"i don't know anything about minmatar ships, so bear with me. i can agree with the naglfar, but i'm unsure of the nidhoggur.you said yourself that compared against a similar ship it lacked in several aspects, but did much better in others. pros v cons, it can't be the same as a compared ship, and excel in other points as well...then people would complain about the other ship being weaker then this one.but still, support for the verticaly challenged."
"i think this thread has 100% support rate"
"1.0"
"a resounding \"no\" to this proposal.though i am a proponent of fw and lived in 0.0 for most of the 8 months, if you want to play with the shiny fw mechanics or even just get regular combat, sorry but get out of your big alliance corps and join the militia./me puts on flame-proof suit."
"yep, just had to pod jump 3 times to my to my old base because i couldn't haul rigged ships.100% support"
"without kugs i would never have found out that t20 had cheated.without kugs i would have never spent an entire xmas trying to placate members of my corp that had to spend their festive period trying to un**** what kugs did.when given the choice i would much rather sacrifice the former so i could avoid the latter.on top of which, ccp don't need to give reasons - it's their game, they can  and state they can in the eula  withold rights to play for whatever reason they choose."
"i support the idea"
"misleading topic title: you only discuss one single ban, your topic title suggests this considers a generic approach to bannings.sadly, it's just an attention seeking post to dig up old drama.the guy acted like an ass to ccp, they have every right to ban him over that.case closed, next.ps. ********** posted on the first page, don't worry torshin, he plays."
"i'd like to hear your opinions about this idea i've put on the f&id forums. regards."
"i would prefer the simple 'carry on training next level' solution, but it's great to see that this issue will be brought to ccp by the csm.except that we end up with a lot of partially trained skills that way.they probably use macros anyway."
"yes, it should be given high priority imho."
"i say no to character grinding. if you set an alarm to get up at the crack of dawn to change a skill, i think you play this game too much. besides i sort of like messing with my eve-mon skill plans to find one so i can be constantly training."
"i agree with a short/limited queue. this would be immensely useful."
"i like the primary/secondary skill idea. support granted"
"well, why not ? i mean, it's not like you have any of those ores in highsec... so what does it matter if veldspar is superseeded by two or even all three of these new ores there ?of course, you can also totally rething ore compositions, not just add three new ones - have veld also carry traces of other things and so on and so forth - basically have all ores carry some traces of a lot of minerals in them.heck, you can have veldspar have 776 trit, 20 pye, 5 mex and 1 iso per refine batch and pyroxeres 564 trit, 20 pye, 80 mex, 1 iso, 9 nocx and 1 zyd for all i care, for instance...basically, the idea should be something like this : * the base values of ores should slowly increase the deeper into lower security rating you go, culminating with highest base value in arkonor* all minerals should be mineable out of \"system-security-specific\"  or very close to system-sec-specific  ore* at least 1/4  of not 1/3 or even 1/2  of the \"region-specific\" mined ore's minerals make-up should be in the 1 mega : 4 zydrine : 16 nocx : 64 iso : 256 mex : 1024 pye : 4096 trit ratios, with the rest 3/4 of it  or 2/3 or even 1/2  concentrated on \"relevant\" mineral type  megacyte in deep 0.0, mix of mega and zydrine in average 0.0, mostly zydrine and some nocx in \"shallow\" 0.0, mostly nox and isogen in low-lowsec, mostly isogen and mex in \"shallow\" lowsec, mostly pyerite in low-highsec and mostly tritanium in highsec * probably most lower-end ore refine batches will have to be increased  in batch cubic meters / number of units required  in order to have the above condition properly fulfilledthat way, you can always use a portion of it in \"local manufacture\"  1/4, 1/3 or even 1/2 of mining yield , while the rest has to be \"exported\".and that, from mining only sec-rating-specific ore.if you mix and match with ore valilabale in higher sec ratings  which you can still find , you should be able to cover most local needs in the deepest 0.0, with minor imports ; the force behind the need to export would be profit, not complete lack of alternatives.as for fw being the \"boost du jour for lowsec\"... meh.it's not much more than mindless fighting. i'd hardly call it a \"boost\", a \"distraction\" at best.at best, it brings people into lowsec... but not to make money there, but rather waste money there.there's no actual boost for lowsec income levels in that - just a boost in lowsec population count."
"as far as i'm concerned moon mining should be dynamic as proposed earlier in the thread. with moons providing a guaranteed income each month without the possiblity of a moon becoming mined out just plays into the hands of the major powers in the game. the rich get richer and the poor have no chance! if after a specified time of mining a moon it becomes empty then the onus is on the people owning that moon to go find another high end moon to mine. ccp done this to a certain degree with static plexes, certain entities would run the static plexes everyday without any problems. as soon as the system became dynamic and the plexes moved around and had to be scanned the system corrected itself over a short period of time. this needs to be done with moon mining! as above, all moons which have been mined for a period of time will run dry and another moon will spawn that mineral. simple and also takes the power away from the power blocks and makes it more accessible to all corps/allainces that spend the time going out and locating the newly spawned moons...moon mining is broken and needs fixing.akita t, i totally agree with the idea of having all asteroids available in all systems across eve, basing the yield amounts on the true sec status of each system. that way the risk/reward is based purely on how far each individual is willing to go.please forgive if not very well written as had rather too many glasses of vino tonight. hope you get the gist of it though."
"dear waristina, thank you for your words.but you're at least the 3rd poster who agrees with me on a particular solution, and i have no idea how manyeth poster who thinks this issue should be addressed by the csm and ccp but forgets to select the \"support\" checkmark in their post."
"is the free market working? of course... are the current prices a natural result of that? yes. the problem is that those results are not good for game play. as it stands, mining anywhere outside of deep 0.0 is less profitable than mining in high sec or doing missions in high sec, and this is contrary to the game design. that this is a natural result of the current state of the game and the free market does not mean that the current state of the game is not broken.the current mineral prices reflect an oversupply/underdemand of the middle tier minerals. the game was designed with a number of different ores that yield an overlapping mix of minerals so that supply and demand will cause price fluctuations which in turn will cause miners to adapt which ores they mine in order to supply the demand. if trit is expensive, people will mine veld to fill the demand. if mex and zyd are expensive, people will mine jaspet and kernite to fill the demand. the problem is that the variety of ores is insufficient to allow miners to adapt to supply the minerals that the market demands. the solution is to either add new ores to allow miners to increase the supply of trit to match the demand, or to allow manufacturers to adapt the demand by relying more on minerals other than trit.the latter would mean adding code and complicating the build system to allow builders to choose to use say, 30% less trit but 20% more pyerite and 10% more mex, but this would involve a good deal of dev work. the simpler solution is to add new ores to low/null sec that supply large amounts of trit, and little to none of the middle tier minerals. this will allow the miners to adjust supply to market conditions and restore low/null sec to its proper place as more profitable than high sec. eventually the prices of mex/iso/nocx will come back up to the point where mining jaspet, hedbergite, and hermorphite and mining in low/null sec will be more profitable than mining veld in high sec again, as they should be. to that end, i propose adding 3 new types of ore:1  spawns in systems 0.2 sec status and less of two of the four empires, on tier with hermorphite and hedbergite. yields 50% more trit than veld, with a touch of zyd.2  spawns in systems 0.2 sec staus and less of the other two empires, on tier with hermorphite and hebergite. yields 50% more trit than veld, with a touch of megacyte   less than the amount of zyd in new ore #1  .3  spawns in 0.0 only on tier with spoudmain. contains 90% as much trit as veld, but also some zyd.4  modify spoudmain to contain 90% as much trit as veld, still with some mega.maybe make all four require deep core mining, as it would be nice to see that skill get some more use, and would provide a bit extra incentive not to shift to these ores.as for the moon minerals, the problem there is far more pronounced. if there are 200 dysprosium moons in the universe all at maxium production, and you need 50 cobalt moons for each dysprosium moon to satisfy the build needs for the maxium production that those 200 dysprosium moons can support, then that means that only 1000 cobalt moons in the universe can be mine before it becomes unprofitable. when there are 10,000 cobalt moons and only 200 dysprosium moons, that will eventually mean that the only moons that are actually profitable to mine are dysprosium. while they should be worth a good deal more, they clearly should not be the only moons worth mining.the two best ideas i have seen to allow the market to resolve this are to either allow small amounts of rare minerals to be mined from all moons, or allow builders to use more common minerals and less rare ones when building things. this would allow market forces to keep rare moons valuable, but most other moons also worth mining."
"i would disagree about the manufacturing part. there is some complication as the the naming, but you just need alternative bpos and the resulting item will reprocess to the original bpo minerals. this will:1. level the mineral market2. create a way to transfer one mineral type into other given some waste and cost"
"don't forget time too, not just cost ; and according to dev hints, the cost will probably be significantly increased in the near future  they plan to make pe levels almost as valuable as me levels, on top of increasing the install cost substantially to promote economies of scale .or at least so they said recently."
"chron was very specific in saying that this is the current plan on the pipeline."
"akita is usually full o guff ; but really its well worth looking at the distrobution of raw materials around new eden. ; i support said guff ; "
"i agree with the content of this thread.some tweaks should be made to the availability of moon materials, and the ore in lowsec in particular needs to be more profitable, as it currently is better to mine veldspar in hi-sec than to venture in lowsec and grab roids there.making all ore available everywhere but in different concentrations is a solution that i haven't heard before that could use some looking into."
"suggestion.change some lower value moons into higher value moons by discovering deposits of highest priced moon mins in them at the same time the low value deposits runs dry."
"i prefer the elasticity solution of allowing varied reactions. ie using twice as much of the low moon mins to make a higher reaction. in this way, when pricing reaches a breaking point. the other bpos become profitable and the market equalizes. also creates more demand for other moons.that and a change into how sov works would solve the moon mins problem imhofor ores, i like the suggestion of just seeding the ores differently around the region, and also removal of mins, particurally high end, in loot drops."
"the schism in roid and moon mineral prices does need serious looking into.it has been hinted that ccp is looking into a revamping of industrial production, which may include a new layer to the construction of ships and modules via tech1 components. through this new construction layer the need of minerals for ships and modules may possibly be rebalanced to place mineral values closer to the original model.as for moon minerals, i am not qualified to suggest a solution as i am only vaguely familiar with the whole process and market in that area."
"i've posted in the faid forum about more dev and other ccp staff involvement in that forum. people are posting here and in egd because dev and other ccp staff responses indicate that they read these forums. faid is sadly lacking in any official responses so it appears to some that they don't bother to read it."
"these other threads also touch on the issue.more dev responses.features and ideas redundancy[issue] assembly hall used in lieu of features and ideas discussionthere are a few others i have seen, too. there are becoming more and more...this is a real big issue."
"if the suggestion is just to remove insurance from concord kills, i'm for it."
"exactly!that's why i dont support the ideayou make ships... you're suppose to sell them to traders who take their time, effort and skills to make money by beating other traders."
"supported.with pure egoistic interest because it gives better chances to me to sell my produced stuff for a little better price. actually the request reduces the possibility of \"market pvp\" a bit regarding the 0.01 undercutting game but i do not participate in it, i place my orders and don't care about them for the next few days.  that's why my sales success is probably quite bad today.  it's a mystery to me how someone can stand this market and order window clickery and should not be happy to see it removed from the game  or at least reduced ."
"yep, especially the mission editor for the following reasons:1 - eve is meant to be player created, no matter how much time ccp put into improving the variety of missions they can not compete with the ingenuity of 100,000+ players.2 - the devs have enough to do as it is, players will pay ccp for the privelige of doing the work and enjoy it too.3 - piracy, people will be creating juicy high sec missions then lying in wait for faction fit ravens. this is nothing different to what happens already only most of the time the pirates won't be there because fw is much better pvp and the pirates have to give something back to the mission runners in the form of missions that are enticingly good fun to fly in a pimped ship.anyways, my 2 isk for what it's worth. 100% support to a topic that has been raised soooo many times something should really be done."
"must admit i fully endorse this thread, precision heavy missiles need to be addressed. sooner rather than later if possible"
"/supported"
"signed."
"yes it's me again.... \"the troll\" as you had named me.i decided to support this idea since i plan to go caldari for hac since i plan to go for ecm after that. so i vote yes cause i am a selfish bastard after all."
"i agree wholeheartedly."
"/signed"
"agree"
"i support this idea."
"this belongs on the top for the damn csm to read and for once try to understand that there actually are caldari pvp'ers as well in this game, and that this would go a long way in actually making caldari missile boats somewhat usefull in gangs"
"kick jade out!"
"luckily i don't play eve anymore. gets a hearty chuckle and my support though. go eve!"
"wrong, this is not democracy.. this is more of a republic...democracy is, votes by the people for the people   not selected few making the votes.. republic is, votes by selected people of the people"
"signed.. i guess requiem will be setting tcf to red now right?"
"more reds please"
"most the standing i have gained are from capturing dungeons unopposed by defending black rise. if fedef pilots came into those sites and killed me  pvp  it is then not to hard for them to defeat the npcs  who have tags worth isk and can be turned in along with lp for things like faction battleships  and hold the site for 20 minutes - which is time enough for me to get a new ship and grab a few friends and try and drive them off the site  pvp . which ever side holds the point for the required amount of time  10-20 minutes  gets a standings increase.the fact that you aren't using the mechanics available isn't ccp's or my fault and your reward is the fact you don't have to pay the weekly cost to maintain the war. if you want standings how about complete actual objectives and not just blob 1 of the many rally points the various militias use.i suspect that the minmatar have quiet a few players with high ranks since they have taken 6 systems, i also suspect there was quiet a bit of pvp going on."
"i agree"
"awesome idea, i hate having to run my fat fingers across f1-f8 every time i want to shoot something, my keyboard is already stained with enough butter and grease as is"
"this should have definitely gotten into the game before overload rack, strange it didnti support any form of better key binding options eaven if it's just an activate rack buttonbuying a g15 keyboard is out of the question because:1. it's ugly and large2. it's not wireless  and i need that 3. i wouldnt use it for anything else than this specific thing on topic here"
"i would like to propose the following feature. players should be allowed to willingly unlearn certain skills. i know it sounds kinda strange, however here is my reason. i have a perfect amarr char, only amarr ship, no industry, nothing unrelated to pvp amarr. recently somehow my little bro was toynig with the game and out of best intetions decided to go to jita and buy and train as many allowed skills as possible. he thought that this will allow the character to expand his capabilities. my skills setup was very nice and clean, only laser guns for instance trained to max, now i have bunch of silly 1 level skills totally unrelated to amarr and totally unrelated to pvp. which just makes the picture incredibly unaesthetic.so here is my suggestion - introduce like a option in char sheet pane, where you can click button \"unlearn\" and willingly get rid of any skill you want. that will automatically adjust amount of sp. i do understand that it may potentially introduce additional hazzard and security issues, hence the feature can be password protected, or protected by any other means like double confirmation for instance. i'm not exactly mad at my bro, cos i know he wantd to do some good. but i would very much like to get rid that stupid small projectiles level 1 skill in my gunnery and such and such.thoughts ?"
"and support !  "
"so let me see if i've got this straight. you allowed your brother full access to your character  and therefore your account  either by logging in and accidentally letting him have access  pure negligence on your part and a probable breach of the eula  or by knowingly allowing him access to your password  a direct eula breach account sharing  either way, i see no reason here to support unnecessary mucking around with the database just so that you can have a neater character sheet.edited to clarify points"
"the problem i have with that is that it leaves people open to character destruction if, say, an angry ex gets onto the account after a nasty breakup. i like the principle, but i'd stick a limit on it similar to the 12-hour timer for character deletion. how about untraining at a rate equal to your training rate? obviously, you'd be able to do it as you trained, but it should be difficult for an unwanted user to ruin a character just like it's difficult for an unwanted user to kill a character.family members know my eve password, because my eve password is the same as my password for a bunch of other stuff. i can't imagine i'm unique in that. i don't think any of them have ever logged in, since none of them know how to play, but they could if they wanted to. assuming perfect security is wholly unrealistic."
"all tru, good reply.on the point of desctruction, there is absolutelly nothing that stops an unwanted unauthorised user to log on and do multiple pod destruction with basic clone. that will have pretty much same effect as unlearning skills. even more that aspect of the game has zero secuirity on that.if you are not objective to this scenario i do not see any reason why you should be objecting ot introduction of \"skill unlearn feature\"."
"a fair point, though that method would take somewhat longer ~3 minutes per podding, assuming you don't have a buddy around in lowsec . my system also deals with accidental misclicks as well - you lose 10 seconds of skill before you fix it, not 2 months."
"1  take this to features and ideas discussion. 2  many others, myself included, have been proposing a system where a skill can be untrained. one of the safeguards was that it will take 30 days for the skill to be actually deleted off a character. and with every log in, the message would pop up - \"mining is scheduled for deletion: 20 days left\" etc, and then, finally, at the end of the 30 day period, you go in and physically click the skills and option pops up \"delete permanently?\" and thats it. anyway, i support this idea, but i will not issue \"thumbs up\" because it needs to go where all ideas supposed to go - features and ideas discussion - not the bloody assembly hall for csm."
"this. listen to the man.also, uhh, extra skills never hurt anybody. don't like that it's messy? beat up your brother for it. it's not ccp's business if you violate the eula which you agreed to.not supported."
": "
"1.0"
"new suicide ganking mechanic. i'm all for that."
"bump"
"mo' f*ckin /signed"
"sounds good."
"looks like a good idea, you've got my support."
"far from it. programaticly, a gate is just a place holder. if player is near thing called gate, player can jump to system x. substitute \"gate\" with \"planet\" and the differences, although they exist, do not require an entire rewrite. would it be a big project, yes, but its scale is anything other than the slant imposed by \"entire\"."
"don't fix something that isn't broke tbh.the way the jumping works isn't broken, other parts of the game are out of wack.i don't see the advantage for this over the current warp/jump system. plus it would be a lot of effort to redesign this. it's not feasable."
"the post i saw was lengthy, detailed, and obviously had a lot of thought put into it. i like this. however, i didn't get to read as much as i'd have liked, because i have a murderously powerful migraine that's keeping me awake tonight.from what i did see, though, the idea is far too much of a departure from what eve currently is to be implemented in anything less than a couple of years. its length implies complexity, and i have to confess that i didn't understand half of what i read  probably due to the migraine  or how it would be implemented. this alone gives me concern - eve's learning curve is high enough as it is without making movement hideously complicated as well.i'm ambivalent about this idea at the moment."
"the idea is massive, really massive. i doubt all things can be incorporated, but, some things can be taken and it will still improve eve in general. i fully support it."
"agreed."
"yeah.. okay.. so we've got like 18 threads about this, including some in the other forum. and there, there's someone complaining that the general discussion forum is getting these, too.we have a major problem with \"omg i has idea\" and it's causing trouble all across the eve forums, not just the assembly hall.the council of stellar management needs to bring this issue to ccp because the problem is beyond the scope of the csm's ability to control it."
"not supported. the op doesn't really provide a thorough, convincing explanation of why the bs sized autocannons are lacking. now a question to the op... do you want everything in this game to be equal? one of the reasons eve is great is because not everything is perfectly balanced! yes, lasers might be better than autocannnons... but have you considered that this is the way it should be? if you want the advantages of lasers, train into amarr. simple as that. if you will get a buff to your autocannons, why shouldn't i get a buff to my missiles? why shouldn't gallente also get a buff? then we will all be equal, balanced, and... boring.eve had many issues, and imbalances since it's release. many of these are still not \"fixed\". i think it's for a reason, and it's a good thing. if the game has endured for so many years, and people are still playing it despite these issues, then apparently people are willing to live with it and take advantage of their race's strong points instead of whining about disadvantages as opposed to other races. why? because not all of these issues are issues. a lot of it is for a reason.if you'd bring up a strong point such as \"minmatar assault ships have only half the armor and damage of amarr ships\" i'd support you, because that would be a huge, completely illogical disadvantage. but saying that minmatar bs sized autocannnons are \"a bit\" lacking when compared to amarr lasers? give me a break man... next thing i know, you'll be asking that minmatar bs is made equal to raven so minmatar can be just as efficient in missions. guess what... you have to train for a raven to have all the advantages of flying one, not ask that these benefits are applied to the ship you currently fly. where some races are lacking in damage or range, they compensate in armor or speed. where some races are speedy or armored, they lack in damage or range. you choose which of the above factors are more important to you. you don't ask to have all of the above.my car might be lacking \"a bit\" in comfort when compared to your car, but i wont complain about it, since my vehicle is faster and more powerful, and you wont complain cause you want the comfort and the smooth ride. catch my drift yet?here you already have an example of how some csms are abusing their power. i cant believe he even had the nerve to bring this up with other people up top before there has even been enough votes supporting him to do so."
"actually, the issue did get approved in a 5/4 vote by the council, it just did not get approved before the deadline for an official response from ccp. if i had brought up this topic one week before, it would have been officially raised and the devs would have done a detailed analysis and stuff for the csm delegates to see, that kind of thing.as for the other guy, who blasted some kind of virulent diarrhea all over this thread about how autocannons are supposed to be worse than lasers and blasters in every situation; you need to get your head checked, because you're a complete nut."
"lol so the elected people chose there own stuff to fix? i want to delte my vote, cuse you all gona fail, if you do it like this.i have never ever beated a skilled minmatar pilot on sissi, never. i wonder why. it must be my perfect gal skills.oh well make sure they are better. good job.runs of to iron a shirt with the ironi"
"i'm not sure if you're referring to me here, but if you are all i said was that the balancing has to be done at the ship level, not at the weapon level. minmatar ships are generally faster than other ships, and as such they need to be worse in other fields to compensate. damage seems a natural candidate. i don't want to see minnie battleships doing 3 dps, but i also don't want to see autocannons doing blaster dps with no cap use on a hull that's twice as fast. both of those are bad situations, i think we can agree."
"i was actually referring to sir ibex, though you're a little bonkers too.the premise that i presented to ccp was that, at the battleship level, autocannons do not have a big enough berth of ranges at which they will out-dps blasters, or that this range is too difficult to maintain given changes such as the hp buff in revelations 1 and the introduction of overheatable webs. took about two minutes, i think. doesn't seem like a harmful thing to say, and if they find that it's not the case after their eventual examination, then they won't change anything."
"why should they out dps blasters?blasters take alot of cap to fire. and only shots therm/kin.while with autocannons you can pick your dam,your boost dont make sense, in any terms, other than to boost minmatar even more."
"please dear council can you ask ccp to provide us with a tick box that switches off all gui window \"snap to\" behaviour."
"agree with several of the points, not all. support to get them all discussed anyway."
"good ideas..."
"theres the drawback i guess....can't be worse than smack ingame - i wouldn't know, never ventured into the dark, dense swamp that caod is..."
"removed. please do not bypass the profanity filter. navigatori can, you fail at forumz.obviously, no support from me."
"yea it is very annoying"
"yeah, and since that's not totally silly how about cages that drop down once the ship enters and some hot in-space agents that float around the outside of the cage with large number cards?oh! oh! how about fw npc corp agents that get in there and smack talk in local while the fighters warm up? and, like, those agents can whack the opposing player over the head with chairs when concord's not looking?oooh! how about big belts for the winning player's ship?yeah! this is cool!"
"this is designed as something to fix 2 problems:1  waiting for 30 minute timers really sucks2  the one enemy in local can get a fight instead of having to wait for a blob to form.fw  aka catch the flag  is so popular because ccp has finally admitted that this is a game and has stopped trying to force pvpers into 0.0 blob warfare. the high risk of loosing vast ammounts of isk by being podded hasn't changed and neither has the amazing economy and diversity in eve, so adding game elements that give people what they want in terms of easy acces to pvp is good.since the release of fw i've very rarely seen gatecamps in low sec other than the militia ones who mostly only fire at other militias, why? because all those bored pvpers now have something to do.more of what fw has done for eve please."
"i would hate to see a forced 1 vs 1. it would take the whole point of eve and throw it out the window."
"im personally not a fan of this idea....introducing a new module to fix a broken type of ship is not how to fix it.....however this seems so far to be the best idea for afs and would add to fw as well.the gist of this:-fix mass/agilitygive ab bonus to get small sig and good competative speed, below that of intie and af with mwd, but being near mwd speeds.have a web resist to the ships i would say 60-80% resist to web effect more than generous"
"good thread, if you love af's please read"
"i want spinners for my omenn!!!!!11"
"rich b*tch, i'm a f*ckin' big tymer./signed"
"not that funny actually. move along"
"locked.lacks content."
"locked.please don't cross-post."
"the minimap  f11  is way underused and a waypoint editor would be the perfect thing to give it some love."
"me! me! me! me! me! me! me! me! actually, i *totally* know the infield fly rule as i used to be a softball umpire  fast and slow-pitch  and before that a player ;-piz"
"i've been playing for 3 years now i would love to see them go.my simple idea was remove advanced skills and add in up to +10 implants.replace all +5 implants with +10 and such so the + 10 isn't more expensive.bam that takes literately 5 months of training time out the window."
"i created this character the other day to just go get the basic pvp skills for tackling and frigate combat stuff, so i got to see the game from the new player perspective again.the 3x skills on my main train about as fast as a 1x skill on this piece of ****.this is the first thing a new player experiences when they come into the game, assuming they have a tutor sitting behind them, telling them what to do, then they know what to train in order to fly x ship and use x module, if they even know what modules to use. which takes a tutor.time and time again i hear from people that tried out eve only to be bored to tears during the first couple days, and then never logged on again. and honestly, why should they? ccp's response to the barrier of entry has always been \"cry more eve is harsh\" and this is to people that have just dipped their toe in the kiddy pool.i don't know the overall metrics of eve, but i've personally tried to get both my brother and a colleague into eve.after i explain learning skills to them, they both decided to take learning skills up first. both lost any excitement they had for eve before they finished learning skills. i even suggested, hey look train a fun skill so you can fly that ship you wanted to, but they insisted to stick with learning skills because its the smart thing to do. they stopped logging in to train their chars so i finished the learning skills for them.told them they're done with the learning skills, and they didn't give a **** anymore. why should they. their new player experience, the important time period where a game makes a lasting first impression on the player, was spent training up learning skills. their lasting impression of eve is yawn.they watch videos of hotdrops and gatecamps and all of the exciting **** that eve has, but thats not what they remember.they remember doing some level 1 missions in a ****ty frigate with ****ty fittings waiting on some boring skills to train.people come up to me while i play eve at work and like what they see. my main can do all kinds of cool ****. cov-ops, recons, passive tank drakes, nano curse, interceptors, a second account with a fleet sniper battleship with excellent skills at it.they want to be a part of it. they ask me to help them get into it. now days, i suggest that they create an account, and let me create and train their character for 2 months before attempting to play. of course none of them follow through with this because its a ridiculous proposition, but one that i believe in. otherwise, they'd probably get bored to death and quit after a day or 2. like that last 2 people i tried to get into eve.to be honest though, eve's new character creation process needs a hell of a lot more than to delete the learning skills from the game.support skills. the skills that effect fitting and capacitor are essentials. these skills, like learning skills, aren't fun, they're just necessary. i can't fit my equipment without these, i can't operate my equipment without those. not to mention they don't make any goddamn sense, but this is internet spaceships.so yeah. there are things that aren't new player friendly. ccp should probably recognize these and do their best to make their game more fun, and focus less on making sure that the player earns that fun.eliminating learning skills would be a start, and proof that ccp actually cares.fake edit: i think you'd see vast improvements to eve if all the devs were forced to delete all of their characters and start as a new player, and make them play alongside someone thats never played eve before."
"stat implants are another thing that hurt the game because it makes people far too careful. all newer players want to have stat implants. obviously you can't sustain that if you keep getting podded, so they are ultra careful. they create carebears.stat implants are a carebear implant. they don't help you in pvp, or help you do anything better. they just make your pod cost millions more than it normally would. and they are very attractive to new players.  and do a great job at making new players avoid pvp the only new players that i've seen approach the game in the correct way are the goons, but thats because they did ccp's job for them and pretty much dictated what to do and what not to do and in what order. like don't use any implants, you're going to die. and educate the player exactly what they are getting into with skill training and learning skills, what to expect, and how to approach it."
"but.. but.. but.. i am entitled to win because i am a human being with emotions and i think its wholesomely unfair that my interests to win are not being addressed. we are all people and we need equal amounts of win time to keep it all fair. to suggest some people can be only winners and some can only be losers breaks the cooperative spirit of game play we should seek to foster within the star cluster."
"when i first started, i didn't really have a mentor telling me what skills to train. i started with the fun stuff, and it was fun. as the time went on, i started wanting to do more, and it was usually along the lines of: \"heck, i need a bit more cpu to be able to use that fitting.\" - \"you do know there is a skill that increases cpu don't you?\" and so on. i have followed that philosophy and still subscribe to it now - even with 35m sps i'm still finding new \"newbie skills\" i have not trained yet, simply because i haven't needed to.as for learning skills, i came across those almost by accident after 5 or 6 monbths of play time. until then i hadn't really appreciated the way in which stats affected training time - i thought you needed them to actually fly better. i started to intersperse them with the fun things - one fun skill, then one learning skill, one fun skill... and so on. and they eventually got done. i saved the higher echelons of those skills for times when i was too busy in rl to log on for any length of time.my point is that as experienced players, we already know the short cuts. however, eve is about discovery. the main barrier for new players in any established mmorpg is the incredibly steep learning curve  i seriously pity any new players starting everquest now, with its 14 expansions  which is a natural process of devs adding cool new stuff. sometimes it's better not to try and tell new players *all* the short cuts, let them ask in their own time. sure, learning skills make them learn skills faster, but if they don't know about them, they won't worry about them.i personally think they should stay. learning skills are only good for the long term player. but you don't get a long term player without letting them get hooked right at the start. if they want to learn fun stuff first, let them, and let them have fun. save the learning skills until they develop the more philosophical long-term view of skill training - i regularly train skills that take several weeks these days  52 skills at level 5 and counting! , when i first started i'd go stir crazy if i even had to wait a couple of days to see a new skill.i have waffled here, for which sorry - but i gotta get ready for work and have no more time to go back and edit for legibility. sorry bout that : "
"qfteve is all about a discovery."
"i understand that some people don't mind learning skills, but its more important than simply saying \"well some people are fine with it, it stays\".some people are fine with it, others hate it and think it ruins the new player experience.thats an easy compromise.those that \"don't mind\" the learning skills wouldn't feel anywhere near as strongly about them being removed as others feel about their current existence.i love them | i like them | i don't care | i don't like them | i hate them | i lost interest because of themhow many people fit into which category? i think you'd find few people who love them, and many who hate them, and im guessing thousands of people that have stopped playing eve due to them ruining their initial eve experience.so for a lot of people its a lot more important than the fact that those of us who play were able to cope.  obviously, cause we play  but then, we're the only ones posting here. you won't see my brother posting here about it.  whome was once very excited about eve, until he started waiting to play the game "
"disagreed. most of people \"don't care\" about learning."
"when i started this game about 1 year ago i was thinking that i probably hate it and i will never return after the trial expiration.well, within 2 days i had signed for a real account. i dealt with the leraning skills a sa feature that in course of time will help me gain some time. but i realised that i wouldn't need to train them too much at the beggining since they don;t count so much if you plan to train the basic skills till lvl 3. so i trained them a bit but i didn't spend my first 2 weeks training only them. you are not oblidged to train the learning skills. i didn't at first and haven't regreted for doing so. but i dealt with them as a cool feature that will help me gain skillpoints faster. nothing more, nothing less.the approach that is a \"must\" to train them and you must not train anything else before train them is not very valid for me. all in all i may have lost about 1 week of training just because i didn't train the learning skills at the very beginning. no big deal.... what matters is that i absolutly enjoyed this game from day 1.i think some people get too obsessed with numbers. you can train all the basic learning skills just to lvl 3 and then train the other basic stuff. it will give you a serious ability boost without wrecking your fun. i don't see what is this whine all about."
"the reason so many people complain about the new character experience now days is very very simple. eve isn't the same as when you all started. oh, you may think its the same, minus a few odds and ends here and there. but really think about it. every new system, every new mechanic, every new ship, every new module. eve tends to progress at a rate faster than any other mmo i can think of, in the area of gameplay mechanics. and it all stacks. everytime they add something, it gets exponentially harder for a new player to actually learn the game.ccp really needs to just stop for a patch. stop putting any new content or mechanics in, and just write an update of nothing but tutorials, explanations, and interactive in game guides. it would do more for their bottom line in subscriber base than any amount of advertising they do.because i really don't think the devs, or any of the old players can really appreciate what the current learning curve of this game is. i've learned languages with less of a learning curve than eve has."
"hi, all, i have an issue that i hope all of you can agree with.can you advocate to have ccp add giant cans and all containers to the list of objects that can be probed.this could happen as a 3-6 month trial.my reasoning is that many isk farmers have \"can fields\" of 20-30 giant cans anchored per system in 0.0. this gives them a permanent base better than a pos as the only way you can discover their can lot is by getting a lucky probe hit on their ship at the cans uncloaked.since we have probes that can catch shuttles and interceptors, it makes sense that probes can also pick up cans.i think allowing cans to be probes will also add a deeper level to 0.0 game play. it will help stop farmers and stop farmers from staying in one system for weeks on end while it 5s just deliver thousands of missiles to them.again, i submit this request respectfully, and i'd appreciate your contributions to reining in farmers in 0.0."
"missiles users can choose which one they want, they dont have to max out all their skills to get what they want.i dont have all the skills but here goesfrom lv1 heavy missiles, to t2 cruise = 37d 16h 31m 29s cost = 9.35millionlv2 large hybrid turrets to t2 large hybrid turrets = 75d 18h 26m 16s cost = 13millionso you have to train twice as long, pay more for the skills aswell, even tho i have less skills in missiles it still takes alot less time to train for t2 missiles.there may be more skills for people to train in missiles but they have a choice in which they want to train, we have to train all of them to get what we want."
"capital guns are the same aswelfrom heavy missiles lv1 to capital missiles = 31d 11h 17m 57s cost = 15.4millionwith less skills to trainheavy turrets lv2 to capital hybrid turrets = 30d 22h 45scost = 15millionwith less skills to train for turrets, it will still take me about the same ammount of time and cost to train for capital turrets."
"csm meeting 6. july 6 2008. 18:00 hours eve time.agenda: announcements: 1. votes from iceland on admin issues. i. alternate service/term limits/alt service does not count against csm 2 term limitii. 5% rule changed to 25% of active voters in previous electioniii. replacement alternates? chair will write to current alternates and ensure they are able to commit to the role. if we need replacements we will table a follow-up proposal. chair will give status update on sunday.iv. electable chair rejected by csm. but clarification, in the future it will be possible for winner of the popular vote to stand down and re-contest if desired. we dont however have the ability to bind future csm councils to this kind of principle. v. general principle that csm has full authority to re-write administrative issues and refine the process to improve csm performance.  re drafting csm document vi. general approval of csm-authored issue templates, the process of presenting issues to ccp accepted by ccp council, csm actions since election supported and endorsed by ccp council.csm raised issues  to be submitted with template to csm mailing list by 18:00 hours friday 4th july. 1. alliancecorps in fw"
"to clarify; each csm sits for a period of only six months and gets three opportunities to put ideas forward to ccp  one in person, two online . as such, it would seem wrong to me for a given issue to keep coming back to the table two or three times during that csm session once it has been reviewed by the csm  and possibly answered by ccp . at best it would get a perfunctory examination on subsequent reviews as \"see discussion last time\" would be the probable answer and, effectively, it would just waste time which could be better served looking at other issues.needless to say, should new information become available on a subject  for example, if it get changed by a patch during the 6-month session period  then of course it would be possible to re-open the discussion, but otherwise \"asked and answered\" should probably be the result.iz"
"that's all well and good, but then i object to the csm members picking up only a tiny portion of an [issue]  like when you decided to only forward a small part of the ui problems to ccp  and then declaring the whole [issue] locked until the next term.you arbitrarily chose to only forward the simplest sup-parts of the ui interface [issue], and now we can't talk about ui issues anymore for 6 months? wtf is that.edit: i think you've all switched from being our representatives to being our moderators, with \"prevent niggling\" as the primary directive."
"what about for issues that weren't addressed in detail in the csm minutes?i saw many issues that some of you cared about, but let slip to the side because others seemed to not care or not take it seriously?we already know that the csm delegates are not an accurate representation of the eve community and rather just a popularity contest, so perhaps the least you guys could do is take the time to read some of the convincing arguments that people present to you.jade you're proven to purposely present skewed descriptions of issue, and others seem utterly apathetic and against the propositions by default if they do not care about them.perhaps rereview the things you guys have already brushed aside on a 'meh and discuss with voice chat the issue and the supporting reasons and theory behind the argument?ccp already voiced they were surprised displeased  with how you guys aren't taking up big issues and ideas. delve down into debate with both the council and the populus.the only time i've seen you guys interested in what the community were was during the elections. i don't see any of you discussing it publicly. you basically just bring up the things that you yourselves are interested in. those are the only issues that have their positions fought for. everything else is just, yeah, whatever."
"which issues are this exactly?"
"the only issues that should be locked are those that have been submitted to ccp... if an issue was voted on  like capitol ships online  but not submitted, it should remain unlocked so pilots can add more information in hopes it will get to the point that it can get a favorable vote. just because an issue was voted down by the csm does not mean it will never get to the point that the csm will see it for the issue it is and vote to submit it to ccp.on the same note, any issue that is updated between meetings with ccp should be eligible for consideration.in both cases, why start a new thread when all the data of the original thread is still just as valid."
"have the csm-ccp meeting minutes been posted?"
"i completely regret wasting my 2 votes on lavista vista cause he promised to pay 1 billion isk per vote and has failed to follow through with his promise.... wait that sounds so much like a politician.. always failing to deliver"
"i voted for lv because no one else running  and even still now that they are elected  had a deep understanding of how important the industrial and market aspect of the game is.no regret"
"i'm actually pretty proud of my candidate. they were one of the three candidates i think acted appropriately during this whole debacle. the others need to learn how to listen when someone else is talking...then speak. not just override everyone else and browbeat them when you don't like what they say. but really did anyone expect anything different. when you get something like this together, there will always be to many egos in the room."
"did jade mute anybody?"
"people are so predictable *sigh*.no, he didn't. nobody got thrown out of an airplane, nobody got into a fist fight either.but a member of the council did turn out to be a ninja and climbed the rooftops of reykjavik."
"photos?"
"the pirates didn't kill the ninja?"
"me! me! me! me! me! me! me! me! actually, i *totally* know the infield fly rule as i used to be a softball umpire  fast and slow-pitch  and before that a player ;-piz"
"muyp"
"this should be implemented asapalso, conspiracy theory coming up, on the house: ccp simply left things this way in order to build up negative tension between players ->more wars and fights->more stuff blown up->more gaming time when the players are patching together their inventory"
"we made it a high priority issue. fingers crossed"
"oh yeah !"
"any chance of linking an issue's template to this thread for people considering making a post? would be useful : "
"there is always a place for industrial espeinage and stolen trade secrets ;- "
"agreed"
"i made a thread addressing our skilling issues here."
"as described in this thread, citadel torpedoes are currently the laughingstock of capital weaponry. when you have the combined firepower of over 6 phoenixes against a titan resulting in less damage than one moros  and not one of the harder hitting ones either , you begin to wonder about all those wasted skillpoints  and the future of the caldari state .this also ties into the naglfar to a lesser extent, since citadels make up half its firepower.proposal: as citadel torps are staggeringly huge, either make them innately much tougher and more resistant to defenders/smartbombs, or add a bonus to that property in siegemode. this would only serve to make phoenixes and naglfars viable for things other than shooting pos structures; no other ships would be affected  well, i guess the leviathan, but srsly...  and no balance would be unduly tipped. i actually hope ccp remediates this of their own accord before this becomes more of an issue; however my respiration is not paused.edit: naglfar; sorry--coming back from a hiatus and had a mental hiccup. dang minnie naming conventions..."
"hmm... okay.i wasn't aware of the issue, but i suppose as a phoenix-capable pilot i really should be. indeed, considering their expense, citadel torpedoes should be nigh-invulnerable to destruction. or, one could make the comparison that fighters are significantly more difficult to kill than tech-1 light drones.extend this to starbase batteries too, though. yeah, i know, nobody uses citadel torpedoes, but half of that could be that a single battleship fitted with smartbombs can protect an entire fleet from missiles.support vote given."
"this killmail illustrates the problem quite nicely:"
"another killmail illustrating the utter ease with which citadel torps are rendered wholly ineffective:"
"ccp will not get any more money from me. i havent renewed any of my accounts and will not !!!!!!!!!!!!"
"in my opinion, zulupark is a complete idiot and should not be employed by ccp. his solution to everything is to nerf. his job should be nerfed.that would be suicide. i'm not sure they won't do something like that, though... they have been getting very good at shooting themselves in the feet.as to the gtc change, i personally own nine accounts. i had been running all of them on 30d gtcs so i could keep tight control over whether and how much i pay ccp. i vary the number of active accounts according to how pleased or ****ed i am with ccp. reducing the money i pay to ccp is one way of forcing a reimbursement denied by a gm, and the reimbursement comes back in rl money as savings in reduced subscription fees.to have all nine accounts active i was paying just under us$135 per month to buy 30d gtcs. at the moment this change became effective and i could no longer buy 30d gtcs i would have had to shell out just under us$300 to keep all the accounts going. uh, no, i don't agree to do that. i let some of my accounts expire and left some expired for about 10 days.now i have switched to cc payment, 30d at a time, and i track the expiry dates as i did with gtcs. when it comes time to reduce the active accounts for whatever reason i will \"cancel\" them.this month i will have all nine active because i just switched to 64-bit xp pro and i want to see whether i can run all nine at the same time. with 32-bit xp pro i could never run more than seven since trinity. in recent days i successfully ran eight, and will activate the last account to test running nine.the recent fix to the cache setting seems to have helped, and with it set to off or none i no longer see the memory usage creeping ever upward. if i can run all nine i will be happy for a while. otherwise, or if ccp ****es me off in some other way, i will reduce the number of active accounts."
"there you have the real reasons in a nutshell. and here we have the marketing crap ccp tells us."
"blargh"
"please count this as 6 thumbs up  2 accounts with alts "
"vote for, those from 0.0 who want to fight in this are already doing it anyway"
"the idea of a single corp within an alliance being able to join a militia is a good idea. it would act as a pr outlet for that alliance and provide a stepping stone between 0.0 and fw.having all the corps in an alliance join fw is the same effect as having the alliance sign up so i'd say no, unless a proviso could be written in to the code that if multiple corps from an alliance wish to join, that alliance must have no sovereignty."
"yeah, i support it.bring the ushra'khan into fw."
"the above quote hopefully outlines the current situation in fw with regards to war declerations and a possible solution.pvp needs to be kept at everybody's foremost thoughts in regards to eve and fw.as it stands non-fw player corps have the ability to declare war on fw corps.however, fw corps are unable to form alliances or ask for aid from other fw corps in their fight for survival, yet the non-fw corp may add more corporations to the war within an alliance.therefore, a simple allowance for fw corps to aid other fw corps at war with non-fw corps free of charge would allow the in game mechanics of eve for fw players to again run smoothly."
"this, i believe, is an acceptable compromise. i think a lot of people are in agreement that there needs to be a change, but there's a lot of ideas on what that change should be. i think this is one of the better changes as it does not upset the way things currently work and simply adds an option for others in the militia./supported"
"obviously i support it but it didn't register my support........"
"i agree, fw corps should be able to get support for wardecs."
"very happy to support this. allows the militia corps better options to defend their allies and widens the sphere of pvp conflict to involve more people. completely in favor and assuming this issue gets a decent number of supports i'll raise it to the csm as an issue for formal voting."
"thi biggest problem i see with allwing corps in militias to be wardec is pretty easy to pick out.... what stops mega alliances from comeing down and killing all fw members... cause lets face facts here milita gangs are nt as well orginized or equiped as alliance gangs. cause we dont have access to 0.0 resouces. nor do we have the ability to have a stable chain of command being most players are in a noob corp. i understand that members of alliance are upset that fw did not include them. but to be honest alliance have enough of eve didicated to there ejoyment and what they want to to in eve. more than half the regions in eve are dedicated to alllowing alliance to create there own empires control there own space and engage in politics with other alliances around them. i think ccp saying if alliances want part of fw they they can disband and join as corps. isnt the answer but really isnt that hard to do.. im sure some of you remember before tha lliance system was in place some how people managed to orginize and do fine withough the alliance system. the right comprimise here is somewhere between not allowing corps in milieas to be wardecd by outside orginizations and keeping people from hideing in milieas to exploit that.now my idea isnt perfect but its an idea in the right direction and im open to honest constructive critisism........ why not put a min vp or kill amount on corps in fw per week so if your corp joins the militia and does notheing to help the war effort after a week or two they shold be made to leave and not allowed back for a week or so. i dont agree with any solution that allowes player alliances any part in fw as is. i believe that they have no place in fw. and i understand there are factin rp alliances and i feel ther pain but if they where true rpers they wouldnt have issue with disbanding there alliance to join the militia  see above about how alliance did work once before without a offical system "
"personally i'd like it to be fleshed out or explained. buy-ins, would they cost any money?it's worth restating what ccp already explained as to consider what basis they had developed them on to suggest changes if necessary."
"as far as i can see it says 'free' and thats what we are voting for"
"i think any system that allows alliance any part in fw is wrong single corps cant claim sov can they? that being said corps in militias should not be imune form wardecs but anyone wishing to wardec a milita corp should be kos to the faction navies of that militia aswell as gang members should be able to assist members of there gang being attacked by war targets that are not militia releated."
"i 100% agree with this. i think the only change that is needed it for when an alliance decs a fw corp then that factions npc navy sets that alliance kos.fair enough?"
"damn i rolled snake eyes on reading comprehension skill test on that one. the mechanics are a bit different with militias are they not? corps can leave them quicker than alliances. make sure it's thought it thoroughly. we already have lots of people moving back and forth between to avoid war decs. i am just saying people could be joining and leaving and joining again to exploit the mechanics. militia members don't have roles. there could be potential for exploitation there. i'll have to look into that and then i can decide on the issue."
"i didn't start the topic for banter but for a solution in a positive direction.we can't have everything and i would personally settle for thisjust because a corp is in fw means they are not immune to aspects of war dec's therefore they should have the ability to aid from other fw corps as the non-fw corp can aid its attack with other non-fw corp.this isn't the end of the problem but will make 'fairer' gameplay."
"i think you need a discussion thread elsewhere nitalya. the op for this thread has proposed a solution and i think that should be basis of dicussion here. by all means come up with another proposal and start your own thread though - but you do risk derailing this one into nothingness if you aren't going to engage with substantive debate on the op.its always best if these assembly hall issue threads stick with the topic in the op."
"i like the idea of being able to opt-in as a participant in a wardec, as long as you are then beholden to the same rules - i.e. you can't opt-out again until the war ends.basically it's like standing up and saying \"no, i'm spartacus!\" and tying your corp to the wardecced corp, so that the wardec now applies to you as well for no additional cost to anyone.edit: oh yeah and i support it."
"the biggest delima i see is a truly balanced system that keeps alliances out of fw. and please understand i get how much this sucks for rp alliances and the like. i would agree to a systme that does not allow corps into the militia before anything that makes it easy for alliances to take part. and not because i hate alliances. i think the best course of action for eve to to have some form of fleet pvp for newer players that does not have influence from outside sources and player politics. and ill explain why...lets say alliance a get involved with amarr factoin well alliance b c d and e hate them for whatever reason so they all get involved with mimitar faction. now you have player politics and 0.0 alliance wars spilling out into empire wars between the npc factions.what about allowing single player corps to wardec corps in the militia without any intervention from concord or faction navy and other milia corps.. but makeing corps in the militia imune to wars from alliances? this seems like a pretty fair comprimise"
"im all for choice and repercussions, so a yes from me.other solutions may be more optimal regarding wardecs imho e.g. being allowed to wardec the whole militia, and only that , but they all create other problems  like mega-alliances hitting fw full-force , while i cant see big drawbacks here."
"pointless suggestion as the possibility is already there.i see no reason why the wardecs for other militia corps should be free."
"silly question...player corp  pc1  in a player alliance  pa1  gets war decced by another player corp  pc2  in another player alliance  pa2 ... what happens to the war dec? is it on the corp or the alliance? can those members of pa1  and pa2  help in the war between pc1 and pc2?it seems that if pc2 can only war dec pa1 and not pc1, or of the war dec is in reality pa2 vs pa1, then the answer is to make the faction militia an \"alliance\" that if you war dec a player corp in it, you war dec the alliance... and pay that cost... you know, the one for a war dec on an alliance with 2 other wars  at least  already."
"nice proposal nvchicky. the militia should be able to help out those corps fighting for the war if they want to.another problem with fw as mentioned by ulstan is that in hisec the fw corp and these friends that would help out are often having to fight npc navy while the wardeccing corp does not. hopefully, someone brighter than myself can think of a way to correct that."
"i think a lot of people would be very happy to be able to wardec the militias. but there are some balance issues. problem is the militia entity is not an alliance - its a different system. ccp specifically wanted to ensure that the militia npc entity was not wardeccable from outside faction warfare - where issues like this thread come from is a problem with corporations affiliating with the militia as corporations. it would be wrong on a fundamental to protect them from wardecs - but should it be easier for their militia corp mates to help them out?i'd say yes. on the proviso it was a system akin to that described in the op."
"i'll vote for support, but ccp will have to look at locking down that war for the helping corp for a certain amount of time, so they can't just join in for some big op and then leave again and be safe.as well as the join/leave militia mechanic."
"i support this, of course.i must add that i seriously wonder why ccp is so silent about that... it is the most called for feature ever in the history of this game and there is virtually no response  except something on the \"drawingboard\" ."
"you don't get the point, sorry.sometimes you need a quick injection of new abilities for some aspect of the game  in my case this was, for example, cybernetics iii . you can't imagine what **** in the *** learning this level of skill was for me.i'm not a nerd, i have a real life as well, this is game i pay for.your suggestion is not helping in any way with stuff like that... i have a lot of skills i can train to level 5, but sometimes it's that annoying 2 - 16 hour skills that are the problem.you fail."
"whoa, seriously, 11 pages, and ccp doesn't have the nerve to even post a \"we'll get back to you\" message?/signed"
"being a relatively new player this is something i'd like input on. be it for or against, i'd like to hear ccp's thoughts on the matter."
"if it's your job to farm characters, you're going to farm characters.not having a skill queue just hurts the casual player./signed"
"get this b***in skill queue setup, best idea ever./signed"
"seriously, it's getting ridiculous now.i log on this game every day, but right now i have a period of 18 hours each day when i cannot log on  due to work & sleep , making training of 6 hour + skills a waste of time. really lame.skill queue, changing skills through this website, anything would do."
"this made me happy. i don't know who first proposed it in the mining mkii thread a long time ago but i can't take credit for thinking of it."
"cost = everything other than conversion waste  i.e. isk for labs/manufacture/time delay etc. :- "
"ah, well, if you use the word \"cost\" to mean that, then yeah, true"
"moar dynamic needed"
"seems like you can escape concord"
"oh why not....does make sense on the insurance payout part of it at least..."
"i agree and hope to see measures taken in a swift manner"
"there should be no insurance payout if a ship is destroyed by concord."
"well make it minimum of 1% of avarage item price. not 0.01 isk. fixed"
"not supported at all.if they want to change the price every 5 minutes, they obviously want it more than you do."
"i don't believe that anyone wants to sit in front of his screen to monitor and modify sell orders every 5 minutes. it's only a compulsion and a spiral of greed and stupid market mechanics. if someone wants to make big money with buy/sell orders he does not want to watch and change the price every 5 minutes but rather he is forced to do so due to the current market system."
"sadly i don't think there are any caldari pvp'ers on the csm. if the nighthawk issue is anything to go by, the csm will just say \"lolcaldari - go pve\" and vote it down."
"hm. on second thought im undecided, what about precision heavy assault missiles then to make it fair?"
"there are no precision rockets or torpedoes, either.quickedit: i'm not saying there should be, i'm merely observing that such a missile class is not present in the other short-range missile classes."
"im not entirely sure, either.but while precision heavies should obviously be fixed, doing only that puts a strong disincentive on using heavy assault launchers.e.g. torpedoes obviously have their own role compared to cruise missiles. with heavy assault missiles i dont see it that clearly.admittedly i have t2 hams trained, in addition to t2 hms, and see myself more or less only using them on hulls which have boni for them already. if precision heavies were fixed i personally wouldnt e.g. ever fit hams on a drake or such. so less variety.heavy missiles and heavy assault missiles are more or less meant to hit cruiser sized targets. now many cruiser sized targets travel quite fast these days, resulting in both missiles types often not being adequate for the task.an increase of both heavy missile types' explosion velocity maybe? plus fixing precision of course. thus a no from me for only fixing precision ones."
"hams grid is a much larger problem than any other stat about them, tbh. the grid they consume just cripples some caldari ships that would be happy to use them.anyways, i would not personally be in favor of a \"precision\" style variant of any t2 unguided missile. its out of flavor and unnecessary. ham drakes can dump 600dps into a target at warp disruption range - all the while being more agile than a harbinger and still sporting a very large buffer tank. the ability to hit distant or fast ships is a worthy trade for the sum odd 25% dps increase from hams. t2 hams also have javelins, which allow them to play the mini-hml game and is in line with the other short range weapon system long range t2 ammo.fixing rage/fury missiles should be done along with fixing all other broken t2 ammo. in the case of precisions, at least, its a normally good ammo thats just ******edly broken at a specific tier."
"i vote to remove jade from his/her spot on csm"
"i vote to remove jade."
"you forgot to check the box.just sayin'."
"vote against removing jade, just to balance out the id... people that are personally insulted for a wardec and don't even understand what this thread is about."
"i predict that in november  when i step down from csm chair at the time of the next election  this thread will have 900 supports and i suspect i could run perma-run my nano-cerb's mwd on power derived from the emo tears expressed by the posters here"
"if i could vote against the idea i would, but i am typing it out here.i am voting against the removal of jade."
"this or go down the drain.thumbs down.yawn."
"i vote for the removal of jade. the recent exploits by sf to try to crap all over fw and deccing only certain militia corps tells me he is not a good representative of the community.his arguments are drivel of words as he tries to confuse you with obscure terms that have no relevance to the discussion. he doesn't listen to anyone that has an opposing view. he just dismisses them as everyone else is wrong and he is righteous and right. this is unacceptable."
"in a position such as chair of a comittee you can hardly please everybody even some of the time.so, if everybody hates you i'd wager you're doing as good a job as can be expected.as a result i lol at this thread, especially as the person who brought it up isn't even on the csm, the members of which should surely feel far more aggrieved and, if they truely do believe that changing the chair is the right course of action, are pretty remiss in their failure to do so without prompting from the forums."
"in my experience jade does two things:1 - talks / types alot.2 - listens and debates based on the facts as presented.but thank god someone has an opinion, hell, where would we be without people who were righteous?"
"some facts to rain on your parade:a  you are the kind of person to scream \"exploit\"  on an alt  when you've been wardecced by another participant in an open pvp game. b  you are the kind of person that never responds to an argument with logic and merely twists and turns and makes insults of your own. c  you are the kind of person that gets upset when i don't afford you the status of other posters that register opinions with their main accounts and keep their temper under control in the course of debates. no \"ayrianna nagaya\" you are unacceptable and your arguments are poor. feel free to a  cry me a river and b  vote for somebody else in the next election. because if i wasn't opposed by people like you i wouldn't be doing my job.and thats the truth of it."
"true words there dianabolic. i was always going to annoy some people with a pro small unit pvp agenda in these elections"
"jade = georgeconstantine = bushdo the math. be smarter than the us, impeach him now."
"/signed"
"vagabond:hull: 70kkrigs: 150kkmodules: 20kkmhm t2 ship is expensive ?:d"
"definitely not signed. insurance needs to be decreased, not increased."
"i've read through this forum, and see valid arguments on both sides of the coin. as to the discussions that t2 ships should not be the standard, or the risk of loosing them should be high, i agree to an extent. but in a game where skill points continue to grow, and characters gain more skills, there is the assumption prompted by the design of the game itself that t2 ships and tech are the natural progression for players graduating to the next level of play in eve.  if you gain skills, and gain isk, then you may buy x as expansive as eve is, other options exist for players to experience the game without flying a t2 ship. lets be realistic, everyone wants to fly the bigger and better ships, and t2 is the next logical step for players after playing the game for a few months. poor insurance coverage for t2 ships may have an adverse effect on some players, encouraging them on one hand to experience the next level of eve, but then destroy their will to play after loosing their ship for whatever reason.also, as the wealth in eve is split between the haves and have-nots in regards to access to valuable resources in 0.0  better belts, better ratting, etc  loosing a t2 ship for someone with access to wealthy resources is a fraction as painful as compared to someone without access to those resources. remember that risk is subjective, and has a different meaning to someone that can make 60 million isk in an hour, and someone that can only make 1 million isk in the same time. insurance should be used to balance this playing field.ive also noticed that an alternative to insurance that i have used, is when a ship is lost, i go buy and sell a gtc to compensate. while it works for me, i see an adverse balance in real world wealth affecting the balance of haves and have-nots. this is a discussion for another thread, but i feel insurance may be used to help balance out of game concerns of gtc. as a casual player, i feel a bit confused. i love eve for how forgiving it is with the real time skill training that allows me to attend conferences, do my work effectively, hang out with family, friends, etc. on the other hand, i am disheartened that eve that allows months of game time work to be lost because of making one mistake. im left with a love-hate relationship with the game and asking myself, is this the right game for a casual player like myself, or isnt it? from my experience, as having lost several billion worth of ships through pvp, mishaps, or power outages, eve doesnt have to go any further to prove its the most serious mmorpg out there in regards to assumed in-game risk on the part of the player. however, i have plenty of risk and challenge in my life, i dont need to experience it in a computer game. does the outlook on my life make me unworthy of flying a t2 ship or graduating to the next level of eve game-play? being a little more forgiving i think, would retain more players that get a taste of \"next level\" and then decide to cancel their accounts in favor of a more forgiving, less intense, game. i also feel that there is a bit of selection bias in who would come here to post on fixing insurance, in two ways. first, obviously i feel that people who have lost a great deal of time and cash invested would want to see amounts increased. second, i feel that players that want the hardcore un-forgiving environment to be maintained. the voice that i feel is not being represented are those ex-players that may have quit eve for greener pastures after having fool-heartedly experienced the end game, and lost invested time for a bad split second decision. i offer a couple of potential scenarios that would resolve the issues as i see them to be:1.  leave insurance as it is, but allow insurance to be gained to cover specific modules/implants, etc. players who knowingly enter into high risk areas/activities have the option to purchase the additional insurance on said items to lessen  not negate  their potential losses.2.  increase pay out amounts of insurance to 60-80% of purchase amount. however, subsequent insurance claims/payouts decrease with each subsequent claim in x time frame. this version of insurance protects the casual player that makes a single bad decision, but minimizes exploitability, and doesnt coddle those that choose to live and die by the sword. 3. some said that the influx of insurance isk would cause inflation. how about increasing intial insurance amounts exponentially, but upon loss of a ship, the player received a new ship in lieu of isk. in closing, i think that a review of insurance is necessary. providing a little bit more in insurance, i think, would help a long way in retaining players, without sacrificing much of the hard core environment that many players enjoy."
"the problem with insurance is that it exists.remove it completely, and then it will be 100% fair."
"no.this is not correct / rp. empire factions consider alliances as dissidents.alliances must be in 0.0, where they fight for their own empire. they don't care about empire factions.factional warfare is a mean for solo players or corps to regroup themselves and have some fun with pvp. giving the ability to alliances  of about, say 2000 people  joining is a non-sense."
"i support this. this was an extremely useful tool and i have mourned its loss since the day it was removed."
"posted the same thing but asking that all 4 of those maps be separated.so maybe if we get tons of threads on it the csm will take it up with ccp."
"bring back the backup sonar display please.endorsed."
"whole ui needs a rework, might as well add this one to the list."
"this not being in the game already is either a major oversight or some crazy technical issue. i hope it's not some crazy technical issue....."
"this topid has been raised alreadythe exact same text was postedno one supported it then, and he brought it here dispite thatyou have been notified"
"trolls go away , away i said you nasty little pests.ok, seriously , anyone else feels like giving constructive comments, support/not support ?"
"this thread doesn't really belong here. it is not an issue in any way likely to gain support from 5% of the eve populace. it is not a fully fleshed out idea, and in fact it doesn't seem to have been discussed in another area prior to now. even if it were, you provided no evidence of such a discussion, so the csm has little to work with. this is not a suggestions forum. it is a forum for presenting pertinent issues to ccp.furthermore, it is an entirely unnecessary addition which solves a problem which is only caused by the convergence of both a eula violation and an anal attitude about your character sheet.i'll share the same sentiment as is stated in marcus gideon's signature."
"it's as fleshed out as it needs to be, and its likelihood of getting enough support is for the op to decide. it's not spam/parody, and it's not unreasonable in any fashion. furthermore, there's no rule anywhere saying that these topics have to be taken up elsewhere before being posted here - in fact, most of the most successful assembly hall threads were posted here without any prior discussion. don't support it if you don't like it, but it's legit."
"yes, it's within limits of the forum rules, but honestly, how many folks are going to hold this up and say \"this is what the csm is for!\" as an example?i'll stop being all anal, but really, let's use the forum for what it's intended for, and the f&i forum for what it's intended for."
"i looked through first 30 pages of ideas section and could not find a related thread, where is it ?"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"uh, no. your unhappy because your skill screen is 'cluttered'???lol"
"what? why unlearn skills at all? just deal with the clutter. you're now more skilled thanks to your brother.i'd be fine with this if we could unlearn then apply that sp to other skills that we would rather have, but i don't think that is going to happen."
"it probably went back to 2005/2006 - thread are auto-locked now. so, create a new one. i am just saying it should to to features and ideas - not that this is bad, on the contrary this is something i would use to rid my character of the 2 industrial skills."
"definitely not supported.only positive is that it could unclutter your skills panel.negatives:-allows destruction of character  minor -destruction of database performance  major  this would either require an extra table to be joined to subtract unlearned skills when calculating your skillset. or it would require deleting from the table of skills you learned. if you are unfamiliar with databases, deleting is almost always bad. allowing deletes can open up security holes. it can create fragmenting in the database. and any loss of the data's history can cause referential integrity problems."
"id say bring the drone bay in line with the normal domi and you have a winner,"
"do want"
"fixededit:link moved"
"all i really want is a light cruiser or battlecruiser with an astrometrics bonus. it could have less damage and tank than most other ships of its class, but still enough so that it's not completely useless in clearing the sites it discovers."
"a tech2 hurricane is pure sex! i would start training for exploration to fly that!"
"yeah, great idea.and lets call the gallente one \"galaxy\".  remember, the star trek vessel \"enterprise\" is an exploration ship and rather king sized as well... those guys were wise, they knew that exploration requires a great deal of onboard resources ."
"want single player then dont play mmo games. go install one and do there."
"/bump"
"lasers need to have lowered power grid usage. they take way too much powergrid.lets see looking at standard rat killing setups:[abaddon, rat]armor em hardener iiarmor thermic hardener iiarmor thermic hardener iilarge armor repairer iiheat sink iiheat sink iireactor control unit iicap recharger iicap recharger iicap recharger iicap recharger iitachyon modulated energy beam i, multifrequency ltachyon modulated energy beam i, multifrequency ltachyon modulated energy beam i, multifrequency ltachyon modulated energy beam i, multifrequency ltachyon modulated energy beam i, multifrequency ltachyon modulated energy beam i, multifrequency ltachyon modulated energy beam i, multifrequency ltachyon modulated energy beam i, multifrequency lcapacitor control circuit icapacitor control circuit icapacitor control circuit i671dps with no drones. need one rcu. it shouldnt need any rcu for setup like this.[abaddon, rat]armor em hardener iiarmor thermic hardener iiarmor thermic hardener iilarge armor repairer iiheat sink iireactor control unit iireactor control unit iicap recharger iicap recharger iicap recharger iicap recharger iitachyon beam laser ii, multifrequency ltachyon beam laser ii, multifrequency ltachyon beam laser ii, multifrequency ltachyon beam laser ii, multifrequency ltachyon beam laser ii, multifrequency ltachyon beam laser ii, multifrequency ltachyon beam laser ii, multifrequency ltachyon beam laser ii, multifrequency lcapacitor control circuit icapacitor control circuit icapacitor control circuit i617 dps without drones. need 2 rcu. in my opinion it should fit with power grid +5% implant max.higher damage than other races is compoensated by enormous capacitator usage. it shouldnt be big power grid panelty also.pvp setups are kind diffrent in fitting. there you get cap booster and mwd that will eat cap freed by beams to pulses.medium pulse lasers and beam have same issue like large beams. it must be looked at.used multifreq to show diffrence normally you will use longer range ammo anyway."
"this is very annoying.we are adult people here, we don't need safeguards  and yeah, i used that word intentionally  against \"zomg politically incorrect words! thou shaltst not let a witch live!\".btw, remember the \"damnation\" - wordfilter - issue? my collegues at work laughed their ***** off when i showed them that. so, we are adult people. give us freedom of speech, expression and vocabulary. thanks."
"i remember in uo the massive on weapons would be filtered."
"isn't there an 'off' switch somewhere"
"check the box then silly :p"
"oh, shiny."
"i would like to propose the following modification to the generic \"empire channels\" i.e. \"minmatar\", \"amarr\", \"gallente\" and \"caldari\".put in an motd with a link to the rp corporation shortlist so that more people know it's there."
"and what about linking that thing with the \"bounty office\" ? making contracts for destruction, etc."
"/signed"
"/signed.my god. what a shocker to see my precious helios transformed to a garbage truck. please change it back."
"/signedi want my *real* helios damnit!! who was the funny guy who made this awful change??i'm sure he does not play gallente... ebil dog..."
"imicus lookes like it's already krashed or something, maulus hull helios was much better"
"new model is no good.whoever decided that a lack of symmetry is a good idea for anything needs to be slapped. with a nailbat preferably."
"any thoughts or opinions on the current reimbursement percentages of insurance coverage for ships. i feel that the amount insurance pays when a ship is lost is out of tune with the actual value and cost of ships. anyone agree or disagree? any thoughts on impact to economy if paid insurance amounts were increased, is it even possible, is it wanted, etc.also, is it possible for insurance to cover items other than ships...expensive modules, implants, etc?thanks in advance for discussion on this, and if a previous thread exists, i apologize.thanks"
"well buy command ship for 150mln and you will get max 20mln from insurence :d. forget about fitting also."
"insurance should be about market price, fluctuating with the market situation.this should also cover t2.modules... hm... dunno."
"i've discussed my thoughts on this here - put simply, market-based insurance for everything."
"i assume this is a request for _lowering_ insurance payout, as anything else would be pretty braindead as a suggestion."
"i do not feel t2 ships should be fully covered or eve mostly covered. correct me if im wrong but insurance is based upon actual build material costs. this is pretty agreeable with t1 ships across the board  being able to fit and insure a domi with only a few million isk loss is proof , the only think left is t2. one of the purposes of t2 is the elevated risk in flying it. but you cant have insurance cover a t2 ship otherwise people could invent, insure, self-destruct, repeat, and make billions. however if material build cost is drastically different then insurance, maybe ccp should take a gander at it. however i personally think there are many more important issues they should address first. even when a cerberus was 3x what it costs now, people agreed with this approach."
"why not just make everything free..............the idea of some insurance for your ship means you don't loose everything, if you can't afford to loose it then don't fly it."
"thanks for pointing me to the correct thread, moving my thoughts there."
"market based insurance - i.e. if you can build an insurable item, you can generate infinite free isk! 1  i build a zealot2  i sell it for the billion or so i have in the wallet, to my alt. its easy, because nobody else is stupid enough to buy it. 3  i now insure it for like... 300m, thats roughly what the platinum cost would be4  i blow it up, i now have 700m, and obviously, the billion in my alts wallet.5  repeat6  ???7  profit.any situation which takes average market prices, instead of specifics, obviously leaves it open to massive manipulation effects, as well as the fact that everyone would fly their gear to syndicate to insure and blow it up for free isk, as there's loads of stations with bugger all on the market. can you see now why t2 insuring for what it costs would be bad? insurance needs to be decreased or at the least, stay as it is. we dont need even safer pvp."
"buy 2 ships.insure one ship.other ship:place on market for 10bil isk.buy your ship.place on market for 10bil isk.buy your ship.place on market for 10bil isk.buy your ship.place on market for 10bil isk.........buy your ship.self destruct other ship.get rich."
"too unfortunate that drones don't make that much damage to begin with."
"as the op said, currently drone ships lack two things that give conventional-weapon ships the advantage: damage mods and implants. yes, dedicated drone ships can get massive damage bonuses, however drones are fairly weak to begin with and utility drones dont take advantage of any of those bonuses. what drone ships need:high-slot damage mod that uses hardpoints  trade guns/launchers for drone damage drone rigs that arent useless  trading in cpu in massive quantities = no no drone implants to help with speed and durabilitymore drone space  drone ships are easily cripped by smartbombs and other drones "
"want some cheese with this whine? stfu. it's a game, not reality or your mom's house."
"isn't it a bit unfair for those of use who like to use turrets, either becasue of their race or weopon preferances, have to wait so long to get t2 turrets.those that use missiles can just train for one class of missiles, for instance cruise, and not have to train anythingthing but that skill an the specialisation skill for that class.while those that use turrets have to train all the other turret skills, for instance large turrets, they have to train all the skills for them to lv5 and their specilisation skill for all the different sizes of turret before them to lv4 aswell to get the t2 they want.this makes it almost twice aslong to train for the t2 turrets than it would for someone to train for t2 nissiles.shouldnt it be made more even, so that it takes a equal amount of time for both.i think either make it so you dont have to train all those skills for the t2 turrets or make it so those who use missiles have to train more for their t2 missiles, instead of being prejidice agasint those that use turrets or those that dont choose caldari.agreed. tech 2 weaponry is essential for fleet sniping, and it currently takes way too long, imo.suggestion made by: tzujeihmy obvious suggestion below.large t2 shortrange weapon specialization prereqs:large weapon turret vmotion prediction vgunnery vlarge t2 longrange weapon specialization prereqs:large weapon turret vsharpshooter vgunnery vmedium t2 shortrange weapon specialization prereqs:medium weapon turret vmotion prediction ivgunnery vmedium t2 longrange weapon specialization prereqs:medium weapon turret vsharpshooter ivgunnery vsmall t2 shortrange weapon specialization prereqs:small weapon turret vmotion prediction iiigunnery vsmall t2 longrange weapon specialization prereqs:small weapon turret vsharpshooter iiigunnery v"
"t2 weaponry is not essential for a sniping fleet. it is a simply \"preferred\" that all ships be t2 fit. now if you can't get it into your thick skull to quit messing with the game  far to much in my opinion , then go back to your mom's basement. real men play here. boys play over in wow."
"i don't see anything wrong with the training times. sure you can be using tii cruise missiles before tii large lasers, but you have to train both torps and cruise missiles to v in order to use both tech ii short and long range missile options, as opposed to both long and short range turret options being opened with large energy turret to v. this means that it actually takes a little bit longer to 'max out' missiles than gunnery. and given that gunnery tends to be more highly regarded for pvp, i'm not too unhappy with the longer training times for tech ii large guns."
"in addition, t2 turrets are alot better than t2 missiles, and all the skills you get to buff 1 type of turret buff another type if not all types of turrets, where as missile are not that way, and require essentially the exact same training."
"hello all,issue 1: wardecs => issue #2: militia leadership =>issue #3: pvp point system =>final note - ccp you are on to something with fw. its a whole new and wonderful dynamic to eve. it just seems in a few areas which are easily overlooked need to be discussed and hopefully addressed."
"eve is a not very new player friendly game and the fastest way to learn eve is joining a corp with expirienced players. i suggest that corps that excel at training new players should be rewarded. concrete suggestions:how good is a corp at training newbs?an anonymous questionnaire of the trained newbs could be thebasis for a ranking.what reward? something like between 1 and 10 mil/week per newb dependingon the ranking. additional the corps could gain standing improvents to the fraction of the newb or the galactic department of education <-  could have some cool and cheap training ships *g . exploits? if a newb is defined by the age of his account  maybe 6 month  there would notbe much room for exploits, right?"
"i have full support for the majority of the initiatives in the real space initiative. for those concerned about a major programming change, it would be mostly to front-end, as i understand the majority of the backend could be implemented through existing mechanics. obviously we as the playerbase would need to adapt, but amongst other things i believe some of the ideas in the rsi would seriously help enforce the idea of huge, cold, dark, empty, and more dark space :dremember, not all the ideas need to be implemented at the same time, it could be a staggered approach over 12-18 months, culminating in the \"collapse\" of the gate network and the introduction of navbeeks."
"agreed, more guidelines on what to do and where would be good. we see suggestions in gd, f&i, and here, people can't find them so make new ones, and all in all it gets a bit messy.i mean, how many 'can we please make bpcs different to bpos' threads have we had, despite it being stickied in f&i?"
"i disagree. it doesn't really matter where discussion happens, as long as discussion happens. thats the entire point of a forum in the first place. to talk about stuff. some things may not technically belong in the area its being posted in.. but if its getting real traffic, and real discussion by the people who frequent that forum over another... i say let it be. it simply doesn't matter.so some of the stuff that ends up here may end up being half baked lame brain ideas, that whomever posted hasn't completely thought out. welp, you gotta take the good with the bad. you can't have an open discussion about an issue, if you start censoring about where or how its talked about.besides, read some of the most discussed items on this, or any other forum. no matter how well thought out an idea, or how good of an idea it may be. it about 3-4 pages in, it stops being about the idea itself, but instead about the politics of the idea, and how people \"feel\" about the idea. all reasonable discussion simply breaks down. if we're all willing to read all that, which most of us do on the off chance some nugget of genius is contributed; well, i think we can all live with reading some of the more out there ideas that end up on this forum. who knows, if you change it a little.. you could keep to the spirit of the idea, and end up with something completely new and good."
"hello there,i read somewhere that the csm was lacking issues from pirates. well ill try and do my best at explaining something i have been thinking a bit about.1. imo it should be possible to get a systems sec changed, as in why does a 0.4 system get to keep its sec rating when a lot of kills happens in that system. there should be a way of getting the system bumped down if enough kills happens in target system pr day or something like it. still the limit should be that systems clasified as low-sec should still not be able to go lower than 0.1 or higher than 0.4 - basicly the idea is based on that you have certain limitations in 0.4 eventhou its still clasified as low-sec.if it was possible to bump the system security down it would actually make us pirates feel like were doing something  on a larger scale . some are prolly gonna say, \"go to 0.0 and get sov\" - but thats not what were talking about here.2. why does there need to be limitations of a 0.4 - its not like its more secure than a .3 or lower ?if i sound confusing, which im know by friends to do, then please ask constructive questions and ill try and answer the best i can.im also hoping that a csm will take this up and prove that you are listening to all players of the game : "
"yea, can we have some semblance of order - ever? i mean yea, there are some ideas that were migrated from the features and ideas discussion forum to the assembly hall because they were fairly important parts of the game-play, like the pos dead horse issue. csm should address issues and ideas that impact an extremely large population or at least a significant aspects of the game. better yet, give features and ideas discussion forum the \"thumbs up\"/\"thumbs down\" feature so the assembly hall is not used as a substitute of popularity. we need some sort of moderation to clean this place up."
"i don't really think the two are comparable. the sort of thing the csm were talking about  if i remember correctly  isn't really possible at all the way things work now, which means it would pretty much require creating a new role to accomplish.a solo exploration ship like you're talking about is just putting two existing roles together. the problem is that combining those roles sort of defeats the purpose of having separate roles in the first place, which is to encourage group participation. it also circumvents the tradeoff that every other person making money in 0.0 has to deal with; specifically that you need to either spend a lot of effort, have some friends, or have proper 0.0 infrastructure  poses or outposts, mainly  in order to make money effectively in 0.0. i expect you'd get the same response if you wanted a combned mining/ratting/hauling ship.i read through the last thread, and it seemed like there wasn't much reason for why such a ship was needed rather than just wanted. if there's a better reason out there than \"i should be able to do anything in the game solo\" and \"why do you hate my playstyle?\" out there, i would think that either the csm or ccp would listen."
"popoi, i really don't see how a solo exploration ship makes exploring in 0.0 easy or risk-free? that doesn't make any sense to me. you are flying a large, bulky pve vessel into enemy territory, without any scouting.the reason for it is very simple: it would provide a _fun_ way to make some isk that at the same time requires a considerable risk, providing new targets to pirates. the current common methods of doing exploration resemble farming just like every other isk making activity and require far less risk than they do grinding. the most common solution to requiring different roles sadly isn't teamwork, but staying local and reaping the same systems over and over  and/or alts . give me a ship that is good enough to discover and complete exploration sites that are at least considerably more valuable than what you could find in high-sec, and i will gladly take the risk. it still wouldn't be nearly as efficient as having safe access to 0.0 and the ability to farm the most valuable sites in your parked battleship. it shouldn't be more efficient than good teamwork either.would it really be so bad to give us one alternative to l4 grinding or hulk mining that actually incites us to move and take a risk?right now there is just nothing in the game i really enjoy doing on a regular basis, so most of the time i am just not playing. this would be one thing i could get excited about  bounty hunting is another . i don't care for the rewards, they just have to be potentially high enough that the activity doesn't feel completely meaningless  compared to much safer and easier activities, like exploring in high-sec ."
"its hard to argue a need to do anything solo. of course there is no need. i could do missions in a perma-tank raven in motsu. and travel a massive one jump back to my salvage boat in order to loot and salvage.the playstyle of solo exploration already exists. it may not be intended, im not sure, as it involves the player being tethered to a station. its a lot like a yo-yo and makes what could potentially be an awesome solo experience into a grind.the ships that would be 'combining roles of would be part recon, part covops, and part industrial.the standard lowsec/0.0 exploration tools of the trade are a cov-ops and pilgrim.you go out god-knows-how-many-jumps in your cov-ops until you find something soloable, usually hacking and arch/salvage sites. then you travel god-knows-how-many-jumps back to your pilgrim, then travel god-knows-how-many-jumps back to the site, do the site, then travel god-knows-how-many-jumps back to your cov-ops.the sites i'm talking about aren't difficult. it doesn't take a bc or battleship. you can easily do them in tech 1 cruisers or afs. the pilgrim isn't some massive damage dealer, its a vexor with a cloak.so the combining of roles isn't so true. if you were to take the pilgrim, and replace the tracking disrupter and neut/nos bonuses with 10% cargo capacity and 10% exploration probe time bonuses, you'd have a great exploration ship. it wouldn't be able to solo everything, but for the stuff that is soloable, it could do that well enough without having to yo-yo so many jumps.to be clear it is the yo-yo'ing of solo exploration that ruins it for me. like others have said i don't need the fat loots, i don't even care if it isn't more profitable than missioning in motsu. with all of the traveling involved, it definitely isn't. and even without yo-yoing, mission running is probably on average higher because a lot of the stuff isn't selling so well anymore."
"oh god why? is it just the covops cloak? why not just a ratting bs that has better dps, far better tank, and is actually insurable?there's no reason to do this one at a time. a much better method would be to probe out a bunch of stuff, then come back sometime within the next 3 days and run them all at once. of course, that's rough on a cruiser hull's cargo bay, which creates even further mystery around using a pilgrim.i can't remember ever running a 0.0 exploration site that wouldn't have melted a cruiser  except maybe a hac  in short order. i guess you could do it against serpentis or bloods?so basically if you took a combat ship, made it slightly worse at combat, then made it equally as good as the best probing ship at probing, it would be fine? you're right, that doesn't sound like combining roles at all, it's just putting a combat ship into a role that's notorious for having no combat ability at all. i suspect there's a reason beyond simple inertia that ccp hasn't released a combat-capable astrometrics ship.i should point out that it is entirely possible to fit a ship  bigger than a cruiser, at least  that can probe and tank. it took me about 10 seconds to modify my dominix fitting to do so. it's going to be pretty bad at probing, since it's not an astrometrics ship, but it prevents yo-yoing, and it satisfies both roles required for exploration, just not as well as two specialized ships would."
"yes a combat cruiser with an exploration-only probe bonus, not recon probe bonus.exploration didn't exist when either role was created. exploration was not a consideration at all.ccp overlooks things and makes mistakes. do not take the self-assuming argument of \"it is so, therefore it is intended\". you don't know that.also, i know the pilgrim isn't some beast of a ship, its simply enough to get the job done. yes the cov-ops cloak is the most important part. you'd be surprised how popular heavy dictors are in lowsec gatecamps, by far more risky than some battlecruiser rats. as i said you can do them in a vexor, they don't take much, they are just too much for a cov-ops to tank.neither am i saying it isn't possible to solo right now. i've clearly stated that it is possible to solo them right now. you could do it with a non-astrometrics ship or by yo-yo'ing.a new ship class will always be both a lazy and greedy request.do not fool yourselves into thinking otherwise.both marauders and black ops were wanted by someone that somebody else would consider lazy and greedy.yes its a greedy and lazy request. as will be every single thing the csm ever requests.no matter what the issue is, you will never find it undeniably necessary. every single addition and change eve has ever gone through has faced opposition.remote dddno stacking penaltiesweak concordgang-invite gankingeverything. none of it was necessary.exploration ships aren't necessary. nothing will ever be.an exploration ship will simply improve the experience of solo explorers.an exploration ship would not worsen the experience of anybody.that is all you really need to look at. leave the rest up to ccp to decide."
"you know, after all the whining i have seen on this forum, i have to say this actually is a valid point. and to the ****** who said slaves don't work on capitals, tell that to my superior armour on my nid with my hg slave set"
"while i stand in agreement that farmers must go, your idea needs to be flushed down the nearest toilet, burned, then thrown into outer space! adding cans to the list of stuff to probe is going too far. it's a can. obviously if you fail at scanning, adding one more thing to scan for is not going to make you better.now please for the love of god almighty, stop with the nerf this, patch that **** on the forums. thank you"
"i agree with the op, all cans should be probable."
"agreed. tech 2 weaponry is essential for fleet sniping, and it currently takes way too long, imo.my obvious suggestion below.large t2 shortrange weapon specialization prereqs:large weapon turret vmotion prediction vgunnery vlarge t2 longrange weapon specialization prereqs:large weapon turret vsharpshooter vgunnery vmedium t2 shortrange weapon specialization prereqs:medium weapon turret vmotion prediction ivgunnery vmedium t2 longrange weapon specialization prereqs:medium weapon turret vsharpshooter ivgunnery vsmall t2 shortrange weapon specialization prereqs:small weapon turret vmotion prediction iiigunnery vsmall t2 longrange weapon specialization prereqs:small weapon turret vsharpshooter iiigunnery v"
"i was specifically disturbed by the utter lack of concern for explorers when you guys discussed the exploration ship idea.some sites aren't solo content like unknown and gas cloud sites, but others are. i solo hacking and archeology sites in my buzzard and pilgrim. they're definitely soloable, its just the traveling part that is annoying. an exploration ship would help this playstyle.but none of you play this way so nobody cared, but voted against it anyways."
"so our csm's became what? our player owned ccp puppets? **** the travesty this is becoming"
"i have absolutely *no* intention of not considering  and forwarding  further ui issues! i *want* them - indeed i've asked for them on the forums so that they can be put forward. the ui makes the most difference to the most players because it is something that we use every single minute that we are piloting in new eden.ui issues, indeed *no* issues other than those explicitly already covered, should be considered 'locked' until the end of the csm term, and that is not what i was suggesting. this is about things which have been discussed by the csm and either put to ccp or where the csm decided it could not support the idea in the best interests of the majority of players. there have also been issues which we needed and sought further information about  capital ships, etc  which will be on-going.iz"
"so who's to decide that an issue is identical to one that was already discussed ?because, see, we are gamers, you are gamers, and we all know how gamers think. so if someone really ever feels the need to bring up an issue for review a second or even third time, we all know how the argument will roughly be going: 'no, last time we discussed changing amarr battleship color to blue, that's not the same as discussing changing it to light blue, because 'blue'<>'light blue' q.e.d.\". now exchange that silly example for a more serious issue, and it might in some cases really become difficult to decide. and taken to the other extreme, it leaves room for abuse too: \"this is market stuff again. we already discussed some market issues once, and this is just different market issues, so as far as i'm concerned, the same boring stuff. next issue please.\"the 'acting chair' obviously cannot be the one to make that decision, as he is likely the one bringing up the repeat issue. so force the 'real chair' to decide ? sorry, but i'd kindly ask you to rather minimize the opportunity for further 'whaaa, whaaa, jade did bad things to me' type of drama. that doesn't look like a productive use of council time really.the most reasonable way would surely be a quick vote. if somebody thinks that an issue is a repeat, the rest of the council votes wether or not they agree to delete it from the agenda. of course, they could just as well vote down the issue itself then, stating that they do so because they think it's already been discussed before - in which case you don't need any special rule at all.if the majority of the council doesn't want to raise an issue again, they can easily vote it down. if the majority however wants to bring it up again, i don't see any harm in letting them. and considering issues that repeatedly receive the neccesary percentage of voter support, a rule not only allowing but even forcing the council to ignore such a large part of the people they should represent seems pretty ridiculous to me.maybe it would help if you could give an example of the kind of issue this rule should be targeting. anything voted on so far that you feel needs to be prevented from being brought up again, or anything on the horizon that you think the council will get 'spammed' with ? maybe a better wording for the rule could be found if you could make clearer what it should actually be good for."
"i am assuming that i am probably completely daft, however i have seen several threads where people talk about how they have read discussions on their issues and were happy or unhappy about it. i see the csm->meeting minutes section on the website here, however, i do not see the ones from the trip to iceland? we even appear to have minutes from a meeting after that one, but where did it go?am i missing something? are these out there and i just can't find them?"
"there's still missing 3 of the initial minutes that were submitted before the trip to iceland.but from what i can see, there was a small delay on the minutes from iceland due to ankh having some rl trouble  . but the minutes are being looked trough on our internal mailinglist to make sure nothing was missed. hopefully we will send it off to ccp soon."
"there is a post on the scrapheap forums about the iceland meeting which jade, hardin and others have posted to. i know jade has posted a link but i don't know what it was..."
"seeing as darius and bane are the only delegates who aren't carebears, im pretty satisfied.also, im not gay or anything, but bane is the hottest of the bunch."
"no, cause i voted canadian!!!! yeah to the dude who was running for csm from canada!canadians know how it's done."
"i actually forgot who i voted for, but to be fair, it doesn't really matter who i did vote for, it only mattered when i was taking that vote. the voting is in essence a tool to get a diverse as possible group together that can address more then just one single issue. if all csm members came from the same type of players, pvpers, miners, traders, rpers, possers, you name it, i would have been sorely dissapointed. but so far i'm seeing lots of different issues and problems being pointed out, so i'm happy with whoever got my vote again.no if only one of those csm personalities would be so kind to champion the af cause i'd be completely happy"
"a similar idea would be to use the idea of actual assets to determine wardec cost. assets could be members, isk, controlled space, whatever. the difference in \"assets\" between the wardec corp/alliance and the target alliance/corp would determine the cost. a larger alliance declaring war on a small one would cost a lot of money, while small against large would be significantly less.another method for fixing the \"endless\" war issue is attrition. the longer you are at war with someone the more it costs. keep the current \"more people = more money\" in place, however for each consecutive week the war continues it would double in cost. this way it becomes prohibitively expensive to prevent a war against you, and it also keeps a person from declaring war on you for too long. furthermore, after a war is over, there is a cool-down timer on the cost: after a week, the wardec cost gets cut in half continually until it is back down to the original price. that should keep wardecs from pausing then reactivating for base price, and give a bit of cool-down on the psuedo-invulnerability."
"disclaimer - i am not a pvper, so i'm posting here as an outside observer looking in. i'm an empire-hugger and i'm just going by what people are posting, here & elsewhere.if 0.0 pvp consists of blob and pos warfare, and empire pvp consists of experienced pirates deccing relatively defenceless empire carebear corps just to get something to shoot at ... then it looks to me that there is something inherently broken not with war decs, but with pvp in general. what's left? low sec & fw? from what i understand that's turning into a nice pretty blob-fest as well.if people are really so desperate to find pvp in what is well-advertised as a pvp game... then there is something badly wrong with the mechanisms in game that allow pvp to happen. i'm posting on an alt here because my main is in a deccable corp and as my response to a war dec is 1  to go away and cry a bit, and then 2  sit in station training skills until the nasty people go away, and i don't want someone to spend a couple mil to grief me :  yes i'm spineless, and i like being an invertebrate."
"hows about a compromise.-wardeccing doesn't raise in cost by number of wardecs.and-wardeccing somebody lets anyone shoot you anywhere legally.  if it isn't consentual so it'd be like you bribing concord to not stop you from shooting corp x, but at the same time they cease defending you entirely.wardec is an act of aggression and should have unforgiving consequences imo."
"according to what jade wrote on the scrapheap thread ccp prefers we all pay with credit cards directly to them. they recognize some people want to pay isk for their monthly game and have the gtc option open, but that as eve is a premium game, they believe their customers understand a premium is warranted  paraphrasing ."
"its fine with me. for every pubby that likes to ****-talk about goons as if we're all remedial, theres 5000 people that will shoot you ingame, and never vote for you.jade is a douche."
"i don't care if someone insults goons or goonswarm as an entity at all. it's amusing on so many different levels. however, lumping thousands of people together in real life and declaring you hate every last one of those people because they hail from a particular, fictional internet spaceship guild is just childish and moronic no matter how you cut it. whatever your affiliation may be, the csm is a real life entity, and your eve corp/alliance is not. even the conversations you have with characters in-game should be taken with a grain of salt. one can only hope people see the difference there and act accordingly.however, seeing as how jade responds with what amounts to role-playing, in-game rubbish every time someone mentions a goon, i think my trust is likely misplaced. someone asks him a csm question and he invariably responds with irrelevant bs about 0.0 politics or \"goon alts\". please. step one of being an effective chair would be to separate reality from fiction. after that, you're on your own. ccp obviously isn't going to provide you with any help."
"having read some of the feedback from recent meetings and the csm visit to iceland, i have to give most hearty congratulations to the entire csm.you folks did the eve community proud. you've represented, brought feedback and your work will make our little virtual world a better place.thank you - and congratulations on a job very well done!"
"there has been a lot of discussion over the csm, its effectiveness, professionalism etc. i think the following quote from the new york times article really says it all:i have to tell you that i have been involved in e.u. meetings where the participants were not as prepared and professional as what weve seen here, he said, referring to the european union. these players have approached this meeting with what seems like real understanding of their roles. they are not just fighting for their particular interests but seem to be very socially responsible in wanting to represent all the players of eve. perhaps some real-world politicians could learn from them.a statement like that from a professional? all i can say is that i'm glad to have these folks representing us.i'll say it again  and hopefully not for the last time  great job csm!"
"in game we earn each other's hate and respect through competition on all levels.irl we are all eve players, and have much more in common than people will usually consider.i'd liken the csm more to a collection of sports players that were nominated and voted on by their peer ball players.on the field, they are enemies, and will do anything to defeat the other team. who you are off the field is up to the individual. i've faith in the professionalism of all of the csm delegates now that they've met irl. now maybe they can discuss the issues in an off-the-field manner instead of in-game enemies."
"any1 no wat happened with this topic that was made i no csm said ccp was making a topic about it soon but that was like 3-4 weeks ago right? any1 no wether they have changed it to normal again or r they keeping it like this?"
"as i understand it  from a post jade made  ccp is replacing the gtc's of various values  30, 50, 90 and 100 days  with 60 day cards to eliminate the admin headaches the different cards created... and the change was not really open for discussion..."
"the full reply is listed somewhere in the 22 pages at"
"ask serenity steele"
"*edit for link phailmission mining level 4 issues [i got no reply and no comment but still like to bring it up]edit made a post in csm happy now?plus is there a list of all csm somewhere?nvm found the list for csms."
"as a phoenix pilot, i gladly signed"
"yeah it definately needs to be looked at."
"did you ever think that maybe they did no damage because they never fired a volley in the first place? or maybe they just started firing just as that mothership died?using killmails to determine how much damage a ship dealt is arbitrary because so many differet variables can be in place. you have no clue when the phoenix started firing, nor do you know how many defenders/smartbombs were being used, if any at all. however, i still think it should be looked at, because even though you poorly showed us some examples, i could see how the citadels could be gimped from personal experience."
"i don't have much experience with capitals, but i'd assume that all the caps cynoed/warped in and sieged at the same time. so it would be reasonable to assume that the zero damage indicates a fundamental problem.what this thread really needs is a consensus whether citadels should be vulnerable to smartbombs. if they should be vulnerable, it needs to be decided exactly how vulnerable they should be. for that, we'll need some modelling, involving numbers and types of smartbombs on typical capitals, numbers of capitals in a range of engagements  and their proximity to each other , the speed and ehp of citadel torps and estimates of the typical kill % of citadel torps in each environment.as i said, i have minimal experience with capitals, but i don't really see why citadels should be vulnerable to smartbombs at all. no other xl weapon systems can be intercepted in this fashion, and a comparison with dps lost by tracking issues on xl turrets are dealt with by the sig radius and explosion factors, and the large sig and low speed of the intended target capitals."
"sound and reasonable idea"
"agree, delete issue"
"/signed"
"support"
"1.0"
"two thumbs up. i wouldn't mind giving more people build access with view only access to, or locked down bpos, and limited mineral stockpiles, but the ability to cancel a capital ship job which just throws out all the minerals that went into it is too big of a risk."
"what happened to the project ammo buff"
"you should be able to choose the colors green and red are really bad for color blind people to see for example you can choose color on=yellow color off= blue color offlining= blinking white"
"i support this."
"100% support, i'm not color blind, and i have trouble seeing what of my 8 guns are firing and have to approach the screen to confirm.too much alpha on all those module pictures, not to mention some of them still have boxed outlines -- for example fit a catalyst destroyer with 4x tractors 4x salvagers and you'll see what i'm talking about; you can see the bottom left corners of the image on the salvagers and tractors all across your top row."
"should have been done a long time ago"
"i would recommend an in-game solution: a skill set/equipment fittings that allows entering a system that keeps your presence hidden in local.  within game and on the log server "
"can we get an [issue] thread going to bring back bacon, but integrated into eve?having to watch some chat channel to determine if a hostile has entered the system is rather dumb. what's a chat channel got to do with flying a ship? like an above poster said, aurora should do a \"hostile detected\" or \"friendly detected.\"eve client is seriously lacking a decent ui, and an optimal one, should be one that doesn't have to be babyset and fought just to make your intentions realized, and having to stare at some small portion of a screen for an almost tacit update - it's ridiculous.you guys must all be real proud of the chat channel vulturing skills that you have. is that even a worthy skill? \"i can vulture over the chat channel for people joining and leaving the channel like it's nobody's business.\" wow - mad skills. lol."
"id recommend this package  or something similar 1. have a small chance for a datacore  or something valuable  to drop from mining veld in only lo-sec regions.2. ability to deploy a small \"warp stabilization bubble\"3. a mining ship with the cargo space of a covetor, and a tank of a drake  or better than a drake .~s~"
"i only want more cargo space for my mining cruiser and a bit more cpu power so i can have 4 lasers.... and would be nice to have npc to haul the ore back to the station for me,dont need or want low secs."
"you do realize that a hulk can fit two t2 upgrades to the covetor's single t1? and that between that and the exhumer skill bonus, a hulk mines 25% more than a covetor? 1100 to 1400 m3/min is quite a jump, not to mention that the hulk can tank many of the rats in 0.0.mining skills and ships are fine, it is the variety of trit heavy ores that is lacking. add new trit heavy ore to low/null sec."
"yes, i'm all for it."
"/signed"
"rtfs we are not talking about the wardec system but that of the choice and a button for a war dec'd fw corp to ask for help from other fw corps within the same faction."
"not really that silly of a question, but the answer to that is that ccp so far stated they dont want that, as the big 0.0 players could then enter fw.maybe they will change that, but if not the above suggestion seems imho a reasonable workaround for the unsatisfying situation we have right now, so bringing it up cant hurt. if ccp then says theyll change the whole thing anyway, fine, nothing lost.regarding esmenet, the problem is you have mixed fleets of many corps in fw. all these corps would have to wardec the aggressor on their own, meaning the price for the wars would skyrocket under current rules. meaning effectively, it cant be done.fw is id say the only part of eve where you get so many fleets consisting of so many different \"independant\" corps in empire space, and these are not really that independant, but pledged to a common cause, so i think one can justify an exception to normal rules."
"so what?the militia is not an alliance its just a loose organisation to fight the other militias. so if your corp is beeing wardecced for whatever reason your corp should follow the normal wardec mechanics for corps. and if you want to involve more corps to help you then they need to actively start a wardec.otherwise it just turns into a extra protection for highsec corps.if you want a change to this you should open for the possibility to wardec the whole militia similar to what you can do with an alliance."
"i still don't think you get the point to this vote please refrain from posting irrelevant information, if you have a valid reason against allowing fw-corps to assist other war dec'd fw corps please go ahead."
"so what happens when tim's brigade wardecs leet warr!ors, both of them members of the state faction?is a third corp in the faction able to wardec both of them for free?and yes this could matter, especially for some of the rp corporations."
"its not the ability of fw corps to war dec! for the last time!!!!"
"i would only put \"external\" wardecs on the list of wars other militia corps can join in on. something like your empire supporting the thing with concord.rp wise someone would have to pull conords strings or pay up.i wouldnt imagine them doing that for internal strife."
"/signed.100% behind this proposal."
"i support this idea"
"/signedi am not a member of fw, but this sounds like a needed game change regardless."
"i heartily support the ability to aid my fellow militia members. as a small non-profit corp i think this is extremely important and i think that the emphasis on free or cheap buy-ins would be crucial."
"want to fight an empire? you're welcome.  no offense to jade. still some mechanic bits, like who's declaring whom, and the mechanics. likely these new \"militia counter-wars\" would need to be additionally considered mutual wars, and to be used only against non-mutual incoming wardecs. however, you then again shouldn't be able to use the militia as a freely-joinable alliance to fight deal with a mess you've made yourself, in this case getting wardec'd - but this is again a can of worms, since quite naturally we can't expect all corps to join a militia be not in an incoming war. though the good sides outnumber the bad ones in this suggestion."
"it sure seems like your proposal is to allow fw corps to opt into a war another fw corp is already in, this allows the aiding corp to effectively go to war with whoever declared war on their fellow corp.my example was a possibly situation in which the 'aiding' corp could be at war with both corps if they are all in the same faction. reasons for wardeccing within a faction would include things like pirates hiding in the faction.lucai understood my example and i think provided a sufficient mechanic to not allow this to happen for corporations within the same militia."
"sorry if i misunderstood your argument it was quite unclear."
"100% support from me"
"free? so, if i want to warmonger, i could sign up to a militia and declare war freely on anyone that is at war with anyone else in my militia? i think free is too far. perhaps 1/2 cost or something. it isn't like the militia's are that close in relationship. perhaps the whole war declaration thing should be revamped."
"we aren't saying fw-corps should have ability to war dec for free not at all. just aid others through corp/ceo's votes to join within a current war between a non-fw and fw corp, like alliances, ok maybe a small fee should occur and standard war procedures met but the option should be 'freely' available"
"great idea and lovely to hear it got a favourable reception from ccp. if all the fittings it took was a wcs or two and a cloak, it would make hauling larger quantities of stuff from lowsec a little more comfortable than flying up and down 20 times through that gatecamp in an occy oh, and if anybody wants to propose a super-freighter, they have my support too; i don't buy this \"hardly ever use it\" thing; my 900k obelisk is full up ... again!"
"supported entirely"
"evemon is a third party program that isn't endorsed by ccp, therefore shouldn't be needed to play the game. 'nuff said."
"right. the functionality of evemon and eft should be part of the eve - client.in fact, without those programs you are more or less left clueless about stuff like \"how long will my tank hold\", \"how much punishment can my ship take\", etc...this is another issue..."
"longest overdue feature in eve."
"we should make a signature for a skill queue, so the developers see the massive public need for this feature.also everybody supporting this idea may have a look at my bio ingame.---to be honest... what we really want is a dev blog saying: \"we are going to include a skill queue system [or dual skill training, whatever] with the next patch\".a negative response to this would make me reevaluate the customer orientation of ccp, tbh.again, this is not about making this a total afk - game or something, this is about comfort, this is about getting rid of the \"half done skill problem\"  which is annoying as hell  and this, ccp  ! , is about giving your paying customerbase a feature that almost everyone wants.lets see, what the response is."
"i'm in favor of a skill queue provided skills stop training within some reasonable time of not having an active account. immediately up to a week seems fair to me.on a related note i want alts to train skills too."
"if you had to decide between \"queued training\" and \"training while unsubscribed\", which would you choose? ccp is likely concerned about the impact of training queues on people's second and third account subscriptions... and that's not really something they can easily tell their player base. at the very least it's something they should very well be concerned about, but which the average player will likely be fairly unsympathetic toward."
"queued training. if i was ccp i would have never implemented \"training while unsubscriped\", this is unfair towards ccp as well as the playerbase."
"i doubt there will be an official response cause you see its good for the ccp to have you train one skill at a time so you wont progress too fast and get bored with the game so they can suck more money out of you.cant say i blame them for wanting money but as their client i hate it,its the same as allowing autopilot to warp directly to the gate with out wasting hours crawling there as usual.we pay for the account though so i think we also should have all our alts train skills at the same time, i dont see any other reason for not letting us do this then just ccp's corp greed."
"/signed"
"the ore/mineral problems could be solved by having the high end ore  a/b/c, etc  include a lot more low-end stuff. that would actually solve two birds with one stone -- 0.0 would have a good deal less importing from empire  freighter runs comprised solely of tritanium, ugh  on the low ends, so less grinding. the mineral prices for low ends would be reduced due to lower demand and the high ends would increase due to increased demand. this generates a better profit in 0.0  something a lot of people have been complaining about .\"improvements to refining techniques\" occurs when you've trained advanced reprocessing skills  \"advanced oretype processing\" . advanced ice processing could yield a scratch amount of low-end minerals  mineral contaminates in the ice, etc , as well as some additional ice products. lowend and lower midrange asteroids  veldspar, scordite; basically all the ores whose current processing ranks are 1 and 2  would simply yield more % of their own minerals. higher midrange and highend asteroids  current rank 3 and 4 processing  would yield significantly more lowend minerals  trit, pyerite , some additional midrange minerals  mexallon, isogen , and remain constant for high end minerals  nocxium and up .advanced scrapmetal processing would be at a disadvantage here; if you further increase its yield, you end up to a point where it's a useless skill  implants allow 100% refine everywhere with  basic  scrapmetal processing 5, even at outposts . so to remedy the situation to allow it to have some useful purpose, advanced scrapmetal processing could reduce the yield modifier at starbase refineries  currently, there's always a minimum 25% waste there, except for ice . advanced scrapmetal processing would allow you \"3% reduced waste per level when using a refining array anchored at a friendly starbase\", which means the best yield you could get there would be 90%  using a medium/intestive refining array . this is still significantly less than you could get at any outpost, even including many alliances' taxes. this would allow non-alliance entities a better chance at gaining income from 0.0  at the increased risk of being attacked by xenophobes or neighboring enemies .that's my suggestion.but by far and wide, i completely agree that the whole industry system, especially mining, needs to have another look and changed. i've been saying that in-corp since before revelations 1 was released. so, support += 1"
"this needs to be fixed sooner rather than later, i dont see why everything needs the same two types of moon mins, they should have the different races needing different moon mins with maybe the caldari getting the most expensive moon mins"
"/signed."
"i agree this issue needs looking at.has the idea of asteroids containing moon minerals spawning in exploration sites not come up ? this would do something for mining and for exploration. but both really require a more serious overhaul , the industrial side of eve is in the dark ages compared to the pew pew side."
"waratron is right about one thing, sov needs to be re-imagined.i went digging through the database and was stunned by something:base mineral prices:cobalt: 8.00platinum: 16.00dysprosium: 256.00promethium: 256.00if akita is correct about base mineral prices  i'm not going either way because i honestly don't know , then something is upsettingly wrong with moon mineral prices. they're all horribly inflated. i guess on one hand, it boils down to pos upkeep costs. a 100/cobalt per tick moon wont even cover the cost of a small tower, even though cobalt is 2750% more expensive than it's base price. yet a promethium mine will cover the cost of a whole sov network and still yield profit. something is wrong here.i don't like to provide a problem without a reasonable solution, but it seems to me that the fixed supply of moon minerals is a flawed creation. perhaps it's okay that tritanium is empire's bistot, as long as the players make that call through supply & demand. however the amount of available moon minerals yielded every hour can be summarized down to the number of available moons... and i don't mean the hundreds or thousands that don't yield profit.rethinking the sovereignty system is a slippery slope that i just don't want to get in to. i am not nearly optimistic enough to see it ever steering in a positive direction. that being said, i think making the worthless moons more valuable is only a quick fix. moon minerals should not be a limited supply item. no matter how you portion out the twenty kinds of moon minerals, their prices are going to share a direct correlation with the number of moons that can be towered, not the amount of production hours performed by players."
"two problems with suicide ganking today.1  today there appears to be no risk to suicide ganking.2  there also is no real way to counter it other then using a second account. i have not read one post which successfuly proves otherwise on either point. i do think that suicide ganking is a bit unbalanced as it stands today.if the suicide gankers feel that completely removing insurance eliminates suicide ganking then what would a resonable penalty / payout be?show some reasonable math to show a balanced approach to the situation. not \"i don't like mission runners so i want a risk free way to kill them at will\""
"definately something should be done about hi-sec suicide ganking because there is no risk for those that do it. if it hurts for those that are \"victim\" to it, then there should be a large risk for it in hi-sec space. if i rob a guy in the middle of a big city in one of the \"safe\" countries in the world, im gonna get arrested and put in jail. big risk. however, if the reward is big enough, someone is gonna take it no matter the risk. things shouldnt be done to stop it, but things should be done to make it painful and risky for those doing it. support"
"/signed"
"i am definitely against this <U+FFFD>ber lame idea. it is even at this moment absoluetly impossible to get high sec ganked, unless you act like a complete moron.risk vs reward. not even 1.0 should be entirely risk free for people hauling billions of worth modules in their ships made out of wet paper bags. in the history the \"security\" of empire has been toughened several times. each time has meant going to worse. stop that ccp. people supporting ideas like this just want only the reward without the risk. it is wrong. grief them out of the game please."
"there ya go. fixed it for ya. no need to thank me."
"no, please not. suicide ganking is one of the things that make me smile when i read the c&p - forum. i love the carebear whines."
"qft."
"suicide gank/selfdestruct should not pay out insurance"
"what a load of bull. it is very easy to create that risk. just slap in med slots full of shield extenders. most likely the ganker will miscalculate, assault, fail, lose his ship but not get any reward.that's what i always do, my innocent looking haulers are actually quite as touch as battleships some people even have fallen into it, it always makes my day imho you skilless lame newbie dorks should learn how to play the game instead of whining."
"forced?!? oh no, maybe you could do these things.a  sell/buy something elseb  sell/buy somewhere elsebut, okay, say you change it so you can't mess with your orders every 5 minutes. make it 24 hours unless you cancel the order. then what? your power trader will make them for smaller quantities to avoid hellish broker fees and cancel and remake as needed. they will train their skills, get their standings and make it as virtually painless as it is to .01 isk dance.oh wait.. much like the current system of who wants it more gets it?"
"not supported but can hopefully can offer some constructive advice to the op.trading is like pvp and avoiding 0.01 iskers can be thought of like avoiding pirates.do not:don't sell popular items at major trade hubs. people who have millions of sp in trade skills can change their orders from anywhere in the region and usually have very slick systems for checking and changing orders.don't manufacture stuff that drops in rat loot a lot. far worse than the 0.01 isk brigade is some noob who drops the price by thousands of isk or more. 0.01 isk is pro trader stuff, those 0.01 isks add up when you've 70+ large orders open.remember pvp is about assesing the competition, going head to head with the best jita traders is like pvp in 0.0 so don't go in unless you've taken the relvaent precautions like watching and understanding a market before manufacturing the goods.do:consider the buyer. if you're making interceptors think about selling them at entrances to 0.0 so some pod can make it past the gate camp maybe sell on contract with basic fittings . low end t1 frigs placed at noob start up stations. ice mining lasers in systems with ice belts. etc etcif you can perform a service to someone they will pay a moderate premium for the goods and you can rake it in while the supposed pro's are locking horns and loosing money 0.01 isk at a time. plus you never have to go into jita consider training the following skills - trade lvl 3, retail lvl 3, daytrading lvl 4. shouldn't take too long and will allow you to controll a enough trades to gather any resources you need and sell your stock without the need to sit in a trade station. eg, if someone outprices you while you're mining 15 jumps away then one click of a mouse and you're on top again. basic tax skills are nice if you sell a lot of goods.remember that manufacturing is about final profit wheras trading is about turnover. a traders profit is limited by the number of goods they can shift but a manufacturers profit is limited to what they can produce so it is often still worth the traders while to sell at a very small margin over the mineral cost. often the trader won't know much about mineral cost but will sell for under mineral value due to smart buy order placement.do get info on your competition. some traders will sell at a specific x.69isk or x.33isk like a tag and drop/raise the price by 1 isk at a time so look out for this. also if you are competing against a small number of people consider filling one unit of their order to get their name, bookmark them and change your order when they go to bed.sorry about the essay but trading is a complex game of psychology, any attempt to nerf what is for me nothing to do with the isk and everything to do with understanding people and their motivations whould be very sad."
"0.01 isk wars are a grind"
"no support, the .01 game has it's place and can be entirely avoided by proper tactics which are readily available to everyone in the game."
"oppose!next someone will be suggesting you cannot buy all those cheap items and put them right back on the market at a mark-up eve's economy should be further opened up, not further restricted. ccp's decision to leave the shuttle market should have been the first of many such decisions. i can see a reason for some of the trade goods staying in  help noobs, give specialist traders some easy pickings to build their fortunes back up after their freighter got ganked, etc. , but most other products should not be \"spawned\".any way, my 0.02 isk  and i'll be charging interest on those "
"yep fix em"
"i disagree. i think it makes sense that if a ship is under the exclusive ownership and control of one pilot, all of that pilot's skills should apply in determining what the cargo capacity of the ship is, regardless of whether it is the active ship. if a ship is packed to the gills with stuff, and then given to another pilot or loaded onto a carrier, then so long as a different pilot isn't trying to launch the stuffed ship into space, or add or remove anything from its cargohold, then its cargohold should maintain the same capacity as when the first pilot stuffed it.it's like a suitcase. if someone very skilled in packing a suitcase is able to wedge a lot of stuff in it, then so long as nobody else disturbs the contents, the suitcase can be handled, fully loaded, by anyone."
"i second this technique."
"u have my vote : "
"] inanna zuni > please do not editorialize a decisionso let me get this straight..1  an issue if a member can return and replace his alternate comes to vote.2  darius and inanna don't like the \"wording\" of the statement.3  jade asks hardin to rephrase it.4  hardin rephrases it in a straight forward sensible manner. 5  they vote that a member can come back and regain voting rights.6  jade says that the vote passes, and those members can come back and regain voting rights.7  inanna asks to jade not \"editorialize\" the vote. 8  some back and forth conversation goes on and inanna gets a temporary ban.now i agree that the ban is a bit excessive imho, and not something that i would have done myself. but honestly we are arguing about the wording of a vote. i would prefer less drama from the csm members over something as stupid as the wording of this fairly unimportant vote. lets focus on the important things, improving the overall game, making the experience for all players better as a whole, and give up the ridiculous back and forth that has commenced over the last couple of weeks regarding the wording of a vote.it's the chairs job to insure that meetings move forward in a timely manner and that all issues are addressed. while you may not like the wording of a particular sentence i would ask that you grow up, get over it and vote on the issue. we don't care about the minutes of every meeting, but we do care about the end result and the votes on the issues. spending time going over the ridiculousness of a few words is a waste of everyones time and defeats the overall goal of the comitte, and also detracts from where we want the csm's attention to be focused, on the important issues. there are plenty of real issues to argue about, take your pick, but leave the drama over \"wording\" behind please."
"i disagree with jade in the large debate in the the general forums concerning fw, and think he, and star fraction are just promoting their own agenda... and not whats best for the game in general.just because somthing is within the rules, does not always meen its within the games best interests. heck the csms were elected to fix problems that are in the game, not exploit the loopholes for their own enjoyment....for a verry basic cliffnotes:jand and friends: there is no problem war deccing corps that are members of factional warfare, its an allowed mechanic.best argument against: its unfair currently because fw_corpa being war decced byr reg_corpb cannot enter the space of the opposing faction, giving reg_corpb a safe haven from the war. while reg_corpb can travel anywhere because they did not sign up for fw.jade fails to see the imbalance and has tried shouting down anyone who opposes, just like in this thread. and in case anyone is wondering why... because jades alliance star fraction is the alliance that is war deccing bits and pieces of the caldari militia.i support removing jade as chairman, and no i'm no goon, i generally find their tactics deplorable and sometimes even low... but much as i hate to admit it i agree with them whole heartedly here. check corp history, myself and my other account steel-w0lf  with a zero  have been in most of the anti goon alliances."
"wrong, a republic is a country where the ruler/head of state/leader isn't a hereditary monarch. it doesn't need to be a democracy, it can be a oligarchy, like chartage, but is generally ruled by a portion of the people. norway, f.eks. is a constitutional monarchy, so the king is the head of state, but there is government and parliment chosen by the people that rules for the king, or something like that.democracy, meaning \"peoples rule\" come in different flavours.direct democracy: the people vote for all the cases concerning the entity they live in. so if a new tax on cars would be up for vote, all the joes and sallys would vote yay or nay.representative democracy: the people vote for representatives to vote for them on cases concerning the governing of their nation/state/country.if the csm thing was a direct democracy, then we would be voting on the issues, not the csm delegates. this is however a representative democracy... who knows why, but it is."
"and lets not forget there was no ban issued. just a temporary mute: second line, where jade probably tried to unmute something could have gone wrong, though:see the timestamps. could be an unmute, than the message is weird/bugged, could be an outright bug.when inanna was complaining she is blocked:looks like a very primitive attempt to trigger some drama and throw a tantrum by inanna imho. inanna: \"oh, i was being muted  starts crying loud and throwing toys around \".and that:is a clear lie, compare:so how can she be muted/unmuted if shes not on the channel but blocked.and then accusing others of lying. the childishness displayed by innana seems to know no bounds in this case."
"fw threadthis is one of the major reasons i wuld vote jade off the csm. she is trying to use every excuse in the book to allow his alliance to declar war on fw corps who have signed up with the caldari militia.i won't go into all the detail here since its a long, complicated issue. but when it all comes down to balance, it is clear to see that jade and sf are taking advantage of loopholes in the fw design and are able to declare war with no drawbacks for them what-so-ever.i would encourage anyone who hasnt, if they care about game balance, to read it and draw their own conclusions."
"oh my, all that drama, without even needing to get into the issue, you call that a loophole:exert from the faction warfare player guide:plusmaybe you should look up the definition of a loophole. wardecing fw corps is clearly an intended game mechanic, and one of the rules introduced by ccp, thus calling it a loophole is a tad weird, isnt it?the drawbacks are the usual ones for declaring war, and this is apparantly how ccp intended it to be at the moment.still wanting to shout exploit or any of its synonyms?but by all means, drama on, seems to be a vital need for some of you. wouldnt want to be responsible for you asphyxiating with a big red head cause you couldnt vent the hot air."
"the real issue in that thread, had you bothered to read it is te lack of ability to engage anyone shooting other militia members. all other militia members can do is sit there and watch. geeze, that sounds like its balanced, doesn;t it.i could give a bloody damn what you think to be quite honest....i care about the people actually doing fw and consider it a very large game imbalance. i dont care bout you, so you can go back to your hole now. you're dismissed.ps- you want any recognition, then post with you main. if not, stfu."
"so by your estimation, the recent \"game mechanic\" that allowed ivy league to become basically immune to any war dec is also how ccp intended it to be?don't be so naive. in a game this complex, there are many loopholes that can be exploited to make the game more beneficial for yourself.in this case, a corp/ alliance who can make a war dec and have an entire area of space where they are immune from reprisals is clearly not an intended use of the war dec mechanic."
"wow, talk about ego.jade has to go."
"i just cant see what ingame action, that is perfectly within the rules of the game, has anything to do with chairing the csm. forcing him, which is extremly unlikely to happen, out of the csm wont change his action / views ingame at all. so what about you go elsewhere with your \"exploit\" fake drame."
"wow this is cool. after reading though 'most' of this post i can see that ccp idea of a player committee has worked a treat.. you all acting like real life committee members/politicians!<U+F04A>"
"the irony is that while the csm members themselves have met, had a damned successful face to face meeting that ended in a very positive nyt article that got us praised as approaching the business in a professional and diligent manner. this thread still keeps on sucking in a collection of bottom-feeders trying to make some kind of mileage on their personal vendettas and angst. this caldari fw thing is a case in point. having discussed the issue on the thread in question and challenged the caldari fw members to post an issue thread with their proposed solutions only one actually did that \"nvchicky\". the rest  including the worst of the people posting immediately above  decided that their arguments were too weak to actually make a proposal and they preferred to keep whining and making false \"exploit\" accusations in the face of clearly presented evidence to the contrary. i said in the other thread and i'll say it here. i consider it a personal triumph that people who hate non-consensual pvp and loathe very notion of the empire war-dec mechanic want me removed from the csm. it validates the manifesto i stood for, it emboldens the vision i have for the game and it convinces me it was right to stand and serve on this committee just to confront and neutralize the kind of whiny poltroon's who would make eve into an instanced wow arena game if they got their way. i dine out on the emo tears of those posters above me crying about how membership of the caldari militia hasn't protected them from empire wardecs. i laugh at their weakness and cowardly lack of backbone and its my pleasure to blow up their ships in-game. i ran for csm on an election platform of pro-pvp opportunity and dynamism and it would be the height of hypocrisy for me not to be a fan of small unit pvp in game. eve as dark universe and its a hard environment for people used to 100% safety and instanced pvp in controlled environments. but thats the soul of eve, the beauty and the allure of the game is in player vs player strife and consequence for actions and the day that corporations can make themselves totally safe in empire from wardecs is the day this game begins to die. i stand utterly opposed to the notion that arlenna molatov, steel tigeress, ayrianna nagaya, nitalya and lord frost can declare their corporations for a militia and will no longer have to be vulnerable to the corporation wardec mechanic. i am utterly opposed to the notion that anybody wardeccing them will be faced by faction npc response, and i am utterly opposed to the principle that carping whines and mewling complaints on the forums will get these people more safety for their in-game corporations. hard words? people might condemn me for standing on the csm and having strong opinions. but thats ridiculous. i got elected because of strong opinions and its my responsible to keep on expressing them and ensuring that the people who read my election manifesto and trusted me to promote the kind of eve online i described there has a place in the future we are helping to build. so caldari militia. how about facing up to your real issues and learning how to deal with wardecs with spaceships in space and small unit pvp? you have an opportunity to play this game now. you joined a thing called faction warfare and its time for you to prove that you know what the second word actually means. enough of this ridiculous forum whining and more action in space. if you do have an actual assembly hall issue you want to express be my guest - make a thread, lets see how the debate goes. but if you decide instead to keep on whinging and trying to personalize the issue of game mechanics that are working exactly as they were intended then you are going to work a minor miracle and reduce your reputation even further. this csm forum is not a self-help group for butthurt wannabe pvp pretenders who go crying to their mothers when the first time a hostile wardec comes in."
"a few whiny caldari dont really change the reasoning behind the original suggestion."
"don't get me wrong, i believe the entire thread is full of fail-posters and i'm happy to laugh at anyone foolish enough to click \"support\" on this issue for the reasons stated. the last few caldari whiners just help to typify the general standard of people posting yes in this thread quite neatly - basically anyone butt-hurt by any decision or issue that goes against them gets to shout abuse at the csm chair in this thread. its probably the****utic. -edit. how the hell is the word the****utic filtered?-edit2. gah i see thats ther-apeutic  thats as in ... a consequence of a medical treatment, of any kind, the results of which are judged to be desirable and beneficial. "
"now don't get me wrong, i love what you do and you are a great speaker, but you have to see the inherrant flaw in your own argument.why should it be possible for someone to war dec someone else, and be completely secure in their own area of space?! it was not intended to work this way, and yet, by deccing someone in fw, you are effectivly making it so that you only have to fight when you want to, on your terms, negating them the benefit of ever making any kind or suprise or ambush tactic, and also taking any risk from war time logistic operations. this is what you are saying you want to not happen if they made fw corps immune to decs, which i agree, is not right, nobody should be safe. this is eve, not carebears online.now i am not saying you will use this tactic. i belive you will sit in low sec systems, in contested space, and tell people to \"bring it\", but this doesn't mean others won't, and this is where something may need to be done.i havn't come here with any suggestions or solutions to this problem, only to highlight the fact that if it isn't yet, it may well become a problem that needs to be dealt with, and as the chair of the csm, it should be your perogative to look at it with an unbias view and present a solution or at least recognise the potential for honest debate. however, with you being the head of the alliance in question, are you truely able to stay unbias?p.s. sorry for the spelling/ grammar"
"well lets say i'm a 0.0 alliance. all my logistics, money making, ratting and holdings are out somewhere in deep 0.0 protected by a nap fest, cyno-jammers, jump-bridges and the rest. if i wardec x target in empire then my pvpers are going to go after those guys while all my logistics and money-making remain safe in deep home ground 0.0. its very much the same issue. and end of the day, is spinning through hisec gallente space any more dangerous for the caldari fw militia then taking a tour through delve would be. i don't think so. well we're actually sitting in their hisec systems saying \"bring it\" as well as contested lowsec systems. but the point is the militia is a tool they can use in one way \"get lots of free wardecs against enemy militias\" or \"join as an individual to be protected from wardecs\" or they could just as easily pull the corp out of the militia and go hunting wherever they wish. they have complete flexibility of response and countermeasure. sure others could conceivably wardec a caldari militia member corp and then sit in gallente hisec and do nothing, but that costs a wardec fee to no good ends. the onus is on the declarer to do something with the war end of the day or they end up paying for nothing. oh absolutely. sf's role in this is relatively minor. i suspect many many organizations will wardec individual militia corp members in the weeks to come because thats eve. just because a corporation affiliates with a fw militia doesn't mean it stops being a player corp that is responsible for handling the consequences of its actions. there's also a bit of a confusion over the role of csm chair in all this: my responsibility as chair is pretty straightforward: 1. organize and chair meetings of the csm, ensure that issues get heard, votes get made, and process gets followed. i do have a responsibility to ensure that other csm reps get a fair hearing and get to register their decisions on the public record. my responsibilty as a csm delegate is pretty straightforward too: 1. represent the views and interests of my constituency and advocate those issues i believe will be in the general interest of eve online. these are two different things and responsibilities as chair have no bearing on specific positions on items like the wardec mechanics or faction warfare - as long as i make sure the discussions happen, voting is fair, and results get recorded thats the duty of chair sorted. as a csm rep i've got a full right and duty to express the opinions and positions i was elected on. in this case i'm pro pvp combat and player on player consequence in the matter of empire wardecs."
"you have to consider your personal agenda too. you have this preconception of 'caldari whiners', but truth is you are simply drawing your own conclusions to a debate and not taking anyone else's opinion into account. just because people want fairness and balance, doesn't give you the right to call them whiners. and for you to sit on that chair and say that, tells all of us you don't belong there. you do not have this community as a whole in mind.that's hardly the case. and shows how self centered and egotistical you are.i sit and watch how you gain the safety of or gallente navies while caldari deals with the drawbacks. yet you sit in your safe haven calling them carebears.i think they are all implying that you are invulnerable with your war dec.as csm chair, you have a lot of issues and pigeon holing an entire faction is why you suck at your job. so star fraction, why not face up to your real issues and learn to join a militia the intended way. and, jade... face your issues and learn to see eve as a whole community and not your personal perception. you have much to learn.you already have reduced yourself. by all means, keep sinking lower. nice... you just sank lower. jade, please act professional. you are in a postion of power... act like it."
"amazing argument... but you know that jade wont reply to you specificaly for that reason."
"i'll stop you there. we're in nouv, thats caldari hisec. where incidently our wardec targets in the caldari militia live. perhaps you are \"watching\" somebody else entirely? in any case that basic failure to address in-game reality and post truthfully on the forums does rather neatly summarize the rest of your post. i suggest you stop \"watching\"  the wrong people  and get into your space ship and fight the wardec you are complaining about rather than spamming the forums with your erroneous complaints about a game mechanic that people have repeatedly indicated is operating precisely as intended."
"so... uh... what's your responce to the rest of his allegations?"
"first off... just cuz you may not be in gallente space  rather you lie about it  doesn't mean others won't abuse the power.second, ummm... yes, operating as its intended... that doesn't mean everything ccp intended to do was precisely correct. now does it? seems you want alliances to have a role in fw. i don't see a problem... since its 'operating precisely as intended', yet you whine. so why is your whine more important than the other whine?you are way up on your soapbox trying to push for your agenda."
"groundless and false. without merit. just like your post in fact"
"thank you for your mature and constructive responce. : "
"which is where you fail. as soon as anyone disagree's with you, you lose it and start enforcing your point of view. this thread and the fw one are prime examples. instead of looking at the issue and sseeing there is the posibility of unbalance and abbuse, you shout down the opposition because it affects you and yours.a professional leader would look into matters regardless of their personal feelings on the issue: you fail in this, so are unfit for leadership.except for that right now it appears that the issues your constituency are interested in is fixing fw, and removing you from your seat. oh wait that cant be right, that doesnt agree with the voices in your head, so when an issue is raised that has garnered as much support as this one, it should be laughed off and insulted because it doesnt agree with you. i pity what your going to go through when ccp gets tired of the elected chair laughing at and insulting its playerbase, and ignoring the issues brought forth and supported on this board.for once you should do the respectable thing and realize that if your actions and beliefs stir up this much controversy, perhaps you arnt suited for the juob, and leave on your own. but that wont happen regardless of the fact that well over 200 votes of support want the issue of your removal raised."
"no tigeress. i have robustly argued a point and dealt with your false accusations of \"exploits\" \"griefing\" and \"broken mechanics\". you have been crying 'sploit like a spoiled child because you have become the victim on an empire wardec. many others have pointed out that you are wrong. undeterred you continue to allege exploits and griefing because you feel your own gameplay has been hindered by a hisec wardec. what you wanted was for somebody in a position of some kind of authority to agree with you. instead you have been challenged to back up your points and present factual argument. you have failed on all accounts and now fall back on the tried and trusted route of alleging bias and misbehavior. a professional leader looks into the facts before they listen to the sensualist cries of \"haxx and exploit\". you have directly lied about many things in the course of this discussion tigress. either these are intentional lies or lies from simple incompetence. in any case your arguments are damaged by your inability to debate matters without descending into falsehood and sensationalist slander. i challenged you to put an issue thread into public debate. why don't you do it? when you get 200 supports in favour of nerfing empire wars lets talk. thats because these 200 votes come about around 60 people who got butt-hurt for various reasons into trying to undo the result of a democratic electoral process, thus far it has received no support from a csm member and consequentially hasn't been brought to our formal attention. quite properly the 2400 votes i received in the election are considerably more relevant in the grand scheme of things. so once again, if you want the csm to sponsor changes you propose in eve online make an issue thread and set out your arguments. if they hold water you'll get some good support and a csm delegate will bring the issue to the council. i'd advise you to have a nice cup of tea first though and clear some of the vitriol from your veins because nobody is convinced by personal attacks mixed with game development objectives. so, if you actually have something you care about go do this."
"fine.lests assume 1 thing. lets pretend i am involved in factions at all.sf wardecs steel-wolfs. fine and dandy, you can shoot at me, i can shoot at you.thats all fine, what is not fine is that sf can hunt me anywhere in empire, while i cannot hunt you. if i was caldari, you could hide in galente or min space and i couldnt pursue. that is the imbalance you have been ignoring for 12 pages.you say thats fair because the fw corp chose to be in fw. thats correct they did, to fight other people on the opposing team in fw. its the same way if you choose to attack a fw corp, you should no longer be welcome in their space.. you chose to declar the war so its all fair.except that would crimp your allinces little jihad and even though the problem is staring you in the face you refuse to see it. the emporer cant be naked, his cloths are just invisible...."
"i've underlined your falsehood. you can certainly hunt us. while you are in the militia you will have to keep moving since enemy npc's will hit you sure. or you could temp drop the miltia and hunt us. or you could pay mercs to hit us. or you even shift to the other milita and hit us. or you could drop your corp and join the militia as individuals. or you could surrender and ask for terms. there is a world of options and the problem you are expressing is absolutely no different from the problem faced by many eve corporations and alliances that find themselves wardecced by entities with home and income streams based in owned 0.0 space. if you get wardecced by band of brothers are you going to be able to hunt them fleely in delve? or are you going to be relentlessly hunted by their patroller drones  players  defending their space. really. you are making a big fuss over nothing and claiming you have no options or ability to counterattack when you clearly do."
"there is a huge difference between the two. one is an automated defence that will happen anytime, no way around it.the other can be avoided, has a much slower response time, and most import bob in 0.0 is being protected by other players.you and sf have the opportunity of protection by npc's, and that protection is costing you nothing, its a side effect of your enemy being in fw.your posts have already been reported, course i dont actually think ccp will do anything. but you were reported for conduct unbecomming a person holding a ccp endorsed position. even if nothing is done at least they will be aware of the problem....thats you."
"are you really trying to claim that you'd have more luck moving a caldari faction warfare gang through delve than you would spinning through a couple of gallente hisec systems being chased by some faction npc ships that don't even scramble? seriously.well its costing us 100-200m isk a wardec actually. thats not \"nothing\" and its considerably more than you pay by being in the militia and getting free protection from the enemy militia in your hisec. well maybe there's an upside and through the process of making nonsense reports you'll learn about proportionality and how to handle an adult debate without losing your temper. in the end it could turn out to be a learning experience for you.still, i'll return to my earlier advise and suggest if you do still feel strongly about this subject you should raise an issue thread with your proposed resolution. would be much more productive than following me round the forums and shouting \"'sploits\" \"haxx\" \"griefer\" \"broken war mechanics\" \"csm bias\". have the courage of your convinctions and put up an issue. i know you can do it!"
"dont you ever, ever lecture me about courage and convictions. you fail to grasp what either of those two words actually meen. maybe when you ever have to sacrifice anything for what you believe we can talk on this issue. suffice to say you have the freedome to be a prick because of the sacrifices of guys like me.until then keep spinning your wheels how ever fast you like, because the more you post about how much all the oppinions in this thread dont matter, the more people will realize how wrong you are for the job."
"i'll keep lecturing you about courage and convictions as long as your gameplay appears to lack these things. you are complaining about gameplay consequence and incoming wardecs in an open-pvp game that is famous for its dark and brutal environment and opportunity for conflict and warfare. rather than fighting in-game and getting into your spaceship to defend your allies you've brought the fight to the forums and are trying to make mileage by attacking a csm member who dares disagree with your ill-thought out and badly argued tirade against the principle of corporation wardecs. you basically want everything your own way and you lack the backbone to fight for what you believe in. i've advised you many times to start an issue topic on this subject and you still prefer to come back attacking me rather than taking the slightest risk in tabling your own topic for discussion. that i've reached unfavourable conclusions about your lack of courage should hardly be surprising. still, you could always reach for the wardec button from your alt corp?"
"this is an issue topic thread. one concerning your removal, the only one dodging and avoiding the topic at hand here is you. you are the problem that needs fixing most at this point, because at this point in time trying to fix anything else is rather pointless as there is not an unbias csm chair. at this point and propossed [issue] thread has to get by you.i may have overstated the votes in this thread though. there are ~198 votes for your removal... =/- 2%thats more votes than most issue threads. the only [issue] thread i found with more was the skill que thread which is at about ~253 votes of approval. which incidentally i like the solution you sudgested.it goes to show you do have good ideas, so long as they dont affect anything you like negativly....."
"and no, you wont keep lecturing, because you can only lecture somone who is willing to learn. the thing you need to learn is that there is selfless service, which is what a leader should be, and selfish service which is what a power junkie practices.i currently practice the first, and you the second. and you will never sway me into thinking you are in the right."
"/signed."
"and then you'll have new players quitting because as soon as they lose their first ship because they can't recover. we do need insurance, it just needs balancing. and criminals get insurance payouts why, ccp??"
"/signed"
"agreed"
"without mechanics to promote defence there will never be any 0.0 player run empires, just pvp groups shuffling around the map.we should be looking at ways of forcing combat to the borders of claimed empires, and restricting the ability of offensive forces to project their power directly at what should be the softer civilian hearts of empires.it is exactly the lack of this type of structure which discourages players from making the move to 0.0.in order to facilitate defence, freedom of movement of defending forces around their borders is something that needs to be in place, but not to the point where an alliance can border off an area of space disproportionate to it's size and ability.borders should be somehow expanded to accomodate growing numbers, rather that claiming vast swaithes of space and hoping to fill them.that is a concept for the clever people to get their teeth in to, not paltry changes to an existing mechanic.jump bridging caps in to cyno jammed systems isn't really an issue at all.the jump bridge network is in itself attackable and cyno jammers can be taken down by moderate sized forces in minutes.this isn't an issue that should be changed in isolation either. if it was considered as part of a more widespread review of space claiming mechanics then it may have some merit, but as it stands it seems more like a cry for help than an issue of balance.it isn't undefeatable, but it requires a concerted effort - isn't that what attack should be about?"
"ridiculous i say"
"these devices were added to allow defenders the advantage they deserve and prevent the 4 am blitzkrieg attack, and they have done this very well. the real argument those complaining about them have is that they allow one alliance to defend against an equal size or smaller alliance launching a blitzkrieg attack at 4 am, which is of course, exactly what they are supposed to do.if a significantly larger alliance were to seriously attack an entrenched defender, then they can easily take down the jammer in minutes, bring in their caps, and lock the system down completely until the towers are dead. the only people these proposed changes would benefit are smaller hit and run instant gratification types who are frustrated that they can't defeat a larger enemy by setting their alarm and launching one quick attack.if a serious and worthy attacker needs some way   other than the 4am blitz   to bring capitals to the fight, then let them gain control of the system long enough to set up their own tower and let pos mounted cyno generators punch through jammers, and allow the attacker to online one without sov   though it should take several hours to do so, giving the defense the chance for a counter attack  ."
"that's all you have to say about the ui?weaksauce."
"let me guess... you are going to vote for enemy of caldari? xdcome on, have a laugh, you know you want to!"
"as long as it keeps this bloody faction gangs from targeting neutrals who are just farming rats or jumping gates, i hate being targeted by the gangs even in high secs this days."
"tbh, all we really need is a way to make filthy republican militia pilots valid war targets. even access to fw agents is a secondary issue.imo, the best solution would just be to set all members of the pirate militia to sec status -10. that pretty much solves all alliance-fw related issues in one fell swoop.but in the meantime this will do."
"yes bring it back pls"
"i would definently support the idea. i too have myself a couple of stupid skills which i would like to get rid off. on the technical note, i'm a bit confused why is it do we [player community] be concerned about it at all ? this is not our job, we are no paid for being concerned technical aspects of the game. on the other hand ofc i appreciate that if someone is showing interest and knowledge of database building then he could do some input, but to me it appears that its totally unconstructive. i'm quite positive that even if you do have knowledge of the certain it systems you would know what exactly does it take to implement a new feature unless you are an internal dev. with respect to character skill sheets, i've read somewhere back then, that for ccp it costs zero money monet to support and maintain that database, hence they said that they would keep that information infinitely. i'm not an it specialist, but basing on that i would guess that implementing something like unlearning skill feature should be relativelly easy. +1 /signed"
"worst idea ever, and if it's an idea, you should prolly post it in the features and ideas discussion forum."
"if you don't want one, you don't have to get one... it's ok.ps. \"small bussines entrepreneur\" not single player."
"i've had this thread in features and ideas discussion for almost two years now. sadly, most of the ideas proposed are still issues, or have not been implemented, and in general, the ui is just as bad, or worse than it was back then.but rather than attempt to reiterate the whole thing here, i'll link it, then give a little taste with the room that's left in this postand that's just part of the first post. there are 13 pages in that thread."
"fully support. there's a lot here that would make players' lives a lot easier."
"same here. tbh, a word processor or spreadsheet application would not pass quality control with the same amount of user unfriendliness.may i add:* \"sell everything\" - command for all selected items"
"i would love to see all this fixed just to see what xaen spends the next 2 years trying to get fixed... also because it needs fixing."
"yes please."
"yep, also more 2 click options like click item in overview then click warp to/orbit etc in the box above.a station menu similar to the 'selected ietm' box above the overview could be introduced with buttons like:-repackage and sell-repackage and reprocess-fit to active ship-etcall these buttons could have hot keys set through the shortcuts tab in the esc menu.some cargo containers could be exempt so that you don't accidentaly select all, hit 'repackage and sell' then realize you've just sold the corps mineral cans and their contents.also see rsi issues with hotkeys"
"i support this if everyone in the flipee's alliance is immediately flagged to me  the flipper  and my corp/alliance. think of it as a 15 min wardec heh"
"yes to alliances, no to gangs.isk farmers often use a gang to keep track of the location of thier sweat shop npc corp miners. flipping thier cans and stealing thier ore is one of the tools, we as the player base, have against these people in addition to the petition.they use the npc corps for protection from war decs, that needs to have an associated cost, risk/reward, etc. risk/reward applies because not all npc corp miners are farmers, some are legitimate players.another reason to not do gangs is for new players. often noobs are recruited by a helpful and friendly older player, yes such people do exist in eve. the noobs are somewhat protected by this as well, as previous posters have pointed out. although this can be mitigated by the helpful player using a +10 standing towards the noob, it is a cumbersome work around to an action that should be easy - we should want older players, that do want to help new players, be able to help them with as little effort and risk to both as possible."
"i believe tachyons are \"oversized\" battleship guns, which other races do not have."
"i think its capacitor usage is to compensate for no ammo consumption. and, yes, tachyons are pretty hefty."
"no. if they were easier to fit, they would become way too powerful."
"especially they will suck all your cap in 3 mins at all 5 skills ? evear heard of heavy energy neutralizer dominix? it will suck laser ship out of cap in less than minute."
"i think it's an abaddon problem and not a tachyon problem. tachyons must remain hard as hell to install as a payoff for their incredible power.i just think abaddon misses a bonus to cap usage for lasers similar to the other amarr bses. the reason behind my suggestion is that if we accept the very hard fiting requirments of the tachyons are fair we must not forget that this fact makes you havinng to fit several rcs that mess up your fiting. these rcii mods you must fit take 2 lows already and the cap consumption is so great that you have to install also cap power relays to remediate.that is why i think the best solution is to leave the tachyons as they are but add a bonus to laser cap usage for the abaddon on top of the other bonuses. perhaps not a 10% per lvl but at least a 7,5% per lvl."
"global bonus like in apocalypse would be nicer to new players."
"since when should new players be flying a top-tier bs? if you don't like fitting an rcu, drop down a tier or drop a gun. an apoc with 7 tachs does the same damage as a megathron with a much greater optimal. if you could fit a full rack of tachs on an abaddon without an rcu, it would be overpowered."
"especially that lasers do mostly em damage which is preety useless vs omni armor tanks?"
"bumpcsmplease add this to the list of issuesi think everyone agrees with this ideawe just need a dev response about the possible load issuse"
"totally, i'm tired of sitting in jita with 10000 items, having to right click and quick sell each one. to expand on the idea, i would like to be able to set a threshold, for example if stack of items exceeds a specified amount, it will not be automatically check marked in the window."
"for blob warfare this isnt new there are already bombs to do this ... kill frigs/ceptors/drones but if u really wanted to do some damage you wouuld have to self destruct ur carrier tbh... and everyone will be more than 20km away given that everyone can see the message your self destructing ye fithy terrorist"
"hell no. you stick your d**k in the meat grinder, you deal with the consequences. we already have seen idiots self destruct motherships when they are going down just to deny the fleet killing them the kill mail they deserve, now you want them to also get kills of their own for such a cowardly act?"
"well...don't give them the killmail for the self-destruction kills. make it a \"neutral\" kill of sorts."
"i'd rather the ui overhaul get done than this. i spend so much time zoomed out to see the battlefield, that nice little pretty weapon effects mean nothing to me.now.. the ui.. that effects us all."
"it certainly wouldn't do any harm."
"as long as we can keep it decently up to date, yes. how we do that... i am not sure."
"i'm always in favour of more trade-type ideas, but there must be some serious safe-guards against scams, double-dealing, ripoffs and associated asshattery, and with a very complex system chances are that we'll need to hire pwc or mckinsey to audit the place.so, not a :thup: nor a :thdown: i suppose[edit: had to hyphenate safeguards.. er.. safe-guards because of some issue with the naughtywordcatcher][edit2: can someone please enlighten me in what language *** is a naughty word ; ]"
"of course support for more love for the stock market. didn't lv include this into the csm meeting with ccp though?as an aside, imho the best option and simplest would be to make stocks and shares like bearer bonds and tradeable on the open market like ships, and everything else in the game.*edit for support hurrrrr"
"that would be awwesome!the ability to invest online in a game"
"i agree that mmo trade ideas are always great to hear. however a stock market? this one has been talked to death for years.biggest problem is what is the compeling reason to buy stock from any alliance or corperation? i would be willing to bet that if it was trackable there are more profitable sinlge corperations that you would want to buy than some of the largest alliances.the reason for buying stock is not the dividend payout. the largest draw is the profitabilty in the market do to share price flucuation. however what would information would ever casue a stock to go down? who would cover the cost if say bob went bankrupt. are you going to also have a ingame bankrupcy mechanic to allow them to cover corp and alliance assets if the market crashes?are you going to allow takeovers? i really do like this idea but alot more has to be considered first and it won;t be just a few tweaks or simple added game mechanics.i think it would be better as someone else said to just allow alliances to sell off bonds that pay dividends based or something simple like the combined intake of all the alliance shared pos. have that money dump into a huge slush fund...pay the divedends the the rest gets spilled out into the alliance walllet.this way you cover the profts of the bond market and can easily track everything. you must also have a wallet that holds in escrow enough money to cover the existing bonds and have it pay an intrest so that it covers the buyback ability of the alliences and also gives them a compelling reason to sell the bonds and tie up the funds in the first place.firestrm"
"/signed"
"ok,if your a noob and want to get some researching done and your in caldari space then your in trouble.i am not talking about productivity research cause you can do that just takes little effort.i am talking about material research.in the whole bloody region all slots are used up!i am not going to go to amari space just for this as gm told me too,why should i? i think its not fair that some ppl hoged all the slots and i have to look over the entire region to find slot where i have to wait half a month! i am sick of it!i payed for the time i play yet i cant use the game features that i am entitled to! pls ccp fix this and allow us noobs to get some research done either by increasing research slots to 50 or making sure an account always has a slot free to research! 1 slot, is it too much to ask for?"
"i research in amarr space and it still takes at least two weeks to get a slot active. frankly though, this isn't really a problem - it creates a market for player-owned slots there's someone on these forums offering research slots as a business, 9000 isk/hour , and it balances out the fact that me research is way, way better than pe. also, it doesn't prevent you from doing anything, it just means you have to wait for it. waiting is hardly onerous."
"npc slots need to be removed and player owned slots be public rentable..problem solved for everyone"
"alright, i am a member of about four or five forums. this is my sixth. i have lurked, posted once or twice, on these forums. now, my concern is mostly routed in the caod forums, but its also present throughout the rest. the persistent one word replies and blatant spams, trolls, and frankly, unnecessary posts that plague these forums make me not want to read them for the information i come for. i would like there to be more strictly enforced rules for trolling and one word posting, and other just stupid posts that these forums do not need.its not impossible, one of the forums i frequent has thousands of members like this one and is able to make most threads readable and free of spam/trolling. i know i am not the only one that has seen this, or likes it, and it really makes these forums less then what they can be. please resolve this issue."
"yea well caod is kind of the alliance smack chanel. there is never really any sort of information in there. i am not too sure what info you would ever be looking for in that forum. its mainly entertainment more than anything else. as is most of these forums. there are some good areas howeverfor info as to ships, skills and such.but mainly this is pretty much like the wwf. you know its fake and its stupid but you can't just turn away."
"/signed"
"dude."
"farrqua i would just like people to actually do as the title of the forums says. corporation and alliance discussion. not corporation and alliance smack, not corporation and alliance wwf. its supposed to be a place to see news about the alliances, and what is new with them, what wars are happening, which still gets posted, but then half the posts are trash. some are cleaned out by mods, but most is left there to make half the forum unreadable or topics having twice as many pages as needed. its rediculous, and something needs to be done."
"i am a loyal caldari navy mission runner who is also in the caldari militis. i am accumulating a lot of loyalty points that i do not know what to do with. i want to get a caldari faction ship, but i'm not too into ravens, ospreys, or merlins. is it possible to add a caldari navy drake?"
"even though i support the sentiment, i fear the flaw is that in any market and any item, there comes a point where the value of its parts is going to be more than the value of the object, especially over time.if it costs 5bil to build a titan  i dunno, just some number  and tomorrow it costs 5.1bil, you are already at that point.yes, your suggestion would deliver some interesting trade opportunities, for noobs and experienced traders alike, but much more effective, realistic and interesting would be to follow what the right hon. mr vista suggested, and that is to remove as many npc goods from the market.heck, i'll go make trash if there's money in it"
"hey, i used to fly the imicus--yes, that 'ugly ship'--with a prototype cloak for moon scanning. i had to stare at that thing a lot... and that was with classic graphics. it's not that bad. quit whining.now, personally, i wish ccp would have changed the purpose of the t1 ships as opposed to the hulls of the t2 ships, for example make the imicus an ew ship and the maulus a scanning ship, and then the t2 hulls can match up appropriately, but hey, i hear the new anathema is sexy, i've got to toss that on my alt. ;- "
"i'd rather have the navitas hull than anything else."
"oops... sorry to double post but i forgot to check for support"
"this.you pay more in modules/t2 ships to get better performance, and your trade-off is to take a bigger isk hit when it dies. why should this be changed?"
"if this is an idea, shouldn't it be put into the f&i discussion forum?"
"ever heard of median price? 1 zealot at 10b wont change insurence price if there are 1000 at 80mln price. it wil increse about 2mln. you fail"
"it think you missed the importance of the ...'sjust keep doing it until you hike the price enough, all it is costing you is broker fees, which are negligible with trade skills.fail indeed"
"this is easy enough to fix - base it on eve-wide mineral prices. nobody is a big enough player to manipulate those meaningfully."
"that's how it currently is slappy.problem is, t2 ships aren't made directly from minerals, and thus they get royally gimped insurance payouts."
"and thats a good thing."
"no support.eve needs insurance removed from the game entirely, there is no need for this isk faucet in the game anymore....if anything make it possible to have player insurance corporations"
"no, it isn't. except for a selfish minority.the majority would get a lot of more fun if t2 ships were more... casual."
"you already have invention pushing prices to the effective floor. insurance is not needed."
"80 million isk+ for a throw away - pvp - ship  deimos  still isn't exactly what i call \"on the effective floor\".with 100% insurance payout it would be ok."
"the ship you are looking for is called a thorax."
"oh, really?"
"100% insurance on t2 items would be economy suicide. insurance is a faucet, it injects money into the game. it would also effectively put a floor price on all t2 components.no, if you want to help make t2 more affordable, i suggest you mosey on over to the critical eve isk issue in this same forum and lob your support for a change in the way moon minerals are derived and used through the various t2 processes.as it stands, you have prices the way they are because demand is high, and supply of just two moon minerals  which account for 80% of the make up of component cost  are low."
"issue:rsi caused by extended use of multi button functions leading to early onset of arthritis  aka playstation thumbs .solutioni would like to propose that any multi button shortcuts have the option of using a mouse button instead of alt, ctrl or shift.  eg, ctrl + f3 can cause awkward hand positions yet mouse + f3 would be fine. a type button such as 6 + f3 would also be fine because 6 is close to the f keys but could lead to some very odd conversations in local.having some buttons on the drone ui like launch / engage target / return, would be nice too as currently if you don't want to use multi button shortcuts you're into right click menus which are a bit clunky for combat.the default shortcuts should discourage the use of ctrl/alt/shift + f keys.reasoning:many people find a dull ache in their wrist or lower arm after extended computer use, especially if you also play an instrument like the guitar or spend too much time in gallente pleasure hubs. this dull ache is caused by friction between the tendon and the tendon sheath which over time can cause a build up of tissue leading to impairment in early old age  ie once you're retired and want to be out enjoying yourself .if you're not worried about retirement then think about everything you've done in the last 5 years then imagine getting an extra 5 years of use out of your arms at the end of your life.it's just a thought so any other rsi reduction ideas appreciated"
"reposting to support"
"true.there are a lot of possibilities in eve when it comes to relieving rsi."
"to reduce server charge and then db access, i think it should be allowed  i think i was possible long time ago  to stockpile items in hostiles stations remotly and repackage undamaged items / ships toofor example i have personnally now like more than 30000 stack of items in various station with various char, and if this is implemented i think i can easily make it going down to 20000 easy"
"posted this too fast, apparently notes have been or are going to be sent to ccp. when we will see them? no clue.-manasi"
"this is a perfect example of an idea that needs to be in the \"features and ideas discussion\" forumthe idea is mostly just a selfish nerf to another faction so my faction could beter pwnand none will agree with this for any other than that reasonthe idea is also not thought throughi might post an idea \"make battleships imune to light and medium missiles\"... i think that would greatly make up for the fact that missile users can pick damage types... ... se how stupid these ideas sound when the're against your faction"
"i'll say exactly the same thing as i did at jita park when you made this thread there:missiles and turrets are different - this isn't a bad thing."
"you want cruise luncher t2. so you train it. you had large t2 rail guns now you want beam lasers no you dont train them, you train small,medium to level 5 then level 5 of large. caldari missioners have too easy all way."
"if you had done a search on the forum  yea i know the search tools suck but still  you would have found similar threads like this. each one explaining that the skillplans are different but the time spent is actually very similar.  hint: play with evemon . if i remember right you even spend slightly longer time training missile skills to cover the same amount of options."
"the missile skill tree is longer than each gunnery one. and you want training gunnery to be quicker?"
"bump because its important"
"i think you should get faction standing at the very least for killing enemy faction ships and likewise lose it for killing your own ships."
"most realistic would be to simply implement a set of capital ship/module implants, and make all non capital implants not affect capital ships/modules at all. a slave equivalent shield set would make the passive tanks on certain ships totally unreasonable, but the shield boost from a cyrstal set would make capital shield tanking nuts."
"it might take you longer to use t2 guns.. but when you get them at leaste your ammo is worth it.t2 missiles have more negatives then there worth for the little extra damage they do. so i would not complain. if i would have know this from day 1 i would not have learned 9 million sp in missiles i would be using guns and doing 3x more damage then i am now."
"i find it silly that someone would think that the thousands of ideas that make up eve's ui could ever be considered a single issue and could ever be discussed in one sitting. the \"ui issue\" could maybe be split up into different categories, but probably not."
"not in the least. lavista vista is doing a good job imo. even if he did a crappy job, it is still better than i could do. don't second guess yourself, it is not worth it.-m"
"lmao actually i must be among the few ones here who, as westerner, experienced a frontal clash with communism, having to fight the general mindset & bureaucracy of a former varsaw pact member country when attempting to secure the relocation of a \"communist\" lady who became my wife, all this years before glasnost & perestroika kicked in and the wall finally fell.had to stay there over a year and ended learning the language  required if you really want to get things done .and you know what ? i've moved my ass through enough countries to loose count, but i will not forget that except for stupid civil servants, i've never interacted with such humane individuals like citizens of these ex-wapa nations.it's that simple. when the system puts you in deep poo, you help each other. no money will ever compensate lost social brotherhood despite my fat wallet and i've since long learned that finances only allow you to fool yourself by buying delusions. if you're not wise enough to be happy with what you have, big or small, no amount of money will do it.all that to say that most peeps have not the shadow of a clue when they talk about communism. was communism bad ? yes, in the way it was implemented. could communism be a good thing ? maybe, if individuals were advanced enough not to fall in the trap of replacing the influence of money with the mixed weight of a party affiliation card and a specific position. where did i encounter the most genuinely happy people ? in these poor countries. never found in the usa, europe or the me educated individuals who were simultaneously so sincerely aware about the mechanisms governing their societies, the limits that were artificially imposed to their development, and yet enjoyed their lives.i've risked jail when smuggling pc's & modems at cost for students in order to enable a few of them to open a window to the outer world and get aware. it was my way of fighting communism. now in the retrospective, all what capitalism brought there are a few guys who became stinking rich  all former exponents of the communist apparatus btw , and the rest is not only poorer than ever, but also struggling with an exponential criminality that didn't exist before.so idiots can continue to ********** with their empty rhetoric & theories. i'll stand by my actions, rl experience, and regrets that i actively fought a system which, at the end, wasn't half so bad as the pro-capitalist lobby would let you believe.got that from a 70-years old farmer whose parents were executed by russians at the end of ww2 because they refused to have their land nationalized: \"before, i could talk and everybody would listen. now i can scream and nobody pays attention\".and when talking about \"jade's controversial personality\", well, at least he has one"
"why is ccp dragging their feet approving and posting the minutes of meetings? not a single set of minutes have been posted, unless i've missed them. csm, please get on their cases about this."
"the minutes for the may 24th and may 31st online meetings are under the csm heading.but yes, i've been anticipating them for over a week now."
"the argument goes both ways. your constant banter against smash/northern coalition, is just well, childish and moronic no matter how you cut it."
"just wait until there are patchnotes that state \"as proposed and discussed by csm\". i guess there will be a lot of hate and flame again. :pjust keep an eye on the feature and ideas or game-develeopment boards. it's probably where everyone is these days."
"everybody comes out favourably when compared to european union politicians."
"amen."
"thank you bane, i'm sure you know more than i do about the theory/reality of these ships and i hope all the other csm members at least attempt to understand things they may of never experienced."
"/signed"
"the matar pilots dont seem to have a leg to stand on."
"agreed"
"signed"
"a multi billion ship being outdamaged by noob ships, needs fixed."
"i am not flying a phoenix  yet , but balancing capitals is very important because you cant just use another one  there are many bs/cruiser in for each race but only one dread "
"]  notify  loading the ammo into the projectile weapon; this will take approximately 10 seconds.personally i like the idea of smartbombs killing missiles, they're different from turrets and have advantages & disadvantages. trouble is on dreads, it's all disadvantages. they're very, very slow, and have limited range, making them completely useless in engagements over 130-140km and pretty duff at medium ranges. phoenixes can't really select their damage type  which is supposed to be one of the advantages of missiles . naglfars can select damage type but they have that oh so hated 50/50 weapon type split so you can't use damage mods on them.it comes down to dreadnaughts being completely unbalanced for the type of combat that's evolved around them. phonix/naglfar are severely lacking. we got the nid and chimera's problems worked out, now dreads need a look."
"not sure what happened to this proposal but since we didn't get to discuss it in iceland i think it definitely needs to be on the agenda for the next meeting."
"good idea."
"agreed. i never understood why you built ships  non packaged  into freightors, and i don't see any downside to it."
"yeah, would be a nice addition.2 remote reppers? :d/me is a fan of spider gangs."
"its good to have variety"
"we need the option of turning off or toning down the background nebulae brightness so that it doesn't interfere with the ui. sometimes it is very difficult to see things on the overview or tell what modules are activated due to the bleed-through of the bright nebulae.they are pretty but some of them are so bright that black space with stars would actually be preferable. in fact if i had that option i'd probably turn them off altogether."
"frackin a!  means i agree with the above "
"guess i have to reply to my own post to show my support for it..."
"yes, please let us tone down/turn off backgrounds."
"leave cloaks alone... theyre very hard to use on non cloakable ships as isthe only real problem here are isk farmers...those need to be hunted and kicked outwhy does some carebear in your space bother you so much... you can stay in system for a while... he wont be cloaked forever... he'll get bored and try to run or logthe ones sitting there 23/7 arent carebears... they're bot users the solution to those is banning everyone who plays actively for 23/7 because that's not possible without violating the eulathe same principle is applyed on highways  someplaces ... if you get to the toll too fast you get a speeding ticket... no other hard evidence needed, you've had to be speeding to get there that fast"
"what they need is fuel, i'd suggest heavy water since there seems to be a surplus."
"cloaks are the only counter to probes. not signed. if you want to nerf cloaks, nerf probes first.now something to keep a ship from cloaking and going afk for hours at a time i would support. a general nerf, no way."
"why is that an issue? there are lots of safe ways to make isk. ratting in 0.0 and running to hide whenever someone enters the system doesn't strike me as anything particularly overpowered or exploitive, because your isk making activity is so easily disrupted, even if your ship/pod are at minimal risk.if there is a problem, it is the ease with which local can be used to identify the presence of threats/targets."
"cloaks need to be changed, its really obnoxious to go through tcf / unl space and in every system there is a tcf/unl sponsored farmer from asia. they fit wcss and nanos and cloak. all i'm asking is that it is made so cloaking is very cap draining and you can't stay in that state for super long, or that i have a chance to probe through cloak."
"no support. the op is just another lazy pirate crying for easy kills.windjammer"
"the whole point to a cloak is just that. it cloaks you from being detected. if it were to be nerfed any further than it already has it will no longer be worthy of the \"cloak\" epithet. so a big definite no to this."
"imo having the non cov ops ships use fuel would be a good idea but other than that cloaks dont really need a nerf. if the ratters cant use cloaks they just go back to logging off."
"the op's idea is horrible. big no. ships need to be harder to find and kill - not less."
"if you have skilled up to use the cov-ops/recon/black-ops ships then you should have the benefit of using a cloaking device to it's fullest abilities. if on the other hand you have trained up your toon to farm isk in your raven and want a system that guarantee's your safety by letting you cloak, then the answer is no you should not be allowed the same abilities that a specialist cloaking gains.i'm not talking about cloaked speeds/locking times after de-cloaking or those type of abilities. the abilities i'm talking about is the 100% guaranteed ability to hide from any ships in the system. gaining that ability in my mind is fundamentally wrong and is sending out the wrong message about cloaking.for me it's simple, if your in a specialised cloaking ship then you will be 100% undetectable. if on the other hand your in a farming raven then you do not get that 100% undetectability, in some way to be determined you would be detectable. there are suggestions already in this thread as to how that could be done, but at the end of the day something has to be done about all the isk farmers in 0.0 without impacting on the specialised cloaking shiptypes."
"fighting around stations has always been a sorry mess."
"it would probably make my life harder, but add fun, so sure."
"/signed"
"well the ammout of gtc's that were sold made eve have this huge popular success and i'm 100% it was the best cash income for ccp. doing so getting bigger priceingz ccp will lose more subscribers and not only that will lose people that had ammouts of alts and now they`ll keep main + 1 or 2 chars.. i for one had 6 accoutns .. now i`ll stick 2 one and leave the others unpaid. in time ccp will lose.wow and all the other products comming from blizzard are premium aswell so it ain't just eve.ok we pay more but we still get the hardcore lag in fleet fights. still the stupid game mechaincs with pos and titan's .. it still the old game we started paying 4 - 5 years ago. ccp were forced to evolved and improve quality otherwise they would have bankruped allready. just my 2 cents"
"i gotta say that this was a bad idea in the history of bad idea's. gtcs are now up by 200mil for every gtc now which for a carebare like me cannot make that much a month in order to play the game now... so the option of using isk just to play i can no longer do and to be honnest, the average player wont either be able to afford 400mil every 2 months... thats a sh!t load of missioning and mining non stop and some ppl do actually have lives to live. so thats one point thats really screwed me up royaly as a player for me personally...2ndly, an increase in fee is absolutely retarted, in order for me pay to play, i have to spend 35 bucks wth? and dont tell me thats industry standard... thats *******s.... im sorry but that is, every online game has a 30day subscription fee, all of them... if i want to pay for 60 or 90 days, i want to have the option, if i wanna jus pay monthly fee's for it, well that should be my descision shouldn't it? taking away all the options really screws everyone up and not everyone is gonna be willing to do it. i love eve, i've loved it ever since i first saw it and played it... but now im forced and limited in my options to play it, use isk just to play it and leave nothing in my wallet for ships or losses, or pay more then i was before... a totally stupid idea and yes it might sort out some of the farming/scamming to a degree, but at what cost? you should really take a look at the timecard forums... you jus raised the prices by 200% more or less.... thanks a lot"
"true.i know what phbbb and others can do, this forum here is a joke.since phpbb is open source i guess it would be even possible to add the character portraits and stuff. and a nice eve theme  in fact i have adapted themes for another forum once, this was phpbb .therefore: /signed"
"thumbs up"
"yes."
"i'm putting this on the agenda for sundays csm meeting. i think its a vital issue and it needs to be right on the top of the agenda the next time we meet with ccp. fw can only be improved by allowing long term rp alliances to fully integrate with the ongoing struggle and i believe its wrong in principle to deny game content to the existing player base."
"the only people excluded from fw are those that don't have standings with the empires. it is you that is denying yourself game content because you refuse to leave your alliance. there's nothing stopping you from making an out of alliance corp and moving any members who want to participate in fw into it.i don't see what the big deal is tbh.not supported"
"no way. leave 0.0 to the alliances and 0.1 + space to the fw groups."
"this issue is something to be combined with rodj's thread on the same subject and will be brought up on sunday."
"yes, yes, supported, obv. if alliances aren't active in fw, it can't act as a bridge to 0.0. i really have difficulty understanding why the devs don't see that."
"faction warfare's got more people into pvp now in groups, presumably they're utilizing eve voice for the majority of voice comms. there's been recent attention in patches to get things more stable, which is a good thing. anyone i've spoken to who's used eve voice has mentioned now the integration is great, and the quality is about a billion times better than teamspeak  arguably the more common of the third part voip tools used by players .isn't it now about time eve voice gets the feature we need, and a lot of people have been waiting for since it was first integrated into the eve client? the feature that would make it infinitely more useful than it is now?the external client.i say the external client, because this was a feature vivox has touted in the past. it exists, what does not is the provision for it in eve. the idea is that you would run the external client on your system and if eve dies you don't lose your connection to the channel s  you were speaking in.is this even in the cards for us here, and if so what might the timeline be? i know historically the addition of features to the client has taken a staged approach, but eve voice has moved along at the pace of a snail moving against an icelandic coastal wind.i know this still wouldn't make it a 100% replacement for third party services, but this would be a huge boost for adopting eve voice as a primary method of comms during ops for a lot of organizations.ccp? please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"external vivox client? i would dig that."
"may the force be with you."
"external eve voice client? tarminic like."
"ts/ventrilo > eve voice"
"troll much?"
"love eve voice, if we had an external client for it too i might just have a sex wee."
"iirc ccp wanted to charge for it when it first came out. once it becomes well used whats to stop them hitting us with a subscription fee for it ? once alliances and corps become more dependant on it"
"eve voice is actually pretty good, fw lets it shine : "
"you could say the same about the forums, or t2 gear. i think what you're remembering, rather incorrectly, was some statements which came out early on that the inclusion of an external client would essentially be like providing a voip service independent of the game, in a way. thus, additional cost.i guess it all depends on the capabilities of it. i don't know if it's possible to require the game client to initiate comms to the voice service and the external client can only get a hand off from the game, then back to it.my point of this is that there's probably a lot of questions such as these, yet there's been no information on whether the option's even being entertained. if not, why not? if yes, then what's taking so long? : there were all sorts of goodies which were possible from the vivox end, such as being able to tie in actual phone calls to the service. imagine having your ceo dial in by cell to be in a corp meeting, that kind of thing  it was even demonstrated at fanfest two years ago .all of that is nothing compared to the ability to make a voice session withstand a client crash."
"actually the voice feature we need most isn't really eve voice at all, it's a fleet feature: an option to let people who get disconnected get automatically reinvited to the fleet upon logging back in.the biggest problem with eve voice for me is that there's no way to say \"hey, i got disconnected, invite me back to the fleet\" after a d/c.if there's some game reason for kicking people out of fleets upon d/c, then an eve voice feature to let them reconnect to fleet chat at least would be most useful."
"i have no idea who you've been talking to blinky, any time i've tried eve voice the quality was worse than two polystyrene cups with a piece of string between them. i last tried it about 6 months ago, i struggled to understand corp mates and they couldn't understand me whereas with ts we have no problems. i also found i couldn't work out which of my corp mates was talking despite knowing their voices really well from ts. we found it too poor to use for a conversation let lone combat ops."
"it's not really trolling when it's true."
"you should give it a go now. the quality isn't bad at all to be honest and if you tick the box in the eve voice menu that put the last person to speak to the top of the list it helps a lot."
"i vote yes, to fellow militias to help out another militia that has been wardec, with a click of a button at no cost for the wardec."
"yes"
"i agree with the basic suggestion but think that as proposed it would be abused in several ways like high sec corps joining fw for easy and cheap protection. it would probably be best to limit the number of corps that can sign up to help. make it a function of the victim corp's militia standing or some such  and then require the victim to approve joins so they don't get get stuck with a bunch of 2 person corps . i think this would limit the abuse potential because only active corps could get real help from it.just my .02 isk, but i definitely support the op's suggestion over the current system that makes fw membership such a liability.edit: then again, the entire problem wouldn't exist if the fleet member of war target = war target thing hadn't changed. it seems like that change has caused a lot of problems and undoing it might be a better fix  would also fix the non fw remote reppers we can't shoot, which is just cowardice ."
"no. fw =/= alliance."
"well its going to get more people involved in wardecs in empire and thats got to be a good thing"
"supported. i love the idea of new ships that represent these factions and fill out the rosters - they can add color to the background and variety to the playing field. good idea."
"this is cool and i would strongly support proceeding with this as a top priority. it would also be nice, but not absolutely required, that if your secondary skill then completed before you could login to set a new primary one, it would just continue to the next level but if it then also completed without any further login, it would stop there and go no further.again this would maybe just be a nice little extension to the primary/secondary skill queue but i can see that some may not think it's such a good idea as they may think we are asking for too much!something else that just crossed my mind, and which i've not seen mentioned previously, is that if say for instance the sp that your current clone grade was rated for was exceeded by the completed skills, there could be a message/notification of some sort once you logged in again to remind you that you should upgrade your clone to the next suitable level.maybe this could be in the form of an eve-mail, a flashing on your character's skill sheet clone entry or a dialog box that will allow you to jump into the current station's med-lab  assuming you are in a staion with a med-lab that is . but basically something that draws your attention to the discrepancy before you go and get yourself podded and loose the points you;ve just accumulated. if you then still go out without upgrading your clone and get podded then tough *****, you were warned!"
"can you hear those faint voices in the background behind you...................it says \"exploits\"~no to skill queue~sorry guys but, developing methods to allow skill changing through either the web or mobile phone, yes /signed"
"yes god please."
"yeah. right. like a wfe or mobile phone method of changing a skill in training isn't going to be exploitable at all. get real.as it stands if macro-ers can exploit mining using macro software it's going to be p!ss easy for them to macro the current skill sheet or have some poor sods who are paid peanuts in some third-world country to sit at a bank of computers just clicking through the skills as they complete.by giving ordinary players the ability to queue up a secondary skill, or whatever the implementation will actually be, it gives us all more flexibility and will actually give real players more power while giving the macros/farmers very little advantage, if any, in relative terms."
"no."
"looks like the issue is resolved:"
"rejoice! dual training is cool... i like that idea."
"skill queue."
"/signed"
"can't fault kovid's reasoning here. i think it would a bad idea to shuffle fw off to its own ghetto forum. its supposed to be a bridge for new players to experience alliance level warfare and as a mechanic to allow the eve plotline to be influenced and experienced by existing players. eve is a single server environment where everything is interconnected - fw should never get hived away into a little instance all of its own.i support changing the descriptions of the categories kovid suggests but oppose setting up entirely new forums for fw."
"agreedneeds a seperate spot for fwi was yust looking for abit info about fw, hows it gooing etc and its a mess when seperate it wil be alot easier to stay uptodate"
"the more i think about the more i think this is the issue.mineral prices work  even when broken like they are now because of drops  because they are tied to player time. moon minerals are only subject to the number of towers online. and because how sov works, you have hundreds of towers that are only there for sov. and...might as well throw up a mining array because hell gotta try and cover the cost right?i think changing it so that moon minerals require player time, along with changing the distribution of minerals or adding alternate blueprints would go a long way towards fixing the broken situation."
"what a load of bull. it is very easy to create that risk. just slap in med slots full of shield extenders. most likely the ganker will miscalculate, assault, fail, lose his ship but not get any reward.that's what i always do, my innocent looking haulers are actually quite as touch as battleships some people even have fallen into it, it always makes my day imho you skilless lame newbie dorks should learn how to play the game instead of whining.yeah, i'm sure the gankers that spend \"hours\" scanning down ships fall for this all of the time. funny how freightors with 205,910 effective hp  all level v skills  can be killed by gankers but your maxed out badger with all level 5 skills and 4 shield extenders  due to pg constraints  giving it a 13,764 effective hp seem to baffle the gankers. a caldari navy raven with a full out tank setup has a 99,963 effective hp but still seem to die. your hauler must be awsome.either that or you are known to lie. i will go with the latter.so why do these ships die so easily? quite simple, they get full insurance back for the loss of the ship, regardless if they are successful or not, so they can afford to put a 6 ravens with heat and insta pop anything in their path  2 volleys .or use a bunch of domis with drones, your choice. either way it costs you nothing and the other player has no way around it  unless they somehow get hold of your jove hauler that you must be flying around .math, is fun isn't it? just kind of cuts through all the bs and lies doesn't it?nobody is saying remove ganking, that would be stupid, high sec should not be complete safe, but should not 100% favor the attacker either. just add some risk back to the gankers, ie, they had better damn well be sure they kill that hauler / pimp bs / freightor to make it worth while or they *gasp*, run the risk of losing isk as a result  see how the risk & reward works in that equation? . all there is right now is reward with really only boredom as a result waiting for a juicy target to show up. also the game should not have to rely on 2 accounts to live in high sec."
"yeah, log on an alt  oh this requires a second account , warp to the gate where you are about to get attacked, aggress anything, draw concord into the area, if they attack you, they die as concord will have already been deployed to the grid.or log on an alt to scout your ship through every high sec system to insure there are no camps setup  oh, this requires a second account to .i would be 100% fine with these options if they did not require a second person or alt to get around it. i don't think we should discourage people being able to play the game solo in high sec.low sec, null sec is a different story."
"missing the point completely itt."
"wow, way to prove me wrong!"
"solution: move all lvl 4 missions and agents to low-sec. there. problem solved. no suicide ganking because there is no concord, and folks can battle in.. um battleships."
"firstly whilst solo play options exist eve is a multi-player game thats just the way it is, secondly level 4 missions are very easy, to the point where its easily done in none faction load outs, you say you want more risk for the gankers while you have none at all.the facts are quite simple, it is easy to counter suicide ganking, but i'm not telling you how, also there is no risk in level 4 missions unless you try to run before you can walk or you're a simpleton.change the insurance payout, i'll still suicide gank in hi sec whether its a hauler or a mission runner, and why will i still do it, because i know there's still stupid/greedy people out there that will insist on trying to do as much as possible alone so they can maximize their isk flow."
"it's not awesome. it is more awesome than what they expect. no use killing a fly with atom bomb. if you think it's fly, might be or might not be. that's the whole point. no one really forces you into using the ships you use, the way you use them, and when you use them. tbh there is not enough high sec ganking in the game, everyone should get at least free frigate once per week specifically for it to keep skilless players on toes it's a shame that very likely all your lame whining will have some effect, and we'll make yet another step towards hello kitty online."
"agreed, trouble is the little bit of common sense that we find so useful which they seem to so desperately to need cant be trained thru a rank 1 skill, f*ck them, like you say, just another step towards \"hello kitty in space\", listen to these b3llends ccp and the game you spent so much time creating will become exactly what you didn't envisage."
"agreed"
"total agreement. in real life you won't get anything of an insurance company if you damage something during a criminal act."
"yes, i want to make it more like hello kitty online. simply because you as the ganker don't want to increase any risk to yourself. read carefully. i am not against ganking, i am against the insurance payouts for them. allow transferable kill rights as well. but i am sure that you will complain about both of those, as you really don't want any risk for yourself. btw, hello kitty is"
"another whiner joins the fray. i love the ganker tears that there may be risk to their profession, while they complain about carebears that have no risk! ganker: \"i want to be safe in high sec blowing up whomever i want with no risk to myself!!! stupid level 4 carebears have no risk to themselves\"  which i agree with incidently rest of the game: \"lets introduce risk to the gankers since they complain that there is not enough risk in the game\"ganker: \"omg whine, no, i don't want risk for me, i want risk for everyone else. i want to do whatever i want without penalty and get the full payout for my ship when i lose it\"i love the tears!"
"not sure why this is still going on tbh. the issue got raised, supported, and presented to ccp. there was agreement from the devs that suicide ganking does need making more difficult with additional sec penalties for participating  non final blow  ships and insurance loss was also on the table. its done and dusted people and on the list of priority issues for fixing! chill be happy!"
"we just like to argue"
"the real issue is that there was no issue. don't attempt to fix something that wasn't broken.you know, it was made to their attention due the whines  aka democracy? . you have to always keep in mind that although 900 billion flies like eating ****, it perhaps still isn't actually very good. even ancient greeks understood it and named it argumentum ad populum.hello kitty online seems to rule."
"until they make it so i can refuse to do business with people via the market system and have my economic revenge upon the military specialists who have forced me to redesign my logistics and business systems, suicide ganking needs a serious cost benefit redesign."
"itt we learn about noob corp alts."
"i believe that if i am willing and spends more effort than you in market by regulary refreshing my orders, i deserve to get my orders filled before you."
"very good ideas and if things like this got into the development schedule and rolled out for missions it might even tempt me to actually do some. its a good issue and i'm happy to support it."
"i am opposed to removing agent quality. the reason for opposing this is that it transforms the location of mission running to be more of a network effect. mission runners will gravitate to running missions in a system convenient to a major market. because of the network effects we would have even more mission runners, industrialists, pirates, and day traders in the same systems. it would increase lag and avatars in mission systems and make the problem worse. dynamic quality would be frustrating. given the cyclical play cycles, it would be difficult to play during prime times. it would turn mission running into a hunt for an unused agent fest.. which in the end significantly reduces mission runner income and enjoyment. it could easily cost the mission runner more time than the current lag. currently, mission runners have the option to pick a new location. they have not. until it looks like players are changing behaviors, the system may not need changing. if fixing the mission hubs is the problem, move 50% of the high quality agents to low population systems. i suspect that the mission runners are in mission hubs due to network effects... and would not move. defeating metcalf's law is going to be difficult."
"i like the idea of the proposed dynamic agent qualities. there still needs to be some thought to the way the reward system will work with low sec over high sec, but in general i think the system has a lot of merit...you've got my thumbs up."
"agreed. link to older suggestion for the same thing with a few additions."
"you are very wrong ulstan. i love my caldari ships for pvp and if i was allowed to post killboard links on the forums i'd be happy to prove it. i voted for the nighthawk issue and i'm voting for this issue too. support."
"has got my vote!"
"/this needs a fix!"
"exactly this."
"considering jade's philosophy and the purpose of sf, it would make sense for all four major empires to make sf members persona non grata and targeted by fw navies. for him to argue that everything is working as intended is somewhat false. his own stated agendas would require sf to be hounded by the same npcs as any militia, except he'd have no safe haven."
"now it's 199..."
"i support this idea based solely on what i have seen in this thread.most of the commentary jade has made is essentially without base or substance and comes across as condescending. he clearly demonstrates a lack of basic respect for the other csm members and players, seeming to only care about his ideas and how things affect him.he further demonstrates a lack of concern for how this is making the csm look even more ridiculous than many already see it.ccp should consider stepping in and tossing him, maybe that can help salvage the csm from the failure it gets closer to becoming daily."
"even as someone who typically tries to avoid the bloody politics in theses forums i find this thread absolutely appalling. i admit i only read the first 5 and last 5 pages, but the gist of this seems to be one of these 2 things: 1. ranting that someone is acting like a troll in an influential position when in fact that person acted like a troll before winning a popular vote of the player base to get there.2. ranting that a first time committee chair failed to effectively handle disorderly conduct in the first few meetings of a brand new committee.in response to the first type of complaint, what did you expect?in response to the second, have you ever served on an ad-hoc committee? a jury maybe? the first few meetings/discussions are going to be rough, the important part is that the situation was brought under control in reasonable time  yes 4 meetings is reasonable, at least it is in corporate america .now i am just curious to see how this post will get flamed."
"i respectfully disagree with your opinion, though i respect your right to have and state said opinion.do i win at flaming? :d"
"i too agree with you for the most part, as its not the whole commitee silencing thing on meeting two that has me up in arms, its a combination of that on top of his general attitude to anything that is not on his personal agenda."
"exactly. stop having your own opinion jade. afterall youre a spaceship politician."
"i started readibng this in support of jade.. it's jades responses that prove the point rather then dispute it."
"201 in support of removal +/-2% or so."
"rubbish.at release there was no default insurance, and we didn't all quit when we lost a ship.we got in the free replacement n00b ship with its basic mining laser, and got back out there and earned some isk.no insurance is a far better proposal than selective insurance."
"no support, removal of insurance is what is needed"
"^this. i look forward to the day when i can afford to fly a t2 vessel but i can see how it will be a right royal kick in the teeth if no sooner than i take my shiny new craft out for a shakedown, some <rp mode on> jumped up little punks </rp mode off> in a bunch of lowly t1's come and end it at very little risk to themselves and they are the ones to get insurance payouts! obviously if i take a t2 out without the supporting skills & modules to properly defend & tank it in the first place that's another story altogether!^this i also like. i really can't see why we can't also insure modules. some of them can cost just as much as the ship itself and often more. i agree that it shouldn't be a full payout but still about 60-80% would help towards replacing costly modules.^this. if you consistantly go out and lose your ships then you should expect your premiums to increase just as it would in rl. whether you keep losing them due to you being a suicide ganker or just through your own darned stupidity in not learning from your prior losses is moot.^this. maybe there would be an option when you insure a ship that in the event of a loss you either have the payout as it is at the moment or you could choose to have a new ship issued instead. there could then be a delay so that if you choose a new ship you won't receive it immediately but there is a 24hr delay for it to be delivered to a designated station hanger.^this, above all, at the very least is needed."
"insurance is a faucet, one which injects the game world with isk, something we actually need less of in the game for the market to work correctly. adding insurance would only serve to increase the cost of t2 items and components because the t2 market has bottlenecks unlike the t1 market. t1 is governed by player time, demand increases. prices increase for mins. those mins become valuable and people go get them in whatever required amounts to bring supply back in line with demand reaching an equalization point.t2 does not have that luxury. 80% of all t2 is comprised of 2 moon minerals, the rarest of the bunch to be exact. moon minerals supply are governed by time, and time alone. no amount of player interaction will serve to increase the supply, and really what we are seeing is actually the pressure of that demand on such limited supply.adding insurance, adds demand on an already limited supply. and has the added drawback of buffing the isk sink of that ship allowing more isk to be spent in the system. basically what you would be left with is a spiraling of prices upward, pretty much negating your insurance and increasing the entry barrier for new players since other faucets will remain the same.if you want t2 insurance, it needs to be player operated. that way no new isk enters the game but only changes hands. and when items are destroyed, they are sunk out of the game and isk is effectively removed."
"signed. nh is short by about 200 grid. anyone with a little common sense can see that it is massively lacking in fitting options compared to the other command ships."
"it never got to iceland because it was voted down in meeting five."
"i'm not sure what else can be done. i think that the pg issue is as clear as day. abundant modelled fits and comparisons were provided, but if the other csm members disagree - or, from the transcripts, simply didn't care - then what can we do?a possible course of action may be to ask for the useless missile precision bonus to be changed to one of explosion velocity. if that is accepted, then the anaemic pg issue could be subtlely tagged on.unfortunately, what will probably happen is we'll be told that the nighthawk is perfectly fine in pve, and that the precision bonus is wonderful for hitting tackler frigs in l4 missions..."
"well since we've now met face to face its possible that the other csm's might be a little more worried that hardin and i might throw them into the river if they say caldari is only for pve next time ? i'd say go for it."
"ok. at some stage in the next few days i'll make a megapost, describing the current pvp use of the precision bonus  hitting all those abing scimitars, destroyers and frigates , and then modelling the effects of a 50% bonus to explosion velocity on a nighthawk's precision lights and heavies against inties and nanocruisers.i haven't run the numbers at all really, but i suspect that it wouldn't be overpowered, given the short ranges of precisions and the nighthawk's absence of a missile velocity bonus. the issue is somewhat complicated by the concurrent calls for a boost to precision heavies, though. personally, i feel that the whole system of explosion velocity and explosion radius on precisions needs a thorough overhaul. i posted some ideas here but such a big change would require a lot of work to make sure it was balanced..."
"to be honest, i think it's optimistic to hope that most of the csms will do anything for the nighthawk, or anything that is outside their personal realm of interest. a few csms have illustrated an objective interest in addressing isssues. however, most of them have done nothing but address issues in which they have a personal investment.this thread  and the original linked thread  are absolutely filled with nearly indisputable numbers and proof that the nighthawk has a serious problem. i've challenged people to come forth with setups for the ship that would illustrate it being unbalanced with a grid increase of about 170 pg. to this day no one has yet to respond with anything other than an uninformed opinion, as i've seen no one present a counterargument against this proposal using actual facts.that the csms could even read this thread  assuming they did, which is itself a stretch  and not feel compelled to address this issue is fairly solid proof that they are incompetent and/or self-interested. that the devs have ignored this issue and the original thread for this long is utterly astounding. i think hoping that you can take a different tack and have this issue addressed by the csm committee through another thread  and more numbers and proof  is unrealistic, as they would have to care about the issue and be intelligent enough to understand the problem, both of which seem, in light of the current evidence, unlikely or impossible.in the long run all this thread and its failure to be understood or considered by the csms has proven to me is that i voted for a few of the wrong people. i will not make that mistake a second time."
"oh and yes of course they should be random to encourage people to undock more often, static will only lead to more scouts flying around."
"/signage"
"i see those ports and i want to be able to use them, but not just randomly. i want to be able to pick the port most aligned with my destination. saves me the trouble of flying around the station."
"i think it would be great if we could define our own songs that will be played in certain situations.  deadspace, combat, etc... or if thats too complicated at least make sure that \"johann straus - the blue danube\" plays everytime you are in warp approaching a station to dock."
"very good idea, i could use that to get rid of some nonsense skills which i got by mistake+1"
"i thing the tear 2 bc would be cool"
"someone has the link to this log? and the other too possibly? searching for it with the search function don't give useful results."
"i'd like to see this issue come up for csm vote again. would it be possible for white ronin and others posting good ideas in this thread to make a new issue thread around the principle of enhancing the exploration profession in general and allowing it to be something that individual characters can do. basically lets re-write the op and resubmit and this time we'll make damn sure it gets a fair hearing and open discussion in the csm and all the related issues are fully considered."
"or perhaps have an annonymous submission mechanism for authors to offer ideas to ccp, but not in a public forum. i believe at the minimum it would be helpful to get an update from mercury on what their efforts are focusing on.do you think a wiki would be the best way to provide the online workspace to accomplish this connection?"
"please use commas or periods as appropriate to your region to separate all numbers numbers ingame. for instance, 129000 creditsshould now read129,000 creditsin the us and 129.000 credits for europeans."
"supported, however bear in mind that the standard notation here in the uk is also 10,000,000.00 so using the \".\" as a separator would create confusion with values that aren't full isk.also, the separators should be added while you type ratheer than once you stop typing to make it clearer as to what value you've just inputed in a given dialogue box."
"disagreea lot of work: see herefor no real effectin my country it should be 1.000,00 and i don't care if it's not regionalized correctly, as long as i can read it so 1 000.001,000.001.000,00are all fine with meoh, and in my country if the number is currency then the separator is oposite so it should be 1,000.00iski do however agree that all numbers in game should be thousand separated for easy reading... and they are for most part, but not all"
"my idea about selling stuff herei also agree on this topicwe need a beter ui hotkeys are a very good start... this issue is raised a lot with diferent focuses and solutionshere's onether was one focusing on the change all ammo type issue  cant find it now i've seen others just dont feel like searching and linking them right now"
"i support the suggested improvements to the eve backstory in terms of clearing up inconsistencies of the type described in the original post.i would suggest to ccp that ginger provide the community with some idea of the work mercury is up to these days. are they desperately in need of new volunteers? would they consider starting a thread or wiki to enlist the community's help in cleaning up the backstory? thanks."
"bringing this up on sunday - + some stuff about self destruct times from thread on that subject."
"i like this, all the points  and rationale  are very true."
"i support all of these, although to me killmails don't mean much, but definitely the dd things are an issue, and i for one can't imagine why the game state is the way it is."
"/signedalliance/corp logos on ships: hell yes. no reason not to, and we've already seen screenshots of this working. there's no reason not to release it.custom paintjobs: could be done one of two ways, to avoid lag problems:1  do it like homeworld 2, where you have pre-set areas to paint, but you can make those pre-set areas any color you like. for example, the thorax is always a solid base color, with those raised areas a second solid color. so maybe you could make yours black with green trim, yellow with pink trim, whatever you like. maybe you could also pick from a couple color schemes, such as the vigilant camo  again with your choice of what colors those areas are . so all you'd have to send to each client is something like1255,255,255125,215,4037,37,119the first line gives the color scheme, then the other lines specify which color is assigned to that area. it doesn't result in any more lag than having custom ship names does, and that feature is working just fine with no complaints.2  allow only a set list of pre-loaded skins. this would include the ccp-created skins  t2 variants, and maybe add some more , or maybe even allow players to submit their own, like pirates of the burning sea does, or how ccp allows alliance logo submissions. if the skin meets ccp's quality standards  there are people in the community who could do it , it's included in the next patch. this adds absolutely no server lag, everything is stored client-side and all the server has to send you is a single number to tell your client which skin to display."
"eh i will support this, but i don't know if we should allow custom paint jobs on the ship skins themselves, a corporate and/or alliance logo would be cool though. reason why not to have custom paint jobs? could you imagine a goonswarm blob? all with black and yellow bands? =p. would give me a headache."
"great idea - i would love to make my ships more unique. especially if you can put alliance/corp logos on them as well."
"zomg supr lojik ftwkaraktr portritz ar zent by teh servr dummaz. unlez u r sugestn tht evrytym u logn tht eve givs u teh pikturz. now for those who have spell check and/or can speak english, and are over 12 - if i go and create a character, and then you meet me in game, and you right click and get my portrait, where does that info come from? does your client magically know what i look like and what's in my bio, or does the server have to include that information? yes, it does cache some of that info, but it has to be loaded the first time we meet. are we to suggest that ccp is going to take and pre-make every possible paintjob out there for every ship in every color and preload it on your client? how do you get the \"this color goes here on this guys ship\" info. from where does that come from?\"you load on to the local grid with \"bob yaketyschmakety\" and he is in a raven and he has a custom paint job with 10 different colors on the thing. where did you get his layout from? was it already preloaded on your client? of course not, because the guy just bought the raven and painted it with the nose of it being silver, the wings a bright shade of blue and he put stripes on the side. how did your client know that?sure the base raven model, which is standard for every raven was on your client, but where did you get his custom paint job info  skin  from? lets say you have a fleet of 150 ppl. the load on grid with another 150, why is it laggy if everything is on your client already? the lag comes from character specific into that has to be loaded from the server. do we want to add more information to that?now lets say i just created a corp. i also created a logo with that corp. do you have my corps specific layout already loaded on your client? </deadhorse>also as a note, everyone who votes here and gives stipulations, you are voting on an idea that was made in the first post. please read the first post. the idea was for custom paint jobs and logos.if you say, \"yes!\" and then add on, but only if we don't do custom paint jobs, you've just voted for custom paint jobs. your idea is not counted unless this guy modifies his original post. you are voting on the issue as presented. if you are not for everything, and you vote yes, then you have just agreed to everything.while you make a good point on the lag and system overhead issues. don't worry too much about the being bound to the exact issue text if supporting things. thats not really the case. if we did decide to support an issue like this then it would be presented in general terms without being bound to the specific implementation ideas. its certainly possible to generally support discussion of a subject without feeling obliged to support every single word in the op post."
"i run an overclocked quad-core system.it still takes forever to load the list of members in an alliance, or a list of corp advertisements.why, you ask?because the server must send ids for each layer and color of the corp logo. for the computer to smush those together is really easy; but the server needs to recall them and send them down. no, it's not just \"oh lookie, 1 byte * 42 ships = 42 bytes!\" no. ever looked at tcp/ip traffic? ever considered that maybe the server would also need to communicate the id of the player? ever consider that perhaps we use 32-bit color? ever consider that there is plenty of overhead in sending and receiving information?elisa day is correct: alliance logos is perfectly reasonable because that results in zero extra server calls and the rendering is merely sticking an image  not a generated one, just a saved texture  onto a ship in a specific location. this means zero change to the server, and absolute minimal change to the client as far as performance impact goes.corp logos, on the other hand, would result in way too many server calls, and that layering process would add up on the client when loading a grid. as for paintjobs, seriously? do any of you respect the atmosphere and feel which ccp has given to the game? there's a reason the revelation is gold, the phobos is a dildo, and the tempest looks like it's rusting through. the art department has spent a lot of time making that all look good; don't screw it up with \"llolloloololll my ship is purple\"."
"screw technical issues, that's not for us to sort out. this would be wicked rad, i'd waste millions of isks to get a sweet paint job and maybe custom rims on my rifters."
"disagree.to get close to the dps of a tachyon abadon a hyperion needs a magnetic stabilizer with his 8 425mm railguns. with that it still has lower dps than the abadonand the 8 guns put such a strain on the powergrid of the hyperion that you have fo fit a rcu to fit a repairerso the hyperion needs to use up 2 low slots to get close to the abadon, and the abadon needs to use 2 low slots to fit rcu-s. the hyp still has lower dps. and dont mention cap usage because with this fitting the abadon can fire guns for 2min 45sec and the hyperion for 2min 58secand the abadon has 5 lows to play with after that... the hyp only 4the tachyons are overpowerd and as such it's fitting requirements are just finei compared hyperion because i'm gallente and i know the trouble fitting it... but im shure the caldari and minmantar bs-es would have the same problems. the top tier bs-es should be hard to fit and fly"
"tach ii has crazy grid requirments only to stop other races from using them. this was back in the days when ravens used lasers etc. try fitting a geddon with 7 tach ii and a mwd and see how much fun that is.that was the only reason for the big changes to tach ii fitting.people who talk dps should talk dps over 10 mins or sustainable dps. they should also look at dps on real fitted ships and not a 0% resist paper."
"yep. + it would a real shame to have walking in stations rolled out and no way to walk around a mothership or titan in the future."
"when i am bored i find myself in the help channel helping out, but when i start talking current eve events and politics i get shouted down. why not institute a general chat channel?"
"yep be nice for fw members to be able to post on caod without being deleted"
"streamlining overview, making it more horizontally compact and efficient. i like it!only problem is people identifying a militia even more with an alliance for game mechanic arguements."
"good idea."
"good day all.i would like to raise the issue of corp standings, and the current limit of direct corp to corp/alliance standings being capped at 250.many would say that this is sufficent, and in most cases i would tend to agree, but i was talking to some folks about it and it was brought up that many corps that are in 0.0 and not in alliances seem to have trouble with this amount being 250 and not higher. with there being so many new alliances being formed all the time, and new player corps i can see their point of view. i ask if there is a reason that it can not be increased in order to accommodate such corps, as i can not see how it would impact the game in any negative way. please do correct me if a am wrong though. thoughts and opinion are more than welcome, i only ask that they be constructive.thanks you."
"250k for a titan is not enough me thinks. not that anyone would do that instead of a dd."
"yes."
"i agree that it should cause area damage. perhaps they could even have the 'approach' option changed into 'ram' while self destruct is activated, maybe even timing the arrival with detonation time.about the kill mails, i don't think i understand what you are trying to say, but i think the mails should be sent to the parties engaging the self destructor, final blow goes to self destructor.i don't agree with getting podded automatically.also, another reason to self destruct would be if your ship is  about to be  boarded, but that's not possible either."
"supported. definitely adds to the quality of the backplot and immersion in the storyline. might mean ccp has to hire some more content and storyline people and i'd support that too!"
"yep what we really need is an archive category - and csm's could do with limited forum mod tools purely in the assembly hall to move completed issue threads to the archive.  either that or just task the forum mods to do the moving where csm reps ask for it at the thread "
"absolutely terrible idea. please go play wow."
"i like the general idea and its definitely worthy of discussion and yep - its a big visionary idea of just the sort i think ccp would be interested at looking into. support raising this as discussion and i'd like to see a lot more opinions on this."
"leave the carriers alone plz.. may be fix the nidhoggur but other wise..."
"leave carriers alone!we do not know that a nerf for carriers is coming from ccp. we do know that the suggestion of a nerf was met with a titanic fire storm of unprecedented proportions by the subscriber base. some posters were very inventive in describing various methods of creating pain, suffering and death for the poor fellow who made the suggestions, ccp zuulupark.ccp expressed a concern that carriers were too much of a jack of all trades and has seemed satisfied to nerf the carriers cargo carrying ability.what the heck is with some peoples obsession of nerfing everything. eat some rocky mountain oysters and go to bed......alone......without your bottle of beer.windjammer"
"leave carrier alone!!!!!"
"yep, no problem with carriers - lets concentrate on real issues not manufactured ones please."
"i'd love there to be an option on the settings screen to click \"word filter on/off\" but the problem is ccp's forum software is frankly rubbish. they know it, we know it. its on the list of things to be upgraded/fixed/replaced and this will happen over the next year or so but really, until thats done don't hold your breath on forum improvements. as for simply turning off the filter - i can't see that flying because they do see these forums as a showcase/selling point for the game and some controls are needed. that said i'd definitely like to go over the list with an iron pipe because it is ridiculous that words like gay and the****utic are filtered.-edit they unfiltered gay! excellent"
"got my vote. i still play with all my graphic effects on i'm a sucker for beautiful explosions and weapon effects."
"yep, sounds good. i'd be inclined to consider a similar link for the fw channels too."
"as the title say. finding the csm logs with the search function is pretty difficult and getting them buried in the forums is heavily counter productive as they are important to judge if and should be re-elected.so add a sticky with the links to all the csm discussions."
"tbh this section needs a lot of sorting out and stickying the meetings logs here will just add to to the mess. what we need is an additional forum category to move the issue threads we've addressed out of the active discussion section. at the moment this category is messed up with old issues we've already dealt with.if you want to see the logs at the moment feel free to read them at the sf forums public section"
"as far as the technical side goes, we already have some of the tools to already do this. the market!as it is, the market tracks orders, potential profit, and even forecasts.now, as far as an actual stock market, i think we would need to first look at how the real world stock market works, as far as analytical tools available.for an idea of how it would look: yahoo financialspersonally, i would start small, and only do npc corporations to start with. the reason being, is to basically.. \"beta\" test the market.how would the npc market work?- profits  taxes, items sold, facilities used - repair station, jump clones, etc.. - losses  items bought, operational costs -> ie: agent payouts the market would start small, and a limited number of shares  say.. 1000 per station owned by the corporation .now, how this would evolve into player corporations, well.. i would suggest that ccp hire a stock market analysist to make it as close to the rl stock market as possible."
"i'm a professional investment banker and from real finance industry point of view you got a couple of problems here.1  there is a problem with valuation of shares. in real world how ipos are conducted, is that companies provide full disclosure of their operations and accounts, so that investors can look into that , run valuation models and determine how much the stock can actually worth. hecen, there will be a problem with disclosing information about alliance, i strongly dobt that major alliances like ra, gf or bob would be willing to give full disclosure of their operations. without appropriate disclosure level what you are gonna end up with, is a lot of \"empty\" companies going public, getting cash from investors, then dissapering  dot com crisis in us .there is also a problem on how to present it - obviously one cannot use a convetional financial format of disclosure for eve. however i see it as a minor concern, i think if corporation/alliance will be willing to work towards that goal then it is possible to design an oppropriate disclosure format and adapt valuation methodologies accordingly. 2 there is a problem in financial mechanics of ipo in eve. it appears to be not a fair deal for issuer. look at it like this - lets make an assumption that calculation whcih was outline in the first post is correct and does reflect a fair value then ra would recieve cash inflow of 30-40b and will gonna have to pay dividends forever. that does not seems to be a fair deal. my wild guess will be that this kinda of valuation methodology outlined in the first post is incorrect. another instrument which can be used as a primer is current rates on depostis in ebank. at any given point in time investor has choice whether to invest into stocks or bonds and hence return should be comparable. if we assume that required investors return is in the range of 2-4%  equity returns should be higher thatn bonds return, due to higher risk , and if we make some reasonable assumptions what the dividens will be  i think that is relatively easy to calculate based on average tax accross coporations in the alliance for example or any other mechanism , then we can calculate the value of the stock. again this is not a very good approximation and ideally speaking some much more complex tools should be used, but this will do as a rough estimate. another problem is on the global macro scale. eve population is not growing too rapidly, hence on average every alliance ability to increase their profit and hence dividends is contrained by eve population growth  not to metion factors like wars for instance . those issues should be balanced out. i.e. not only the dividends should grow over time, but the stock value should also grow over time. 3  i'm not entirelly sure that companies actually need those kind of financial activities. obviously if a company wants to go public, then this company should have a very clear idea, what is it they want to do with that cash. i.e. there should be some sort of business plan, how the company will earn superior returns on that money. right now probably the only good reason to go public will be to raise money to build a couple of titans to protects its territory. and even then, i would imagine most alliance are capable of getting sufficient amount of resources with their own efforts. etc etc etci think it is a very interesting idea, and it will be fantastic if some sort of mechanism can be designed to actually implement ipos. however there are a lot of considerations which need to be addressed before anything can be dome in that direction."
"i'm not sure i'd go with your suggestion as written, but the shares functionality in eve needs some love. this should certainly be considered by the csm."
"definitely bares discussion and advocacy. not sure about the specific details in the op but the principle of a stock market in eve online is excellent."
"this is really annoying to me.i'm all against exploits and stuff, but the following two examples are an indication of suboptimal handling:a  beeing able to evade concord is an exploityeah? why not boost concord instead? not to the point where suicide ganking is impossible but rather by means of \"when you use your warp drive or logoffski you explode. zomg.\"b  the new \"warp to plex\" - exploit - situationwtf? flying through space an exploit? whats next?ccp, this is not acceptable, really!yes, i'm all for the limitation of ship types in fw plexes, there is no question about it. but making a perfectly normal ship operation  \"flying through space\"  an exploit is... pfff... ridiculous. fix the distance  no one would go 1 million km or so  or give complexes a shield or whatever."
"would be even better not to even count them as exploits. if you're good enough to suicide gank and then run from concord, fine. that happens in real life as well, the police does not catch all the criminals. it should be all just good. statistically speaking if i go right now outside to kill someone i will have some 1-5% chance in this area not to get ever caught. in some 3rd world countries it's likely past 30%. hey, that's life. waawaa."
"i would agree but i couldn't stand the carebear whines."
"the gates are closer than normal mission gates, i really don't see the reason behind it if they didn't want intrepid players to slowboat there.i agree, stop nerfing innovation, or at least get your devs and customer support on the same page."
"it's been almost a month, are the minutes available?also, is there a record of what happened in iceland, what was discussed and agreed?"
"10% of voted numbers./signed"
"support basing on % of total voter turnout."
"bingo.not supported at all.all it takes is one alliance mass vote to **** on everyone else.no thank you.**edit**lol filter"
"strongly un-signed, at least for carriers and dreads  titans may need some re-balancing . captials right now are balanced just fine, carriers are far from the solo pwnmobiles most people think they are and require a good support fleet to be anything other than expensive comedy killmails. dreads are a bit lacking in options, but that's the price they pay for being so vitally important in the current sovereignty system.so what's the problem? pos warfare  especially the reinforced timer that produces alarm-clock ops where everyone knows exactly where and when to show up with the biggest ships they can bring  and the lack of objectives for smaller skirmishes where capitals aren't useful. take a look at how fw is working, there's no capital problem because there are relevant objectives for something other than a 200 man capital fleet. bring something like that to 0.0 and the problem is solved."
"meh, i have said it before, but this is a new topic, so i will say it again...let's eliminate capitals so the battleship players will not complain.then let's eliminate battleships so the battlecruiser people will not complain.then onto cruisersand finally, put everyone into frigates. i mean, everyone should be the same right?just like bane glorious in goonfleet says...the divide between veterans and new playersthe stratification between powergamers and more casual playersyeah, lets start everyone off with the same skills to!let's make every ship the exact same as the other! i don't like my gallente tristan, a merlin blew me up, so nerf the merlin!let's eliminate the skill training all together. i mean seriously, if we strive to eliminate the \"divide\" between the veteran and the new players, why do we need to train skills anyway, give everyone the same skills!lets just call this game \"counterstrike in space!\". let's not strive to create a better player, i want everyone to be reduced down to my level! yeah!now i am taking around two points of bane's and exagerating them a bit, as i don't read in his  the ops  post about removing capitals. i don't however like to see the \"divide between veterans and new players\" as a problem. it's funny that line is coming from a goonswarm members as goonswarm grew to a major powerhouse in eve with nothing but new players  a few exceptions of course .nor do i like \"the stratification between powergamers and more casual players. should we talk about wealth distribution as well? how about skillpoints distribution? yeah, lets put a special skill point tax on older players. for every 2 skillpoints they learn they have to give 1 to a new player!you see here's the problem.when i was flying a frigate and got killed by another frigate, and saw that one frigate was cleary better then the frigate i was flying, and it was a different race. do you know what i did? i went to the forums and whined about it!!! no, i trained for that new frigate. \"what???? you say? you can train for other ships, even if they do not belong to your race!! omg!\" yeah, crazy isn't it. yes, eve is not constrained.then later i was flying a cruiser and got blown up by a battleship. oooh, battleships are cool. so i went to the forums again to whine about them  damn i am a whiner!  actually i trained for a battleship. \"what???!!!\" you say. \"you can train for even bigger and better ships!!!\". yeah, again, crazy isn't it?later i saw a carrier jump into low sec  a thanatos owned by shrinra to be exact . wow was it cool and i knew instantly i wanted to fly a ship like it. but sadly eve had put this restriction on my character which wouldn't allow me to train for it. so i went to the forums and whined some more! actually i put together a skill plan, trained up and low and behold guess what, i flew a carrier. i know i know, your amazed. i'll pass on quoting you with the \"omg what!!?\" speak on this point.you see what happened there? i saw an escalation path into bigger and better ships that gave me a goal, and enjoyment in the game. so rather then go to the forums and try to get the overall game reduced down to my level, i trained up to get into the ships i wanted. guess what? i fly dreads to. omg!but yeah, nerf the ships because they are bigger then what you currently fly. let's reduce the game down to the least common denominator. make everyone the same. let the game get boring quick because theres no goals, and the oldest player in game is 6 months old because blowing up and flying the exact same ship as everyone else gets boring pretty quickly, with nothing to strive for.this post is not against bane glourious from goonfleet, but more directed to other responses i see in this forum. just think about what path you are going down by nerfing ships so that your own ship is more powerful."
"i see a whole bunch of solutions looking for problems here.someone show the ship ownership and loss metrics, and then at least we can see how close we are to cap ships online.seriously, we aren't.claiming that we will be at any point is speculation.even if people stayed around long enough to train for a capital, and decided the total investment was worthwhile, they would soon discover quite how over-rated capital ships are.show us the numbers, then we can see if there is an issue."
"/signage, thumbage, whatever...."
"i support transferable kill rights, how i must stress that good reasearch and testing will be need for the mechanics to avoid exploits~/signed"
"why do i have to wait for it? i dont give a damn if someone uses sels slots.and it prevents me alright from having fun i payed for!"
"y not just implement u keep what u kill.someone takes loot from a kill that wasn't their kill then they get flashy.then i could kill something and wait for the vultures to land and kill them 2= loot stealing becomes risky cause the pod isn't the only thing that can shoot u"
"a kills b, a goes blinky to b, a & b get loot rights to b's wreck, c loots, c goes blinky to a & b.the parties involved in the fight should have first loot rights to the wrecks produced form said fighitng, any 3rd party wanting in, is far game to be shot at by the original parties. if you are on the kill mail you get loot rights to the wreck, you also get blinky to the owner of the original ship.this ownership could have a timer on it; say 30 mins, after said time, it is free for all.edit: clarity"
"i have to agree with jvol on this one, if nothing else for consistency.if i go in  on a mission  and blow up a gurista battleship, the loot is flagged as mine. the salvage isn't - although that's a different argument - but the module loot is.now, i'm in a war. i blow up a war target and the loot is not flagged as mine. huh? how does that work?if you destroy the vessel, the loot should be flagged as 'yours' if you can pick it up. that's required for consistency. nothing wrong with flagging at belonging to the original owner too - but it should be flagged as yours and some yutz stealing it should go all flashy flashy to you.of course, i think they should go all flashy flashy for a day or so because 15 minutes is a joke, but that's just me  and, again, another topic ."
"whine"
"just started skilling missiles, ~2m sp now i like the fact that missiles are different from gunnery, why must everything be made more equal? you complain that you need t2 large turrets to snipe in fleet? well caldari cant even use their weps in fleet //xo"
"really. thousands of people are going to give a thumbs up to anything? i seriously doubt there is any topic at all that can get the over 5,000  25% of the people who voted in the last csm election  thumbs up on the forum.windjammer"
"edit: never mind"
"remember it's not 25% of the voters to force csm to discuss the issue, it's 25% of the voters to force the csm to take the issue directly to ccp without a csm vote.that was the purpose of the 5% rule in the first place, it allowed an avenue for our voices to be heard if the csm was completely out of touch with public opinion.basically an issue could be taken up by the csm, they would vote against taking it to ccp, the public could then amass enough popular support to push the issue onto the agenda for the ccp meetings regardless of the csm's wishes.an example would be the large exploration vessel thread. csm voted against bringing it to ccp, however if enough people demanded it be brought to ccp by supporting the issue on the thread then csm/ccp would have no choice but to discuss it."
"no, you are mistaken.it's 25% of all voters to raise an issue to csm, not ccp.if an issue do gain 25% of total voters' support, we will have to discuss it at our first-coming meeting.i think 25% is a bit steep. i suggested 10%. but do remember that certain alliances can make 25%. goonswarm has 5000 members. if we assume they make all their accounts vote, that would make 25% i believe."
"have just re-read the csm document, not sure where i got the idea that the 5% rule was designed to do what i thought it did. possibly in one of the earlier dev blog's.apologies for any confusion caused by this misinterpretation of the csm process."
"meeting is at 4am my time - so i won't be there. since the meetings all seem to happen around this time i would suggest finding a new alternate to replace me as i will never be able to attend.thanks,oz"
"very sorry about this omber, we have talked about the situation of timing for the meetings but its very difficult to think of a timing that works for both us and euro csms that also allows the australian tz to participate. i think its possible we could do something earlier on a sunday sometimes perhaps but we're caught on the issue of making our american reps get up much earlier at the weekend to make it fit for alternate participation and as i'm sure you can appreciate thats a little unfair.we'll bring the issue of alternate participation up again this sunday and see what people think.all the best."
"jade, the op has only been updated with 4 issues. does this mean only 4 where submitted with the template? or have they all just not been processed yet?"
"why don't you rotate timeslots for eu/us/aussie? have two us/eu, two us/aus two au/eu in whichever time slots that overlap best. it's dictatorship by the majority if you exclude elected reps to ever attend meeting and seems relly detrimental to the democratic aspect of csm.//xo"
"xofi - i'm only an alternate, the timing is only an issue if i have to attend the meeting. currently the meeting times suit the people who are on the council, so it's not an issue."
"these were the only issues with templated submission before the 18:00 hours deadline tonight. i guess we'll have a pretty short meeting for a change.  haven't had any submitted since the deadline either .i'll take a look tomorrow and add the top2 supported unaddressed issues from the assembly hall as well."
"how long until the next csm vote? i definately miss not having my vote."
"thanks for that semkhet. sometimes its posts like these that make me glad i'm playing eve online with some personalities and real people behind the avatars. respect for your experience and actions there."
"you can find the csm meeting minutes for meetings #1 and #2 under eve insider/csm/meeting minutes to the left of this post in the navigation bar/buttons. these are the only ones i've found posted by ccp.you can find the minutes from csm meetings #1 through #3 at the site serenity is/was maintaining at"
"csm 4 & 5 are on jades site in raw form."
"lmao! you couldn't pay for better stuff than that minutes log."
"stfu"
"itt bob posting continues to rise to unprecedented levels."
"inanna zuni and goonswtf? elucidate, please ...iz"
"i've always been amazed at the whole gtc thing anyway. i haven't seen one other game that has this mechanism and it seems a troubled one."
"xbox live has both subscription and \"time card\" like payment options, it's really not so far fetched. and yes, without time codes there would be no way to exchange $$ for isk."
"i definitely support. i saw my first pos a couple weeks ago, i thought i was looking at some type of debris field until i actually clicked on the big thing in the middle and it said caldari control tower.however, i also think it might be best to implement this as a supplement to the current system rather than forcing such a major change all of a sudden. for example ccp might stop seeding the blueprints for the old style and introduce the new style with distinct benefits to promote a voluntary and gradual change, or as has already been suggested here and in the original thread make this design of pos cheaper with defensive drawbacks and leave them both in existence.i have been in other mmos when they made sudden massive changes to major game systems and it never goes well an especially bad case was star wars galaxies shortly before the releases of their first two expansions ."
"100% agree. i saw this a while back and thought it was the greatest thing ever."
"rgr"
"i would fully support most of whats being said around here, i think if the tower management screen were made longer that had a cube grid in green that rotates or assigniable bands ie equator..tropics..and poles and the idea of towers being equipped with construction drones ,and haveing it interface with your anchoring skill rank affecting construction total time ..so u could concentrate on defending and or fueling would be a fair boon to every alliance the fuel bays are now large enough its no longer a issue. seer"
"i hate the  many  parts of eve when it reminds me of rl hard work instead of having fun! but if you insist to keep the boring gameplay, at least let us employ 3rd world children to do this for us for 5c an hour!"
"i've lost too many hours to pos management."
"lol pos only ***gots do that ****."
"100% support from me"
"hmm, i can currently stick any part of my ui over the brightest nebula and find that it doesnt affect me.do you fail? yes i think so."
"he could also be colorblind"
"fully support this!"
"i have the same problem as the op. i have to keep swinging the camera view to see which modules are working, etc.if ekrid would care to share his settings with us, perhaps this wouldn't be necessary.windjammer"
"as a gremlin would put it \"bright light, bright light\" *explodes*"
"the most important graphic element are the nebulas after gui interface size issues, and none of them has been fixed/upgraded yet.with trinity we've got nice update when the camera zoomed in, but i wonder how many of us plays with half of the screen filled with our ship...so yes, please update the nebulas and let us enlarge the gui size. try to activate your overload on 1900x1200 res! it's about 3 millimeter, smaller than the cursor ffs!"
"oh please yes, having to find a dark spot in space to see of modules are on is not fun :-/"
"signed"
"or even just a dark background behind the modules so we can see what's running."
"fantastic idea, background colours are pretty, but need to be adjustable."
"/signed!!"
"i also have a problem with this. some backgrounds are good and dont conflict with my ui. but alot of the red backgrounds common in venal make me cry : "
"signed"
"/signed"
"totally, and if they do that, they might as well make new ones, that actually look nice"
"agreed, i hate having to guess on which modules are because the back-ground is masking it..."
"i'm with the \"drop the whole thing\" crowd, but if i cant turn it off, at least let me turn it down"
"preferably have an option to turn the background nebulae off, but if not, then at least reducing the brightness would be a big help."
"absolutely, i made a thread about this a long while back as well and back then it was still popular.this is never going to be a huge issue but it's a persistent one which should be addressed i think. the first time the new bgs were in i thought ooo pretty...but y'know they got real old real quick. space just doesn't seem so lonely when everywhere you look is cluttered by pretty sparkly lights all the time.watching sci-fi's like firefly when they're in space you really feel they're alone and that's because the only thing illuminating the ship is the sun and some lights on the ship.the awesome trippy lsd induced backgrounds are cool but they get old quick. i mean seeing a rainbow every single day would just make it seem dull rather than refreshing."
"i support this, i want alien  the movie  space not cotton candy space."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"agree!!and a next step would be to do the different colors/backgrounds per region."
"i don't really support this. although i think that maybe they should consider changing log off rules for a ship based on whether it recently had a cloak up. we can't nerf logoffski for legitimate reasons of fairness to those who suffer network issues. we can't nerf cloaks, because they really are working pretty fairly atm.combining logoffski with cloakski and it starts to get annoying though. the solution i found was to use a helios. run right up to him, flag him pvp, and run like hell while you wait for backup to arrive. if you're lucky, he logs off and dies easily. unlucky and he'll warp safe, warp safe, cloak. does cost him time though, which is the point i guess."
"i only beg for 2 features:1. a reasonable search capability2. a \"view new replies to my posts\" linkany reasonably skilled web developer could add these features to any properly coded forum in a matter of hours using open source tools, we really aren't asking for much."
"absolutely."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"totally disagree, the whole point is for new people to learn about pvp in eve and then when they have some experience they can go join alliances in 0.0. letting alliances in fw will totally ruin it and it will end up just like 0.0 with caps and all that c**p. some people  including me  joined fw to go away from the whole alliance thing and all that crap you always see in caod that going on there.alliances already have their playgrounds why you need to play in fw also? go conquer some 0.0 space, why you want to conquer low sec space???....ccp keep alliances out of fw dont ruin something good you made."
"they added some fixes in ea, ye doubters should try it again."
"which would be valid, if it were true."
"except that the op has nailed one of the exact reasons that it is currently inferior."
"the op has stated one of the disadvantages it has over vent and ts. this does not necessary signify a general inferiority, which i think is a matter of opinion.for example, in fw today we had a 23 man fleet, all of them using eve voice. they joined and started listening. 0 time was spent distributing passwords and server addresses, we didn't have to ask anyone to get access to a channel, no one had to install anything, and anyone who wanted to speak could do so clearly and without technical problems.for that specific operation, eve voice was a clear winner over vent/ts."
"as long as ccp's client  and ccp  remains in the loop as a possible specific point of failure, it will remain to be inferior to vent or ts. /me points to ccp's billing system/me points to ongoing lag every weekend/me points to these forums/me points to ccp's demonstrated lack of qa/qc capability capability and the list goes on.."
"and yet, if it was inferior, why did we use it?"
"because you are drunk on ccp's kool-aid?  guessing  you used it because it was convenient and free, and because as long as you don't lag out it probably works o.k. convenient and free does not make it on par with ts or vent. if ccp made this external to the game client, and allowed a 3rd party to operate it who has proficiency doing so, i would 100% reconsider my position. when a fleet lags-out and 1/2 of the fleet has to log, it's an obvious advantage to be able to tell them via voice where to be when  or if  they can log back on."
"so you would say that in that particular instance, eve voice was the best tool for the job, even if it is not the best tool for all or even most instances?"
"actually i think eve voice worked quite well for that fleet. i suspect that if ccp were to provide a external voice client that the use of ts and vent for eve would disappear entirely."
"not having been a part of your fleet i cannot say one way or another, but i would digress to say that if you claim it worked flawlessly for you in this specific situation with a small fleet then kudos for the convenience.until it's external and we don't have to reconnect the game client to make comms work again, e-voice is not even close to being on par with vent or ts."
"i suspect you would be right if it was also in fact as reliable as vent or ts are now. the biggest hurdle here is that e-voice has to support thousands of users  or more  simultaneously whereas a private ts or vent server only has to deal with a minute fraction of those users making the potential for failure that much less."
"fair enough. i think that for 0.0 vent/ts will remain popular for quite some time, due to both being well-established and the fact that in larger battles client crashes are more common and ts/vent is unaffected by them.but to dismiss it entirely is flawed, because there are plenty of instances where it's superior to ts or vent."
"i only do so based on ccp's established long-term inability to make their existing game features scale very well, and the fact that they regularly tackle a problem to only 90% completion. i am fully prepared to be impressed however, should they start demonstrating otherwise."
"i'm not so sure tying moon mineral extraction to player time would be such a great idea, we already have plenty of boring, repetitive tasks in order to earn isk.but then again, heck, why not ? everything else that earns consistent isk carries a small degree of risk and can be very boring too.you could have the moon mining arrays placed outside of the pos shield, and they would need to be manually operated for extra yield.they could even make use of some less used skills, like deep core mining, for instance.you could have them continuously extracting moon minerals at 100 per hour into the silos like they do now in \"automatic\" mode.when when controlled by a player, they would extract directly into the player ship's cargohold, and they would extract at 200 per hour base speed, and when controlled by a max-skilled player they could extract up to 400 per hour  20% extra per level of deep core mining .the risk comes in the form of having the player ship  and all extracted materials  outside of the shield bubble, so you would either have to be actually there or risk destruction and materials getting stolen. also, attackers could more easily disrupt your mining operations by simply disabling the miners  much easier than forcing the tower into reinforced , so you'd need constant guarding anyway.yeah, it could work."
"its not a whine or tears, you just don't get it, i wont stop suicide ganking because of the insurance or the sec hit.ok now listen carefully, suicide ganking is a good way of making isk because people are stupid and greedy as i've pointed out numerous times in this thread.also its not my profession it's just another way of making isk.the next question is, what happens when the sec hit and the insurance voiding fails to stop it and people still come to the forums to complain?"
"i can only speak for myself here and i am sure there are more than enough wow-in-space players who would prefer all their activities being instanced who will disagree, but after a complete insurance nerf for suicide ganking, anyone who is still ganked either really had it coming anyway, or required some real effort on the part of the gankers, and thus those ganks will be balanced.if you are really not going to stop suicide ganking because of an insurance nerf, more power to you, you are not my 'target audience' then in the first place. also makes me wonder why you even argue here then, in fact an insurance nerf could be advantageous to you, if all the amateur-suiciders go for greener pastures there will be more potential victims left for the pros, and they might end up being less wary after a nerf too."
"fair comment, tbh my real issue is that it's easy to counter that more than anything is really what's annoying, but i do think it will make the ganking drop off which as you say is to my advantage.the only real way to stop it is imposing a massive sec hit, that' s the only thing that would deter me, which possibly might happen, because lets face it, there's more mission runners than gankers and that means more subs per month for ccp from them so it's in their interest to look after them, not that i'd quit the game, suicide ganking is one of the things i do but it's not everything for me in the game."
"this pretty much reiterates exactly what my point was. the point  my point  was to never eliminate suicide ganking, as i have stated in numerous posts in this thread i am for ganking. i am just not for the full insurance payouts that go along with them.exactly correct."
"agree that missions need, and can be, more fun."
"yes.but that only matters when the agent/missions are a finite resource - when it is, as it is now, in unlimited supply, then everyone moves to motsu, because that's where the highest ql agent is.i'd like to see dynamic quality level adjustment across _all_ sec levels. because that's the only way to have the 'system' load distribute automatically - more desirable will diminish in quality until they stop being as desirable, and the population starts to spread out.ideally this will also include lowsec and backwater agents, such that the time/effort/reward in lowsec mission running will reach a point of being a viable tradeoff for time and additional risk of dodging pirates."
"it would be fair to say, would it not, that every space station in the game would have a head of security, head of personnel, head of transport, it stands to reason that these guys might be junior or senior depending on where it is, but you could assume that lower security systems, or in hubs, would have better people in the role. i wonder if this was the original idea behind agent qualities....anyway. serenitys differetiation comes from mining corps having mining heads, industry corps having industry heads, etc.so the problem, as anyone who has run missions has found, is either move to low-sec, no-sec. which is an option for some, for good rewards and probably a quiet system  you hope! , but not possible for all, or settle for a huge lag fest in motsu or alentene, etc, or move to a slightly lesser quality agent in a quiet system and actually be slightly penalised for having done your homeworkthe differentiator in all of these is the quality of the agent, no-one willingly goes and works for a negative quality agent unless you are working towards a better one. this system does not work, some of these agents possibly have hardly anyone working for them, which is surely a waste of processing resources somewhere in that big ol' eve mainframei notice that when i check my agent, she has an effective quality far higher that her stated quality, so some form of dynamic is already in place but i dont really see it has a lot of impacta few questions got asked ...err, hello, thats exactly what they are, we wish for something better and more dynamic but for those of us who do a lot of missions they are that grind towards and end  isk, standing, lp, whatever  - changing the quality of the agents wont make them more tedious this should not be the case, there already is a system of mining and security, etc agents offering different types of missions in different corps, these should definately remain and possibly become more stratified.that wont work because you'll just move the clumps, they might be smaller but probably only for a while.and finally, if you removed the quality, lowsec gets another gimp because who the hell will go to lowsec and mission if you can do it better and faster in highsec with a lot less risk.so the problem isnt removing quality, it's measuring the reward and giving it out appropriately based on your personal risk in doing that mission, this is classic eve, risk goes up with reward.so, a long way around the discussion comes back not to quality, but to reward. if you set all the agents to the same quality, you have to do something about the rewards, so actually you probably dont want to remove the quality, since this is probably a lot of work for ccp to reprogramme, what you need is more equality in the high sec agents quality, lets face it, they;ve all been doing the job for years not, and they ought to get better or be fired.thus you get all lvl4 high sec agents are, ooh lets say q15, you get a nice spread out of people as they move to find different agents  though i suspect you will indeed need to add more agents over time  however, your lowsec agents move to all being, oh lets say q17, and your no-sec agents get a q20it doesnt have to be done just like this but the answer everyone is searching for is equal reward for doing the same thing but not having to suffer lag because of it. so maybe just more equality in the quality is the answer for highsec"
"i agree with the idea of removing agent quality. agent quality is a cause of cluttered systems and lag and has to go."
"i'll try answering this question: yes.aside from lag the biggest thing i hear my fellow mission runners complain about is the tedium of moving a base on the rare occasion you move. i believe it may be possible  while causing great whining  to use the storyline mission system to capitalize on this.currently every 16 missions or so we get a storyline mission from a special storyline agent that is very nearby  seldom more than 2 jumps if operating from a hub . typically we run the missions for the agent by visiting their home station for accepting missions and drop off objectives etc. but operating out of our own home station in terms of ammo supply, changing modules, the salvage ship ...i propose the system be changed to force a major move every couple storyline missions. for this both the agents and missions would have to change as followsthe agent:1. the agent should be a normal agent, not a special storyline agent.2. the agent should be the same level as missions that led to the storyline.3. the agent should be within 3 quality points of the average quality of the agents the player has been working for.4. the agent should be in the same or similar division as the agents the player has been working for.6. the player should meet normal standing requirements for the agent.7. the agent should be far enough from the players main agent to be inconvenient. no less than 4 jumps 8. the agent should be in space with a similar sec rating  +/- 1 .9. the agent should be in a system that is less busy than the players primary agent.the mission:1. must be long and multi parted.  preferably 10+ parts 2. must have parts that are worth 10 jumps to salvage 5 each way to get the salvage ship 3. should engage multiple rat factions in the series.  different damage and resists 4. should include several mission types.  throw in a mining or large courier, force them to bring their other ships 5. should have at least one deadspace complex that restricts ship sizes to too small.  frigate for lvl2, cruiser for lvl3, ... 6. should pay extremely well and have exceptional loot for its level.  hopefully reduce the whining a little 7. should have a more significant standing impact than standard storyline missions.this type of storyline should not replace the current storyline missions entirely but rather happen every other storyline at the most frequent and the frequency of these relocation storyline missions should be a function of how crowded their current system is.the logic behind this system is to try and force the mission runner to move most of his possessions  or at least ships  to a less busy system where there is less lag and an agent comparable to the one he has been using. hopefully, the slight difference in agent quality will be less of an inconvenience to him than moving all his stuff back and, as a result, he will simply start using the new agent.in addition, the requirement that the new agent be in a less busy system means that if you are already operating out of a low traffic system, you should almost never have this happen to you. an obvious problem is identifying your home system, for this i would recommend just looking at the home systems of the agents that gave you the 16 or whatever missions that contributed to you getting the storyline and choosing the mode  the one that appears most often . the algorithm is not perfect and i'm sure if this got implemented ccp would come up with something better.another big problem with this is that it would require a lot of work by the designers and probably programmers.finally, the issue that kills this solution is that it will receive virtually no support from the mission running community, except for those of us that avoid the hubs anyway and wouldn't be affected.so, all that to avoid modifying the agent quality system."
"good idea! i likes!"
"is enounght 2 remove already. ccp time for jade to be fired! caldar military 4evah!!!!!!"
"aye, reason: misuse of given power and childish behavior"
"i don't have to support this. just look at this thread. he is so gone next round."
"i agree completely with the above. i am working on a proposal that would allow player run insurance as well as quite a few other things including some  hopefully  effective isk sinks. look for my post on information war within the week."
"just read the notes for the meeting where this got rejected.nighthawk so obviously needs a boost. utterly no sound arguments as to why no support for it. some bloke argued that since lots of ppl use it then it cant be that bad and some other guy said issue too small for the oh so glorious csm. they have to be the most plainly stupid arguments ever. just dumb ass arguments made worse by the fact that the weak ac argument got through.if the csm exists to put forward grand sweeping game changes then this game might just go to the dogs if these guys get any power.this csm stuff is an utterly ridiculous farce and judging by the fact that u lot cannot even organise a vote without dreadful bickering all over the forums i am given to conclude that you probably couldnt organise a ****-up in a brewery let alone making reasoned decisions based on a sound knowledge of game balance.i just hope ccp doesnt listen to any of you."
"changing the eve music player to winamp seems like the minimum acceptable solution. making game-state changes to the playlist would be really nifty, but unlikely to be feasible."
"being able to play your own music through eve would be excellent"
"links:covert ops agentsexploration sites revampedconcept art: soe explorer ship:science battlecruiser concept.npc corporations for new ships & shipclassesfor mobile infrastructure, but against an all-in-one exploration ship?edits: more links"
"this is tailor-made for a setting in the escape options."
"ccp could satisfy 99% of its customer base with 2 boolean variables and they could be selectable from the esc menu instead of truly regionalized.  values: coma or period, variables: currency, generic the benefit would be the same as time messages handling the number one correctly instead of seeing \"this operation should be completed in 1 seconds\".the bigger issue though is getting it consistent. i have noticed both systems being used  on the same screen one time but i can't remember where  and all to often no separators at all  on the overview for example .i support this as a very minor issue."
"ub"
"i agree with all the points of the op and this as well."
"i think eve needs more metagaming in general. i leave it up to jade constantine to come up with new ideas to add more metagaming to eve."
"i do not know what these means, but more of anything cant hurt."
"do you mean metagaming in the actual meaning of the word i.e., making decisions based on the overall structure of how people are playing the game, e.g., anti-nano fits , or in the stupid-people meaning of the word as a euphamism for cheating? the former is hard to design, the latter is childish."
"i like thati actualy very supprised those dont existthe whole faction warfare expansion was based around a central thought \"make the jump from carebear to 0.0 pilot easyer for new players\"firstly i'm talking for myself herei would find the transfer to 0.0 gaming much easyer if i could maybe do a few missions in peace and then jump to help my corp on some fleet op for a few days. jump back to missions when i need money and so on and so onbeing a new player in a new corp i had a lot of trouble transfering to 0.0. i had no way of making any money there if older players weren't around to help with ratting... so i postponed my switch to 0.0 until the time i can afford to lose a bs and not care... things changed for me a bit since that time but that's not importantanywayz i support this because i know that in the situation i was in this was the turning ponit that made me decide not to go to 0.0so if moving more people to 0.0 is realy ccp-s goal this is a nice step twoards it"
"i wholly support alliance logos and maybe corp logos, but you should be able to turn them off. eve has memory hogging issues already and when i am running around busy parts of high sec with hundreds of people in different alliances coming in and out of my grid, i don't want hundreds of alliance logos getting added to an already over inflated memory footprint and staying there till i shut the client off.  i have found i usually get more lag from memory thrashing than cpu overload with eve and it often seems to be more significant than network issues when running on my laptop with only 512mb in regards to the paint job, no. see what pactu'sa said about the art a couple posts ago, i doubt i can say it better."
"im not sure, but i think i proposed the exact same thing about 4 years ago or so. i dont know what ccp thinks about it, but the idea of making our ships more individual is great! with more ram and newer/faster processors, i would think this would be a lot easier to do than in the old days when eve first went live."
"interesting idea. maybe noah would consider this to be less of a \"niggling ui thing\" and more of a \"sweeping view of the future\". windjammer"
"won't happen unless the player can control their own depature, for much the same reason we can't scoop people's pods."
"like it.it should not grant safe passage to war targets or kos in empire people  the whole bus should be attackable .but it would be neat to allow players to ferry the pods of others around. i could see it making money.there's even potential for a whole line of ships. t1 bus, t2 rockstar bus along the lines of the transports' bonuses."
"consider what was possible with alliances and corps before factional warfare.players could not be part of multiple corporations.corporations could not be part of multiple alliances.allied alliances are allied through the standings system.as fw works right now, it obeys all of these systems. they did not need to change at all. if you want to participate you simply have to be a member of an npc militia corp that is allied with the faction's fw alliance. player corps just also leave their player alliance and join the factions fw alliance. end result, all fw players for that faction, are under the same alliance, a single alliance.basically, theres no code to support alliances being part of fw, no code to support a corp being both in fw and a player alliance, and no code to support a player being a member of both a fw militia cor and a player corp.the reasons ccp listed for not allowing alliances to be a part of fw are bs. they gave no good reasons. the real reasons are quite simple, their current systems simply dont support it."
"ahh, conspiracy theories. no, ccp mentioned the technical issues in the one dev blog, but basically said it wasn't an issue - it'd be a minimal amount of coding to let alliances play in fw. i agree, it was a dumb decision, but it wasn't made for this banal a reason."
"simply untrue."
"seeing as there is nothing in game that would suggest that i'm wrong, and that you've offered up nothing..prove it, jade constantfail."
"read devblogs/devposts around the launch of ea. its stated somewhere there by a dev but i cant be arsed to find it."
"i've read it.sometimes companies prepare statements to rationalize away a shortcoming.in the end it cannot be nailed as a slam-dunk lie, as the prepared statements will always be a matter of opinion, but they generally are made up as a calculated decision in order to hide any reason that might be viewed as a weakness by the public.anyone who's ever been in-the-know behind some kind of project has likely seen this before. happens a lot."
"if you are knowledgeable on a topic and see a conspiracy theory thread about it do not post. nothing you say will enlighten these people, they have chosen their belief and will deny the validity of any evidence that is feasible to give. they may say to demonstrate  in this case implement  to prove them wrong but only after they are certain it won't happen for other reasons.so in short, replying to the thread just bumped it to the top and kept it on the first page of the forum where it can more effectively spread its disinformation. so don't do it. i know i am breaking my own advice but i am minimizing the effect by doing it while the post was already first, and i know that counter trolling is a poor response to trolling but i just had to. "
"it is of course a theory, no need to get jaded about it. i'm willing to consider something presented. simply untrue, go read the devblog, and don't reply to this aren't very much of a argument. obviously i am not convinced by ccp's joke for reasoning."
"just a minor issue to add to the mix...i would like to see the camera angle able to be locked in relation to the ship... instead of the way it is now locked in relation to... i guess the pod in the ship, without regard for the ship around the pod... i get tired of arriving in a system  from a gate or station  start to warp to the next gate or location, then have to rotate the camera angle to let me \"see where i am going\", i would like to lock my camera so that i am always looking from the same angle in relation to what ever ship i am flying at the time."
"so you want a driving mode camera in eve?anyone flying with such a camera mode would cripple their situational awareness. it would be a bad idea and thus no one would use it making it a waste of developer time.i vote no."
"i'm in favor of any kind of improvement to the camera system."
"because it'd be way too big for sanity. eve general is bad enough on the forums, it doesn't need a real time presence."
"well there is the constellation chat channel. i don't know if many people use it, but it's there. there are also a large number of other channels available to anyone who wishes to shoot the breeze.i think a channel that enabled all of eve to talk to each other at once might be logistically challenging. can you imagine a few thousand people chatting on the same channel? who could follow that? remember, there are 20 to 30+ thousand people on eve at any given time. if even a fraction of them try to chat on a single universal channel, the result would be chaotic and for all practical purposes unusable.windjammer"
"have you ever been on the help channel?in all seriousness, this feature already sort of exists. there are a couple dozen public channels you can get by just opening the channels window and clicking join. of those, the help channel is moderated and the trade channels are ad spammed but the rest are basically whatever. the eve radio channels seem to try to be exactly what you describe and there is no stated purpose or restrictions for the racial channels  as a caldari i find the gallente discussions quite entertaining sometimes . i think there is also supposed to be some way to add your own channel to that list, but i don't don't how if you can. if you can figure it out you might want to add a general chat one, but then you only get the people that are in your same situation, which might not be that bad.hope that helps."
"lachesis, arazu , celestis mainly. keres for concideration.issues with damps themselves:exceedingly low range of optimal, and low falloff seems to be a major problem with the module itself. i gather the use of said module is in keeping with the gallente ideal that blasters and close range is the mainstay of gallente ships, however without a rework of the range of dampeners to influance sniping designed ships makes 1/2 of the dampener nearly useless in situations i'd expect it be designed for. not an attack on ecm however, i always thought dampener and ecm ranges got accidentally switched at birth. complete jamming as opposed to range reduction should have ranges switched, if not, atleast dampeners should have a realativly improved range in order to do the job if the module values themselve can not be changed for balance reasons, my suggestion is the following. give damp dedicated ships an additional bonus to the strength of sensor dampenrs, 5% more recommended  and a role bonus to the optimal range of dampeners  80-100% optimal range this would put your dedicated damp ship for range reduction with fair skills at around 80k optimal 40k falloff, which would put them inline with a dampeners purpose. harassment of long range attackers.counters to these ships with bonuses described are obvious, shorter range attacks.dampeners should be, in my opinion, the formost ewar against ranged attackers. yet much less effective vs mid to close range attackers. i hope csm will take this into concideration, as i belive this idea, and ideas like this are very compelling uses for csm's time and recourses.thank you, flawliss"
"so that's why we don't see any more arazu-s in large fleet engagements! well maybe except suicide minded ones."
"okay, so i was randomly musing today on what i would do if ccp fix certain issues that have been preventing me from getting much enjoyment out of the game these days, and i decided one of the first things i would do would be to get a second account so i could have an alt. thinking about this, i realized i'd have to train a stupid number of skills and have to make sure i didn't miss anything in the process. moreover, i realized this would be a major pain in the ass - and that's as an experienced player. i can hardly imagine what it would be like for a new player these days trying to figure out what skills they need.then i came up with an idea: skillbook packages.simply put, these skillbook packages would be bundles of related skillbooks that could be purchased all at once instead of having to go through the market to find each one individually. here are some examples of what i have in mind:engineering support  all fitting and capacitor related engineering skills shield  all shield skills aside from shield transfer and capital modules navigation  afterburners, microwarpdrives, acceleration control, fuel conservation, etc. gunnery support  all gunnery skills not specific to a specific turret type and not including awu or any capital-related skills missile support  same as gunnery, but for missiles etc...thoughts?"
"if it was easier to advertise contracts, i'd tell you to just put up a contract to that effect. since it's not, you can just buy them individually - they're all on market in the same stations, you can see what all of them are in your skill sheet, and there aren't all that many that non-tripoli players will need. an idea, but i don't think it's needed."
"this is a kind of neat idea, but personally i like the situation the way it is. i found it to be fun figuring out what i needed and in the course of looking for the things i needed i found things i didn't need right away, but could use in the future. if i'd just purchased a package, as you suggest, i would not have familiarized myself with as much as i did while looking around.there are plenty of lists which show you which basic skills you need to cover core abilities. shopping for the individual skills is an exploration which the newcomer should find enjoyable and indirectly informative.additionally, each player chooses a different path and no one package will suit all. also, the price of a complete package may be beyond the ability of someone new to the game.windjammer"
"i rememberd this today and actualy timed myselfi had the loot and salvage from 2 lvl 4 missionsit was a total of 152 diferent itemsit took me 16 minutes to sell itand it took me with some friends less than 40 minutes to do these 2 missionsso the joke i posted in the first post wasnt exagurated... i actualy spend an amount of time selling items that is very comparable to mission times"
"sell less often, the stacks will start to add up. i make a jita run every couple months with mission loot, it doesn't tend to take more than an hour, and i'm actually checking markets when blind selling looks unprofitable."
"ccp please just unite war target and militia into one checkbox, like so, when you have a a war target and militia only overview, and it happens you don't have standings set to a newly joined corp in the ennemy faction, they will still appear on overview."
"learning skills are vital. they must stay. career explanations with optimized tree paths  by faction  need to be made available in the faq's somewhere. note that these optimized skills paths are not likely to include \"learning\" skills. for example, the optimization for a caldari pilot mission runner. provide a list of prioritized skills for mission running, ship, weapons, tank, etc. but design it so someone following that career path will have nothing but that skill set. this kind of \"path\" would be very helpful for a newcomer, and some of us vets might find useful information for career paths we have not yet picked up. - the point of course would be to lower the learning curve."
"i seem to recall that at one time they were demanding that the euro reps just \"stay up a little later\"  i.e. to 2 or 3 in the morning  so they could attend the infamous pre-iceland thursday meeting. surely it would be no great hardship for them to set their alarms and \"get up a little earlier\"? more seriously... in my corp we have some australian folks who i regularly see as i am coming home from work of an evening and they are just getting up - now, they are extraordinarily early risers  like 3 am their time , but adjusting that to a more human time ... i'm not sure exactly where in oz they are, or how time zones work down there, but the guys i know are at something like gmt +10. therefore a weekend meeting at 10 pm uk time/11 pm europe time/7 am australian time/5 pm eastern usa time/2 pm western usa time may be the only time to accommodate all. if there are reps on central or eastern european time this might become a little grim though - likewise if the meeting goes beyond a coupleof hours or the difference to oz is less than gmt + 10. i can't remember zones for everyone in the csm & on the alt list unfortunately."
"minmatar capitals are terrible"
"whats the correct supported template?i've been unable to find any template nor can i recognize anything consistent between the 4 accepted issues linked in the op."
"it's an internal csm thing. a csm delegate wanting to sponsor a specific subject needs to put the details onto this form to standardise layout and therefore facilitate comprehension for the other delegtes."
"oh.it appears not all of the csm delegates are aware of this."
"so what, you just mute the people you don't believe are real people behind the keyboard?and you've yet to admit you made a stupid mistake. good luck next round pubby."
"an apology would seem to be in order. this post does not even meet the standards of goonswarm. windjammer"
"not that i would normally comment.... but.... is bob turning into the new goonswarm?"
"maybe he just dislikes you both equally and decided to consolidate his posts."
"so bobs contribution to the csm is, as follows:'stfu'that's really helpful"
"lol"
"lol we control ur game now tbqh"
"xbox live has a way for people to purchase in game assets for real life money? they have a way to use in game assets to purchase game time?windjammer"
"gtc for isk may as well be 'gold for cash'.its a nice idea, be successful in eve play for free, but people exploit it like everything else in life.scrap gtc for cash, make people work for their isk"
"actually, it doesn't go both ways. i'm not obligated to interact with members of the eve community in real life  nor would i want to . so, i can be as difficult and obnoxious as i please.i know you were probably quite pleased with your lame attempt at turning an argument around against someone, much like the vast majority of lame internet personalities. unfortunately, it resulted in great failure in this instance. i am not a csm rep. i am not required to act accordingly."
"so after reading through this thread it can be summed up to.... goons> whaaaaaa!!!!!! our rep no csm waaaaaaaaaaahhhhhh!!!!!eve general pop>> well ye...goons> whhhhhhhhaaaaaaaaa no play fair whaaaaaaaaaaeve general pop> but......goons> whaaaaaaaaaaa gona break it wwhaaaaaaaaaand just to be one of the cool kids i am going to put a c/d here ."
"yeah dude you got us. nice one. those damn goonies will be crying for days over this."
"agreed. well done."
"/signededit: lucky 7th page"
"i hereby endorse the proposal by the op as put forth in the former thread."
"maybe support for this idea is not needed anymore, but wow. i can't believe i missed the original thread. i think it's a great idea, looks bloody good as well.support added anyways : "
"this issue passed in the meeting earlier today and will be brought to ccp's attention in august.woo"
"i support this as a long term naglfar pilot"
"<3"
"i think it's somewhat intentional as a means to control how many any one person can maintain without breaking.nevermind the boredom of the current chore, make them pretty so i can stomach to maintain at least one [1]."
"supporting looking at siege & torps mechanichs relating to the presented issue"
"repair citadel torps.*  citadel torpedos getting owned by smartbombs. - give smartbomb immunity or huge hp so it needs 3-4 hits from a faction sb to take down*  pre-siege torpedo's dissappearing - should do at least standard dmg.*  post-siege torpedo's dissappearing - should do full siege dmg"
"yup!"
"aye.i have fond memories about the time when one could still change the backgrounds to black, or tone down the brightness by any amount*, manually, when it wasnt forbidden yet.black space is so much nicer, just with the stars and the brilliant light of one sun.* e.g.: compare: this to this.viewing angle was roughly the same, just different zoom."
"/yes"
"same issues as everyone else - please let us turn these down or off completely. i miss the total black of the elite sky with just a sun and the stars."
"bright background = fail"
"i've left systems due to the background. when i have to play in letterbox mode just to see if my mods are on or not... yeah, that's pretty much crap.+1 for an nebula on/off option"
"/signed"
"in..."
"space is a pretty black place.make it so!"
"even though i am not color blind. i do, at times, have trouble to see which modules are on or off. mostly when flying with a green nebula in the background."
"i am color blind too, and i have a hard time seeing the health bars on targets if there is any kind of color in the background--i usually have to change the camera angle to find a nice spot of black space. similarly, i cannot tell if a module is active or going to finish a cycle and shut off without a black background.even more worrisome is overheating! even with a black background, i cannot tell if a module is overloaded or not!"
"/signedi'm colourblind, and it's a problem."
"signed.not colour blind myself, but i know a couple of eve players that are."
"dear ccp & csm,i am writing today to express some concerns about the current situation in 0.0 space, that is its risk vs rewards, as well as the logistic hassles tied to it. i'd like to think that among many others, i have given my ideas and thoughts on the complex industrial side of eve. i started playing a few months before rmr, and a lot has changed since then. but i have noticed some recent changes in new eden that i believed has made the game evolve backward. i have been carefully reading proposed changes, such as removing t1 loot. but 0.0 space also requires attention.many of the concerns and ideas put here have been discussed seperately, but i would like it to be seen from a general perspective and see how all of them together make 0.0 graver than it is thought to be.  current market situation the current mineral market situation, mainly the huge high-end price crash, is most probably due to the drone regions. by introducing a very easy way of dropping high end, you totally crashed the market. there used to be a big difference in pay between empire and 0.0, which made it attractive. eve-central has the buying median of tritanium at 2.5 last i looked, bringing the price of a full can of veldspar at just a little over 2mil isk. arkonor, currently the highest paying ore in new eden, is at a little over 13mil isk. we are taking a 730% increase or so. still worthy naturally, but before the drone regions, the pay increase was around 10 times that of empire. i see little reason why high ends needed a crash like this, thus allowing pvpers to do what a miner took months to specialize into.let's not forget the morphite crash that took place post-rmr thanks to skiffs, which even further reduced the rewards of 0.0. while the morphite issue is small and has long been forgotten, i believe something must be done about the drone regions. either lower the payout of compounds or drop the idea altogether and assign bounties. there should be no reason a pvper could replace the role of a miner, who has invested millions of sp and isk in training and equipment.my colleague akita has a great post about this troubling issue here which deserves more attention.  current 0.0 issues 1  pos & starbases0.0 has many issues, but i'll be looking at those touching the purely industrialists. you built 0.0 sov on the premise of pos, thus making pos warfare a very huge part of the game. i know you have been looking at this for a long time, so i won't even talk about pos warfare here. but starbases require some attention as well!in any great alliance there is always an industrial backbone- without it, the alliance would die. most of the time, industrial corps take care of the pos network. that is, setting up all the pos around, fueling, maintaining, gunning, etc. thanks for listening, after two years of begging, you finally allowed the use of freighters at onlined towers! thank god, fueling has become much more easier.however, setting up the towers is still a pain. a huge pain, and there is no good reason for it to be this way. ccp has always favored its pvpers, which is understandable as they are probably more numerous than the pure carebears, but onlining a deathstar can take up to a full day with the anchoring and onlining together! why would you make it so tenuous and difficult?"
"i suggest that a skill be introduced  or the current anchoring skill be modified  so that one extra module may be onlined or anchored simultaneously, per skill level. if youd like to avoid easy pos spamming by the enemy, then allow this skill to be effective only in a system where the alliance has sovereignty. having a dread alt myself, blowing up a tower doesnt take that long, especially not in my revelation! activate lasers, go watch a movie and move to the next one. it might make it harder for enemies to take sov in a system, but it wouldnt make it more difficult to erase it either. at which point both alliances would face the same timing to online towers and the equilibrium would then be back. as it currently is, the balance is nonexistent. as it currently is, setting up towers is simply such a big pain that it literally ruins the fun. i am positive i am not the only one that shares this opinion! 2  0.0 logisticahhh jump drives! anyone who has ever taken care of logistics pre-rmr will remember the pain. fellow ex-ascn capsuleers might recall the 4 hours long freighter runs, consisting of a 100 ships escort and 15 freighters traveling across 40 jumps to empire, than the next day back home in 0.0. at that time it was a pain indeed, but as pointed earlier, the rewards were much bigger, if only in terms of asteroids for the carebears. then you brought in carriers, which saw a use you never intended to happen: logistics. jump drives was marvelous to us pilots in charge of logistics. the ability to reach empire in a few minutes was simply a gift of the gods. the trend gave birth to something new: mineral compression. it existed before, but it made way more sense now given the limited cargo size of the carrier. like you didnt intend us to put haulers in our ship bay and use it as a big hauler, you never intended the use of t1 modules to compress ore. without knowing it, you gave us a great tool. but then you tried to fix it and brought the jump freighter in. you nerfed mineral compression as well to compensate for the increased cargo, but you missed other major issues that make the jf such an imperfect ship for its role. 3  jump freighters *** this my most pressing issue i have freighter 5 and jump calibratrion 5. realized it made the moving much easier, a good 80 days spent. but when you nerfed the use of carriers as logistic ships to oblivion, you destroyed one of your best creation, one that ironically, was an accident to begin with.you might have boosted the jf further, but its use is still very limited. looking at the hauling capabilities, assuming a travel fit of the three capital classes used in this role:thanatos: 39,000 m3, 7.5yr jump rangerorqual: 173,000 m3, 5yr jump range  assuming you want the hassle of 40 gsc rhea: 378,000 m3, 5yr jump range"
"now let's have a look at the value of the ships:thanatos: 700milrorqual: 1.5bilrhea: 4.5bilthose prices are an approximation, but is there something that strikes you? a 4.5bil ship that doesnt even have the ability to cloak, that costs 3 times more than the rorqual for barely more than twice the capacity deserves to be looked at. simply put, if you intended to jf to be the answer to 0.0 logistic issues, it failed. even with jump calibration 5, the voyage to deep 0.0 regions still requires 2-3 jumps through dangerous space, rarely all of it belonging to the same alliance. sure, its great for the small alliances in territories bordering empire, such as catch, providence, but not ones like deklein, fountain, cobalt edge, branch and the likes.therefore you risk a ship worth 4.5bil, with a cargo thats worth perhaps just as much, through dangerous stationless 0.0 space, with no ability to cloak whatsoever to wait for cap to recharge and jump again.jump bridges? when i can use jump bridges, i use the vanilla freighters! my charon costs 5 times less, hauls three times more, and has the protection of the towers it travels through. therefore, i would propose the following:- significantly increase the jump range of jf, at least to carrier levelor- give it one high slot to allow us to cloak it and make the trips a little  very little  safer.as it currently is the jf is most useful for low-sec operations, but again, the risks vs rewards ratio of using it for 0.0  which i suppose is why you brought it into the game after nerfing carriers  is so huge that i dont see why i should use my rhea over my rorqual for the trips.4  carrierswith the pos warfare you created, and the super capitals you designed, you made it so that 0.0 power is now defined by the number of dreadnoughts and titans a fleet has. not covering the fact your server infrastructure was never meant to support huge number, whoever zergs the other has the upper hand. look at the current situation: the russians zerging the entire universe. having fought them, the reason theyve gotten this far isnt their pvp skills, its the sheer number they have. enough detouring, back to my main topic. as i have explained the power of an alliance correlates with the number of dreads and titans, not motherships or carriers. after nerfing the carriers primary role  again, that you never intended but that players chose to make of it , what possible use to they have now?thats right, pos shield repping! thats pretty much it theyre still useful for hauling stuff around, but 39,000 is hardly a lot of space. so id like to know the reasoning behind the nerf you pushed on us. you rendered carriers almost useless compared to what they were before, and replaced it by something you thought would actually fulfill the role better. in vain, as covered earlier, its a failure. not an epic one by any proportions, but its very imperfect.even with the boosted ship bay  1mil m3 , you can just barely fit 2x battleships in there. how useful are they really?"
"thus, i propose you give the carrier back some of its hauling abilities, or boost the jf significantly. as it is, both carriers and jf are most useful to my pirate alt and its corp in low-sec, but not my 0.0 life. 5  suicide ganking this does not touch 0.0 but requires attention as well. the current trend started by goons is completely senseless. while i agree concord should not be made to prevent, the consequences for suicide gankers must be increased. your official position that suicide ganking is allowed shows too big of a preference towards pvpers.having two pvp alts myself  and loving it , being a carebear makes me understand as well that no pvp would be possible without the industrialists, and something needs to be made. suicide ganking has became too easy and available.this simply a quick nudge towards the subject. it is not my main concern, so i will stop here and will cover the subject if csm feels the need to. conclusion i apologize for the lengthy post, but i believe my concerns are valid and warrant at least some sort of discussion among the industrialists of eve.thank you for reading, and i look forward to your ideas and comments.sincerely,halada"
"i agree to a review of kugs. ban  not necessarily an unbanning though this was such an incredibly hot-button topic, that some oversight seems very appropriate. btw, are there ninjas hiding in this forum? "
"outing accidentally? nohunting for the names and outing several gm on purpose? yes kug statement was that he would make hell for hell  paraphrasing, but that was the sentiment  for all ccp employees/collaborators as revenge for his ban. i would never readmit him in the game after he promised and did that for a period."
"from what i read and remember, he recieved an unjust punishment and the whole issue should be re-examined.unfortunately if we must rely on the csm to promote this, we are hosed as they seem rather inept thus far. at any rate i support this.the best part of threads like these is how easy it becomes to spot ccp and bob \"unmarked\" characters/alts."
"i would support a skill queue.have it hold at max 30 days worth of training including the skill you are training at the moment.if someone cancels their subscription the queue is cleared."
"i support this."
"dev response needed."
"it's not needed at all, just a handy extra. when you click start training you can see howlong it takes for your skill to end, if you can't be there at that time set another one that does enable you to do that."
"approve."
"no doubt, why don't they either take it off the drawing board, or implement it already?"
"supportin the op"
"why is this taking so long?"
"/signed"
"i think the first step is fixing how sov works. eliminate the need for these hundreds of towers that do literally nothing and yet still mine moon mins.either a tower is for sov and defense... or it's for mining...not both.after that i would address the distribution of the minerals themselves but adding alternate prints which allow the secondary minerals to create the primaries and allow some elasticity in the moon mineral market. all in all adding actual real value to moons.basically it would allow your mom and pop alliances in 0.0 space some actual weight in the goings on in in the market and allow them much needed isk flow to carve their own mini empire."
"aye, it at the very least deserves a discussion."
"i agreee whit this."
"supported"
"i'll agree with this, even though akita t needs to stop posting. forever."
"only if goonfleet pays me...[dr.evil voice]one thousand billion isk ![/dr.evil voice]"
"i think an easy solution to fix the current high end crash would be a total revamp of the drone alloys drops and take it out all together and replace with vanilla bounties, just like any other regions. i don't know what ccp was thinking with this, but it is senseless that a pvper who uses a ratting ship be able to get as much high end as a miner who has invested millions of isk and sp into training.the balance of high-end was in order before the drones region."
"you know whtas funny? thats the exact situation right now.the only difference your change will make is that the average target will need to be more expensive to be worth it. why do you need to mission in a 1bil ship when a 200mil raven will do just fine?not supported."
"why do people pvp in 200 mil hacs when a 10 mil cruiser will 'do just fine'? fun and effectiveness. just because you don't understand how people can have fun with the mission running/ship pimping playstyle doesn't mean they don't and shouldn't. sure, beyond a certain point a pimp ships should become suicider prey, but right now that point is way way too low imho."
"no insurance for concord killed ships.badly needed."
"i disagree with the original post."
"fully agree."
"this is what i see happening.. in the future. 0.0 is like empire. with outposts in every system.they are all controled buy the super alliances.. the eve usa, china, russia. and all the rest.. well they stay in true empire where they belong...how does a new alliance stand up to the old ones when the new alliances will be backed up buy 10 carriers and the old alliances who have sucked 0.0 for years with outposts everywhere will be backed up buy 1000 titans"
"i can't believe somebody like this is representing the community. fix it."
"i think it's interesting how jade got the most votes. but also had the largest thread made about him mind you, we had a vote during the last day of csm meetings. everybody supported that jade stays as chairman. i'm fairly happy about that."
"i disagree with removal."
"ccp, please moderate this thread.i do not understand why this thread has not been locked. the proposal cannot be implemented, whatever problem there was has been remedied and the proposal was an over the top reaction in the first place. generally i'm a critic of goonswarm and darius in particular, but even i didn't call for darius's removal unless he continued his misbehaviour. he hasn't and as a result i haven't.this thread serves no constructive purpose and only exists to attempt to grief the chair of the csm and even in that fails pathetically. it has no place in the assembly hall and if it deserves any continued existence it should be in the jita park speakers corner as it is more opinion than a proposal.best regards,windjammer"
"if this counsil is to be taken seriously, then you have to remove the people that are nothing more than a joke."
"well said."
"i support the op as edited to be dependent on average mineral prices : "
"prooving that nano pilots are total idiots.i guess reikoku made you more stupid than me"
"this sounds like a simple solution. then who cares if the vaga goes 6km a second. it cannot hold down the target and has to get very close to kill it."
"bye bye interceptors."
"absolutely not signed. and you could have used the other 1000 threads on it, including ones in this forum.the only \"imbalanced\" nanos are the pimped ones with snakes and poly-carbs; the only alteration that needs to be made is there. ccp has already given plenty of tools to deal with them, use them. your refusal to do so is no different than my refusal to put a tank on my ship when i go into combat. guess what? i'm not whining that a bs can easily destroy my ibis with its cargo expanders hey! its mr. \"a plated rapier with an ab is still a nano\"! nice to see you are still so fixated on this issue you're still spouting garbage."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i read the log and seriously i don't understand what people are not understanding. i really hope that ccp takes a really hard look at the nighthawk. it's all been laid out what is wrong with this ship, and there's tons to fix. the drake is a better ship and easier to fit than the nighthawk is, why is that?why is the nighthawk so hard to fit? should it really need why is its dps so poor? why does it have stupid bonuses? compared to the other command ships the nighthawk is a joke, lowest dps, slowest, hardest to fit, the nighthawk is on par with the drake, considering it costs many times a completely insurable drake, you have to ask, why use a nighthawk? to run missions? fitting gist modules on a nighthawk and killing npcs doesn't make it a good ship.ccp please save the nighthawk, you don't have to make it better than the sleipnir, absolution or even the astarte but can you please at least put it in the same ballpark as these ships? i can fly sleipnir and astarte and i can tell you straight up these ships are way way easier to fit and way way better for pvp than the nighthawk. the sleipnir especially is an amazing ship. i can't speak for the absolution but from what i've seen, it's a pretty nice dps machine and worth using."
"the nighthawk needs some more grid for pvp. while it is good for pve, commandships for clearly not a pve oriented class. supporting in the hopes that a future csm will address the issue, or that a dev will stumble across the thread."
"100% agree"
"i would say a battlecruiser class hull, but like a mix between a marauder, black ops, and astrometics ships.bonuses:t1 bonuses: 2x damage bonuses, 2x \"tanking\" bonusest2 bonuses: astrometric bonuses  scan time , cov ops cloaking bonusesrole bonus: 75% reduction in fuel needs for jump drive oh.. yea.. sounds powerful, eh?.. make it more useless for pvp than a marauder sensor strength of.. 5; sig radius of a crap ton  titan-sized sig radius for lulz ; and the agility of a freighter w/o agility skills."
"perceived problem: afterburners are not very useful in pvp.objective: to make afterburners more useful than a microwarpdrive, when webbed.examples of advantages: -if two ships of same fitting were to dual within webber range, that the speed tank advantage be on the side of the ship that fit an afterburner.-if a ship with an ab and a webber were to tackle another ship, there would be very little chance of escaping webber range.-defensive advantage. who knows what that belt ratter has equiped. an ab might make everyday pvp encounters much more uncertain.acknowledged imbalance with proposed counter-balance:-afterburners may then be used as an escape mechanism to escape enemy tacklers. an undesirable side-effect imo. i would not want people to both have an advantage within webber range and also be able to easily escape it. if other see this as a major flaw as i do, a possible solution might be to have webber resistance be a script, and the downside to the script could be a penalty to your own webber range, so that your webbers stop webbing your enemy before you can escape your enemy's webber range.proposed implementation: some amount of webber resistance w/ some amount of webber range penalty.i've currently measured 3 different values: 50%, 37.5%, and 25% webber resistance. the comparisons show in % how an abii would match up vs a mwdii when webbed. these all assume 90% speed reduction webbers. %'s ignore all other speed modifiers, looking at 100% as having no speed module activated and under no speed reduction.note: abii activated = 235% maximum velocity. mwdii activated = 650% maximum velocity.50% resist w/ 50% webber range penalty.mwdii webbed speed = 65% and 10km webber rangeabii webbed speed = 129.25% and 5km webber range37.5% resist w/ 37.5% webber range penalty.mwdii webbed speed = 65% and 10km webber rangeabii webbed speed = 103% and 6.25km webber range25% resist w/ 25% webber range penalty.mwdii webbed speed = 65% and 10km webber rangeabii webbed speed = 76.375% and 7.5km webber range this is only a moderate speed advantage, but consider all of the capacitor and fitting advantages an ab has over a mwd and its actually pretty good this proposed implementation values are open ended and just used as an example. i saw this idea a while ago and it looked like a very good idea to me.i am also not 100% convinced that a webber range penalty is a good idea, as it may very well defeat the purpose.  could simply stay in the sweet spot "
"i approve this idea. op is brilliant and sexy!"
"you can do this already by changing the digit and decimal values in your prefs.ini"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"so i'll preface this by saying, yes, reikoku has a vested interest in this facility - i'd guess we're not the only ones, though.so, i would like to request that the csm push for the ability for corporations to delist themselves from \"the stock market\"  which of course doesn't exist at the moment  in so much as all shares of the company would be deleted and the original 1000 shares would be deposited in either the corp wallet, or on to the ceo.thank you for reading."
"some \"rl\" data for consideration:to delist, it requires a 75% yes voteto force a compulsory buyout  another potential feature?  requires 95%+  iirc ."
"don't like people spying on your stuff? don't give out shares or control the shares better. i bought my shares fair and square from a person entitled to sell them to me. i expect to keep them in the original condition i bought them.if you desire privacy, there's already a mechanism for that. disband your corp and reform under a new aegis. onerous, but already accounted for by ccp, using existing game mechanics. you don't need to have the game changed to do what you want, you just want it to be easy.not signed."
"my understanding is that most of these story arcs were supposed to be tied to in game events. those events have had mixed results and though i was never fully versed on the details nor can i even remember what details i knew at the time; but i seem to recall that there was a great deal of 'drama' of the unfavorable kind on more than one occasion.short version: in game events with player interaction fell through, with the plan for the events disrupted the actually story never got finished.however events are not necessary for the story arcs to complete. make a few tweaks to npc character attributes and descriptions, make some news posts, etc./signed"
"not going to vote, since i agree with the majority of the posters..logo's: yescustom paint jobs: no\"theme's\": yes, only if you could limit to 2, maybe 3 themes per ship."
"as discussed in other places, there are a lot of things that could be added to improve the ui.i take a different slant. many of the activites in the interface cause me physical pain  from too many mouse clicks . every time i playing eve, my wrist hurts.we should get ccp to make the common activities much easier.  this includes looting, changing ammo, changing fittings, switching targets and tractoring,don't put \"trash it\" right next to \"make active\",etc"
"a few observations as i sit here in space:why is the right-most window control sometimes minimize and sometimes close? some windows can't be closed. but now i can never be sure of the result of clicking on the corner of a window without examining a subtle icon.why when i right click on a character's portrait in the chat user list do i get \"show info\" as the first option, but when i right click on their name in chat all the menu is the same except for the lack of \"show info\"? well, you can simply left click on the name to get an info window. but as a result my habit of right click, then select show info, which works virtually everywhere else in the game is now broken and has special case i need to remember.why is it i can drag most items into chat, but if i have the info window of an item there's no way to drag it to link it?why can i not drag results from people and places searches?why are some windows, like the channel settings window, 'modal'  they become the only window you can interact with until they're closed ?why can i not assign a key to activate a whole row of modules? or why not assign control groups much like an rts? i've heard mumblings about making macros easier but that's no excuse. macros will always be possible, there's no point in punishing us to delay macro-programmers a whole 15 minutes.why is the \"analyze\" button all the way at the bottom of the system scanner window and not in the separator between the probes list and the scan type groups list? why is the \"new scan\" button also at the bottom and not at the top in the empty space next to the scan progress indicator? why must i re-select my probe  even my built-in ship scanner  for every new scan?why does the ship control interface only show one module rack at a time  hi/med/lo ? oh. right. well we sure have come a long way = and now that i'm done listing complaints:beyond the basic requirement that it actually function and meet the specifications for the game design: the evolution of the eve ui seems to have been driven by two primary concerns that can be attributed to two professions of developer: what's the minimal complexity to program, attributed to of course the programmers. and what is aesthetically pleasing and follows the eve \"look and feel\", attributed to the artists.but ui is about much, much more than that. it's about consistency. it's about discoverability. it's about reducing the number of clicks, the distance of mouse travel, and so on.one must be careful not to mistake ui design with game design. and to not confuse simplification with automation. it certainly would save us a lot of mouse clicks if we had a button labeled \"start mining\" and it would change to \"stop mining\" while our ships wandered the belts collecting ore. as nice as that might, ahem, it's not what we're after in this discussion = i know this is a bit long winded and might sound a bit preachy. one of the first  if not the first  post i made on the eve beta forums was about ui issues. i wouldn't say you've \"touched a nerve\" exactly, but i've certainly given it some thought already = in conclusion: ccp is very proud of hiring an architect and a costume designer for ambulation. when ccp had 30 employees it wasn't feasible to do that. and likewise it was unfeasible to have an employee that is responsible for ui consistency and the authority to hold things in the pipeline while tweaks are made for usability.but things have changed, haven't they?my wrists sure hope so."
"as with nearly every eve ui thread ever, /signed."
"no one can provide proof for what you say except ccp, this is a simple fact of reality.you don't believe in what ccp has said about fw vs alliances, ergo you won't ever get solid proof to prove you wrong, so obviously you already won the entire argument."
"at the csm summit, ccp said  according to all the csm members anyway  that it would be a trivial proccess to let corporations within alliances to participate in fw. it would literally be a value they'd change from 0 to whatever they wanted the maximum limit to be."
"there are some significant reasons alliances are not allowed in fw and none of them have anything to do with coding or hardware.windjammer"
"to put simple physics in mind if a titan creates such a massive gravity well, then why can't it begin to be attracted to another titan?imagine this scenario: 3 titans begin slowly moving towards one another. warning klaxons go off, smaller ships get sucked into the gravity torrent, and finally the 3 ships collide, exploding simultaniously.that would prevent a multisupercapital fleet."
"enough titans to dd a cap fleet will also destroy each other.it is a self correcting situation.like the previous thread on this, i would like to see some ship ownership metrics before we run around crying about cap-ships online."
"capital and titan roaming gangs my *** !"
"titans need a review but i'm not so sure your solution is a good one.what we really need is a full review of 0.0 empire building that also includes the role of titans. i dont think this is a problem that can be fixed without considering more than just that ship. but with the tendency of csm to break things up into smaller issues i dont think csm is the forum to really discuss 0.0."
"i'm sure someone as smart as yourself can see this blatently isn't true. 1  a blob of 30 titans is almost certain to include some erebus/leviathin. those two titans give an immense hp bonus to the rest of the gang. seeing as how erebus seems to be more common than leviathan, have levi as fleet commander, and an erebus on each wing. now everyone has 30-37.5% more tanked hp over all.yes, the enemy dreadfleet can have titans in its gang, but not only does this mean groups without titans online cannot deploy capital ships, but the chances of having people with titan 5 in a group of 30 is far greater than if you only have 2-3 titans.2  titans have more hp /anyway/. t2 fit, with dual cap reps, an archon has just over 1.5m effective hp, a revelation a little under 2.2m, and an avatar at 3.8m. no dread can get more ehp than a revelation with comparable fit, and no titan can get /less/. this is without the amplifying effect of leviathans and erebus.in any case, comparable fits are unlikely - if you are doling out 30 titans at 50bn each, its quite cheap to spend 1bn on deadspace hardeners and 2bn on a slave set. while full officer fits are unlikely with a titan blob on that scale, you can maximise ehp relatively cheaply, especially on armour. this is not going to be the case with every dreadfleet in the game.a deadspace hardener slave avatar with an erebus in gang has 10m ehp. even a dodgy badly-fit armor tanked ragnarok can achieve 5.5m, while a rev with the same treatment only 4.7m. even without extreme fittings, a correctly setup titan blob can take down infinitely sized fleet composed of any ships but titans. they will all survive, and most will still be within their tanked medium, not in structure. are you seriously of the opinion that nobody will ever be able to put together that many titans, considering that more than enough are already in the game to do this, and growth is accelerating?"
"mission salvaging live mission for people not in the gang is not right it mission belongs to the player it was given too and it should be up to that person if he wants to salvage it or not .. other should not be able to warp in and salvage with out being a target just like stealing out of a can it's a live mission no free space..."
"you are absolutely correct. knives are overpowered and forks and spoons need a boost to compensate."
"everywhere in space is free space. just because you happen to be running a mission somewhere does not make that area of space 'yours'. as to salvage, concord have stated that they place no value on wrecks therefore they are not classed as property. so, anyone can salvage them if they can find them, without concord intervention.if it bothers you that much that people do this then i suggest either a  sacrificing a few points on agent quality and moving to a less populated system, or b  loot and salvage as you go."
"meeting 6 chatlog is viewable hereshort version: 1. we're going to ask for two volunteers from the next five csm alternates tornsoul, albi the'cybermagican, ben derindar, arithron, jess icato replace 2 non-responsive alternatives.gritt pebbledasher, azzazelli'll be writing to these chaps this week and asking if they can step up. if more than two accept it'll be top down selection in order of votes received. 2. we'll be contacting the eve forum mods and asking them to cooperate in locking all assembly hall issue threads that have already been addressed -  escalated or denied . 3. will be contacting ccp for specific schedules for the next two formal meetings so we know when our issues needed to be submitted. on this weeks issues: 1. alliance corporations to join fw militias  without leaving their alliances  was escalated for ccp discussion.2. fixes to precision heavy missiles were escalated for ccp discussion.3. combat dynamics got split into 5 sub issues, dd through shields = rejected. pos alliance standings = accepted. jump gate aggression timer clearing = accepted. damage on kill mails after jumping = rejected. kill mails for sd'ed targets = rejected.4. small faction/pirate ships = rejected.5. fix minimatar capitals = escalated for ccp discussion.thats that."
"ok come on cp a little late no you haven't posted anything so far."
"the cynic in me is saying that now that the delay has allowed e-on to be released, including what is pretty much an exclusive article on the iceland meeting, ccp might actually post up a few more minutes."
"if ankh's been having trouble, why hasn't dierdra done it? i thought this was the exact reason for having a vice-secretary, to fill in when the secretary can't do the job for whatever reason."
"i've been having some personal issues but the minutes were completed a week ago. not sure why they have not been published yet."
"can you post them on some other site and provide a link, or maybe get serentity to host them on the csm site? even a cheap blogger account would be plenty to sate the ravenous hordes of csm-watchers aka, me ."
"we do really need ccp to sign off on these since we did have to sign nda's and its possible they might not be happy with some stuff in the minutes. sorry about the delay, but we have to be responsible and ensure ccp are content for this stuff to be released."
"bump for maestro - this thread has the minutes  all but the iceland trip  locations you seek."
"locked.non-constructive."
"nvm, i missed the primary focus of your post. my mistake.however to the qualms expressed by other posts, i don't see a problem with being able to effectively buy isk for cash. players still have to skill up."
"by allowing outside real world money into the economy of eve, eve's economy is \"artificially\" influenced. when that happens it's not a closed in game economy and the player driven aspect of the economy is weakened. since one of the strongest means of pvp is economic, you can see how this is a problem.being able to purchase isk for cash removes a dynamic from the game by allowing a player to ignore, for the most part, the means by which isk is earned inside the game. essentially allowing a player to pursue a line of play that might be unsupportable in any other fashion. also, there is the strong potential for people with large amounts of real life disposable income to simply purchase their way to a dominate postion.you also have the problem of people using isk to purchase game time. some are far more able than others to pursue this. for instance they may belong to a large 0.0 located alliance with high income per pilot and be able to easily play eve for free using 0.0 assets. this tends to balloon into people having multiple accounts and not really paying anything for them. this is a disproportionate weighting giving them more power than people who pay ccp real money for an account.essentially, this gives more power to people who play for free than people who actually pay ccp money.i'm sure ccp's economist has a lot to say on this matter both in terms of in game play and in terms of ccp's real world cash flow. ccp might be able to use a bit of extra cash to put into developement and fixing bugs.regards,windjammer"
"/democracy"
"i want more pics:d ambulation in pos would be sweet as well."
"/signedthe nidhoggur needs alot of love exspecially in the capacitor departmentit simply cant sustain more then one repper and still fit for a tank, even with the armor reps offits the least survivable, least sustainable, and toughest to fit out.the only thing that it needs to fulfill its capital repper role is a significant boost to capacitorthis would boost its abilities to shield tankbut id happily take a reduction in midslots, provided i got more cap"
"support, quotin dis for truth"
"is this the new features and ideas forum?"
"/signed...as someone who has done pos work in 0.0 i don't even have to read the post to know the truth of it."
"citadel torpedoes really suck. the smart bomb thing is really really sad.. it should take several smart bombs to wipe out a citadel torpedo, they should have a lot of hp. this is a huge issue for the naglfar and phoenix.. it's not -just- a caldari issue so you don't have to ignore it ccp..also..... why no capital cruise missiles? i think for pos popping the citadels are fine but for capital engagements where range is a factor, i would very much like to see a swift moving capital cruise launcher, a nice 8-12km/s missile for fleet fights.. you don't bring torpedoes to fleet fights and being stuck using capital torpedoes in fleets is rather meh..."
"rockets - 10 hp, 25 damage - 0.4 hp/damhams - 30 hp, 100 damage - 0.3 hp/damtorpedoes - 240 hp, 450 damage - 0.53 hp/damcitadel torps - 650 hp, 1800 damage - 0.36 hp/damc.t. in siege - 650 hp, 13050 damage - 0.05 hp/damsolutions ?either a flat increase of citadel torp hp to something like 1300-1775 hp - or - grant the siege module a \"missile hp bonus\" similar to the damage multiplier bonus to bring them up to an even higher hp  but only when in siege mode ."
"i'll try to stay polite ... but it's hard to grasp the extent of stupidity in this thread. how can you make demands like these when you have no clue *why* the torpedoes don't do damage to titans?no, it's not because they aren't tough enough, and no, it's also not because phoenix pilots are slow at shooting.the problem is explosion velocity in siege mode  14.0625m/s  combined with the fact that supercapitals cannot be webbed.citadel torpedoes need to have an explosion velocity somewhere between 30 and 50 in siege mode in order to be useful for hitting supercapitals. but this is a nano whine all over again."
"pan, if the explosion velocity was the problem  and i do agree with you that their effectiveness against anything not sitting still is crap ...well, it is a problem.but in that example log, you didn't see \"your citadel torp hit for 0 damage\" which would be indicative of the above. you didn't see any status at all--meaning the torps never made it to their destination. they were popped by smartbombs.its kind of funny--citadels being so slow mean they can conceivably get several rounds of smartbomb \"love\" applied to them. so while other missiles may not be popped by one due to timing or simple speed, the citadel is more likely to be destroyed, even though it should arguably be the hardest/toughest misl out there."
"oh dear. firstly, this doesn't explain the minimal damage done to capitals, and secondly, it doesn't explain the absence of any damage message at all  i.e., hits for 0.1 damage\". stupidity indeed."
"agree."
"i've already rolled this into the discussion on buffing minmatar capitals  i.e. naglfar , but here's a thumbs up for you anyway."
"excellent idea"
"this."
"i actually dont think this is a good idea. heavy logistics bcs would be a lot more useful, being able to do heavy remote repping in a bs gang while absorbing a lot more than their cruise counterparts.similarly, and vice-versa, there should be a command frigate."
"signed"
"/signedever try mission running in a system with green nebulae?impossible to tell which module is overloaded, on or inactive!"
"it has my vote."
"1.1"
"dif you can't see your targets or modules then try the letterbox mode  i think they call it \"widescreen\" in the graphics settings  which places black bars at the top/bottom of the screen."
"i am very tired of dim backgrounds unexpectedly making my eyes burn as a nebula/sun appears and literally hurts my eyes. if i turn down my monitor's brightness to compensate, everything else gets *really* dim. eyestrain either way, tbh.so, /signed."
"bump for a darker background"
"i support mostly black space, but for a slightly different reason. black space with some sparse nebulae would look much more like space, and less like some fantasy sky that it currently resembles./edit/ it took me around 20 tries to post this message. that is truly fvcking sick. the fvcking looser who maintains this forum needs to get his/her ass fired asap."
"the color of active modules has driven me nuts since they altered the pulsing green with revelations 1. i still need to swivel my view half the time to see the fricken icons and if they are on or off./supported"
"tried it. absolutely hated it even more than the bright nebulae."
"posting in a chribba thread - he gave me shineys!"
"good enough for me"
"imagines chribba flying through an ateroid belt obliterating asteroids with massive mining lasers..."
"as a miner myself, i say that only good things can come of this. you have my support."
"yes indeed, a dread should be have capital mining beams."
"yes, capital mining lasers oh god yes as for phoenix, maybe give it torpedoes that drills inside a roid and blows it up, leaving the ore scoopable in spacein the future mining ddd's could be introdouced, theese would blow up any roid on grid and leave the ore scoopable in space for balancing maybe make is so that only roqual can scoop blownup ore in space"
"it should be just a really big claw that reaches out and eats roids"
"agree. 1400mm's have needed a bit of rebalancing for a long time."
"increased jumped range and jammer immunity would be so wonderful. i can't actually see myself going into battle though."
"i like the idea."
"i like the ideai think it might actualy make 0.4, 0.3, 0.2 and 0.1 less safe than 0.5 because of pirates avoiding sec hitsedit to add support"
"well said, and yes indeed it requires immediate attention."
"signed and double signed..fix now. sooner than later ccp please. your game needs some tender love and care. skip whatever expansion you have planned, put them on the back burner and tighten up your ship. clean the cupboards, and straighten the mess that has been made of the last 3 expansion....please for the love of all that is holy. polish this wonderful creation you have before you add on more."
"couldn't have said it better myself"
"damn halada... i take back all the bad things i ever said about you. : -liang"
"here here!with the way it is, no way known would i take my jf 5 jumps into 0.0 without a cloak! strictly empire pos management!0.0 rorqual trips ftw!"
"oops dubble post"
"supported"
"excellent points."
"i said it before they went \"live\"--jump freighters are made of fail.needs buffing in some manner."
"agreed."
"got my support, for what it's worth.."
"kugu is a waste of carbon. banning him was a service to the rest of us, no matter what the real story behind the hacking gig really was."
"hell yes"
"as long as training is paused for cancelled subscriptions i fully endorse this idea."
"given the rate at which sinks work, that could be a possibility soon enough"
"exactly, if people would look at the historical data, you'll make a clear note that megacyte, zydrine, and noc in particular since this makes a large portion of the midline ores  low sec not null  were all tracking much higher than they are now. while your low end ores were tracking much lower.the only difference before the introduction was that mex was tracking higher than normal. this was do in part to the absurd amount of the stuff required for capital ship production  why this is the second most used min instead of pye for the bulk of production is anyones freaking guess "
"you don't even have to remove'em - just balance them out in a \"typical ship-building ratio\""
"a fix to the crazy price of dysprosium and promethium should have been done long ago already."
"if you don't want suicide ganked in highsec, don't be a high profit target. in the case of freighters, don't be an un-escorted high value target. bring friends with ecm.as soon as they open fire on you they become global criminals, your friends can ecm or damp at will. most ships won't survive the first jam cycle.not supporting this."
"unless you're running like 4 officer mods or 8 faction mods i wouldn't bother.are you doing that?cause in the eve universe that would be a notbright thing to do.especially given that lag in a mission can kill you just as dead."
"how about ecm modules anchored in high sec near gates. this would have 2 results. it would allow the ganked to possibly escape due to lock loss by aggressors."
"you may be exercising sound economic judgement. and that's all well and fine. however, at the moment it seems suicide ganks occur primarily for the \"lulz\" effect with \"ooh, look! shiny!\" as the secondary effect  cherry on top . suicide ganking should be a high-risk daring undertaking in high sec, of which at the moment it is none. see jihadswarm for proof."
"wrong. suicide ganks is a way of making a living, noone spends hours scanning missionrunners and the effort of getting half a dozen bs'es together for 'the lulz'.so basically what you are 'fighting for' is the right to fit mission ships overly expensive..well guess what..doing so comes with a risk.."
"socratesz,not true. you can suicide-gank a ship with one ship alone  and another non-aggressed to scoop up the loot. again, see any of the numerous jihadswarm threads.don't misunderstand. i'm not for completely nerfing suicide ganks. nor am i fighting for the right to fit mission ships overly expensive. i am, however, against suicide-gank being risk-free or minimally risky. if you have assembled a dozen battleships and have spent hours scanning for the right target at the right time then good for you. you deserve that juicy clumsy target coming your way. that is not what i am against.imho, it is way too easy to suicide-gank in high sec. the consequences are just a slap in the hand and the rewards are extravagant. anyone can do it. it doesn't take much planning, character skills, or player skills. hell, i can use a couple of alts to suicide-gank a mining ship in high sec. and i don't think the solution to an osprey pilot is to have escorts in high sec so he can mine veldspar. there should be a possibility to be blown up. but i would like for the perpetrator to think it twice  or better yet three times  before ramming his disposable ship into the osprey."
"some idiots tried to suicide my af the other night, carrying a whole 8m in datacores. 8 million isk in datacores. no officer/faction mods, jut plain t2.they didn't succeed  tank was turned on, i get nervous at times  but the point is that the practice is far too common. when you can't pass through any gate in certain regions of eve without seeing a potential suicide group or getting scanned, there are obviously not enough drawbacks to the \"profession\"."
"here's my .02 isk on the subject:1  maybe, but you'd have to make a counterset. right now, some npcs are extremely tough to kill  zor, kayzum mother drone, and one other where they are in a middle group of 5 groups and fire missiles .2  only if you increase the bounty on ships accordingly. the difficulty of missions usually equals the rewards, and removing all t1 loot will only reduce mission payout  smartbombs and such can sell for a lot .3  incorporate that into fw missions. pveers have setups that we like, and the last thing we need is another module that needs to be used  minmatar usually have to fit webbers, amarr/gallente fit cap rechargers, and crapdari fit shield mods .4  agreed, but only to an extent. having all frigs would be too easy or hard depending on weapons used. maybe have a chance of some ships being upgraded to t2  web/scram/etc , but keep the overall layout.is missions grinding? sometimes, yes. however, when i come home from a tough day of work, i enjoy taking out my aggression on such enemies. maybe making missions more tricky would work  as #4 above , but what about different mission types  like cargo delivery, except that you have to put something in a container, etc ."
"mission could take some love, agreed. especially random spawns would make it more challenging. i'm unsure for the t1 loot. some give nice isk  like the mentioned smartbombs fe , and others generate rare minerals like zydrine which you usually don't get in high sec."
"/signed"
"i don't know if it has already been discussed, but i propose that:agent quality becomes directly proportinal to agent standing. in other words, all agents start out with low quality towards an individual. but as you grind missions with them their quality goes up along with your standings toward them. so agent quality would be based on individual standings toward the player.that means i can pick *any* agent anywhere and eventually work standings high enough not to worry about switching to a higher quality agent say, in motsu or saila. now rewards and lp would still be significantly higher in lower security systems. but agent quality depends on how long you've run missions with that specific agent."
"/signedcaldarip pvp needs a little love, yes i use ecm but ecm doesn't get the final blow lolsauce, and the precisions are good place to start. don't give a crap about pve tbh  "
"agree. fixing t2 variant missles to combat nanoships, or at least making them more effective would go a long way to rebalancing the nano issue, given the large population of caldari and missle skill based characters in game."
"i don't believe this thread is still going. i stopped caring about the issue a long time ago, once i realized that this first meeting is a test. if the csm can survive with jade in charge, it can survive just about anything. so, while i still despise almost every little hypocritical thing jade does in eve, i still see this as a very interesting sociological test for the csm body. i hope it survives. rock on."
"avon: things are a little rougher than they were even when i started... back in 2004 when i started, you didn't get gatecamps and suicides on miners  although ore thieves were around by then .i support the idea and suggest two other possible ideas: decrease in the cost of insurance based on concord secrat and a decrease in payout for all pilots based on the security rating of the system. that will stop 0.0 pilots from benefiting  whether that is a good or a bad thing is up to you - it could be argued that you are beyond concord's monitoring and so cannot be confirmed . coupled with the t1 payout adjustment  leave t2 as it is or possibly remove it completely  and the removal for piracy  a true pirate will simply adjust their profit/loss figures to find the new bottom line  you will see better piracy and less ganking  there is a difference , it will protect empire miners and the like who stick to high-sec  they won't be safe, but they'll not be as badly hit by a suicide  and those who delve into low-sec will have a little more danger but not lose the safety net altogether.right now, as said earlier, you have the weird system where ship cost + insurance cost is very close to the payout, meaning the ship is very cheap to buy and insure. this should not be the case for pirates  they need costs for their business just like the traders/merchants/builders they prey on , nor for those beyond concord's protection  and engaged in active fighting on another nation's behalf usually .i've been based in 0.0  i'm ex-dmgi and ex-fix  and fought there, i've flown alongside bob and mc and have lost plenty of self-funded ships and didn't insure any of them as far as i know... pvp is too unpredictable - you might lose it or it might survive as long as it takes for the insurance to run out. i've also got a t2 production character, so i can see it from both sides.so yes, i agree with the no-insurance for piracy and adjusted insurance for t1, but i disagree with insurance for t2. i'd also like to see adjusted insurance for security rating of the system the ship was lost in and also cost for the pilot taking out the insurance with discount for \"careful pilots\". perhaps also for security rating increases based on time for positive pilots as part of this  to a set maximum? .avon: a little more to your liking, or no?"
"i agree on the part for suicide ganking, but t2 is somehow controversial. simply because me thinks, if one cannot afford loosing a \"uninsured t2\", he would probably switch to the t1. which is in fact, a sort of balancing. on the other hand, when flying a t2 ship, you would have to take a t2 fit as well, which makes this whole thing very expensive.my solution would go like this: no insurances at all, except t1 frigates for the new eve citizens. fly what you can afford to loose. end of story."
"support"
"nice pvp. you just killed the industrials building ships. but i agree with the fact insurance needs to be looked at."
"t2 ship agreement"
"i don't agree with this, as the proposal is not only based on flawed assumptions, but is also open to massive abuse."
"supported, the way insurance functions now i'd rather see it removed completely."
"thumbs down - ayeneutral - no way if you are a neut then abstinence is best!"
"thumbs up for the thumbs down."
"it is awful by its omission.signed."
"this is an issue i'm bothering with for a very long time. since there is only the usual crappy comments on the numerous thread on the forums, i'll give the csm a try.my intention is simple:i want to close the gap between the standard tier 1 ships to their tier 2 counterparts. actually everybody uses t2 stuff if he has the skills for it, leaving t1 non competetive. faction vessels could close this gap partially if their pricing and stats would be updated to a level where flying them would make some sense. to underpin this, you just have to take a look to the killboards  or gates you travel by  to realize that nobody actually flys them. well, except some collectors and the bunch of lvl4 cnr runners.considering the fact, that you don't have character classes in eve, a wide variety in ships is all you have. and the gap between t1 frigs - assault ships/interceptors is huge, not only in terms of stats but value and skills! same goes moderated for crusiers.i would like to encourage the csm to vote for a reduced lp requirement for the standard navy frigates  firetail, hookbill, comet, slicer . they should fit right in the middle between t1 and t2, both, with their price and firepower. something between 5 and 10 million isk should be adequate. the pirate faction frigates should have some pvp/ewar bonus, pricing around 15m. as a result, we would actually get 9 ships that would be used and not only stand in some hangars! and yes, dramiel needs a major boost!for cruisers, it's a bit different, as there are allready some that fit in terms of firepower and pricing. see the navy caracal or vigilant. most of the others fit in value, but lack balancing. see gila, navy exequror or navy osprey.buttom line is, i would like to see faction frigates/cruisers beeing reasonable affordable and useful for pvp, to give the new pilots a grip to somehow compete with the veteran t2 capabable pilots. i would like to see more variety and different roles for t1 faction, to somehow get a grip to the huge variety of t2. compare for yourself:frigates --> assault ships, electronic attack frigates, interceptors, covert opscruisers --> hacs, hics, recons, logisticseverbody complains about to few newbs in lowsec to bash, wonder why if it takes months of training to comtete? faction vessels would and should perfectly fit here, and reduce the huge gap between t1 and t2 a little."
"there's problems with lowering the lp costs, namely devaluing them: how do you compensate all of the mission runners in the loss of lp/isk? also this would destroy their uniqueness as anyone who can't fly tech 2 or afford it would fly them. i guess it comes down to whether or not you want to keep them unique, rare and with a very special niche or just have them be run-of-the-mill combat ships.  of which we have plenty to choose from.  frankly, i understand the issues with faction ships and that they do have something missing, but you should also see how difficult an issue it is as to what to do with them. same could be said for assault ships but to a lesser extent."
"i get your point, but i don't see the devaluing effect on lp. if you need 2500 lp and 2.5 million isk to get a comet out of lp store and sell it for 5m, you would still have your 1000 isk/lp.for the \"uniqueness issue\", yes. they wouldn't be unique anymore. but the pirate faction frigs would still be rare at least. anyways, i don't see a general benefit of a uniqueness. basically, unique means they are database corpse. at least if the pricetag does not match their abilities in any way, as it's used to be atm. i can understand that it would not be inline with ccps plans for faction stuff. and i have to admit, that i tend to see faction over t2 over t1. in this case the problem is, that t2 is actually better than faction, ships and many modules. buff the faction stuff over t2 and leave the pricing as it is  i mean like a lot more expensive than t2 , i could well live with that.*edited for typo*"
"i thin troy with devaluing of the isk/lp mean the devaluing of the isk/lp spent in the past to buy the ship. i.e. if ship a did cost 25.000 lp +25 millions in the past and after the change it cost 10.000 lp and 10 millions, all the ship in players hangars move form a value of 50 millions to a value of 20 millions.not a big problem as players owning faction ships usually aren't poor. maybe an alternative could be to make the current  or most of the current  faction ships the equivalent of \"named\"  metaitem 1-4 like for the modules  ships, introducing some \"true\" faction ship  better than t2 . the state issue ships could be a example of \"true\" faction ships. the \"named\" ships would have good prices, at around t2 level, easier skills but less good than t2. true faction would have huge prices like all the good faction stuff. this could even partially resolve the high end isk sinks for players. if those faction ships are only available through npc they could sink a lot of isk out of the game."
"well, yes, why not. but that would overshoot the mark a little ;  actually a slight rebalance would allready deal a great benefit.as for your idea of the state issue vessels. agreed, it's a shame that merely less than 0.000001% own one. but it's only 4 bs if i count correctly. i think these would perfectly fit as a reward for the factional warfare, which is actually missing any reason for even participating. of course, only one per player who reaches 9.9 fw standing, pretty much the same as the highest cosmos missions."
"absolutely positively agreed here."
"another flanders? how could i not support you?"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"/signed"
"agree. there should be parity among t2 ammo types, and close range and missles could definitely use a rethink."
"this"
"nice idea."
"whatever can be done to balance ammo would be good, one way or another. go ahead and change on or the other, or both, faction and t2 ammo. cost and demand is one thing, but it doesn't balance against what some t2 ammo is."
"this thread just killed my invention/producion plans for t2 short range crystals, plese boost them so i can make some isk lol"
"/signedi remember all too clearly the complaints from ccp about super-fast speed modded raxes using twin bs class mwds that would only run for a while before running out of cap... this lead to the nerfing on mwd and the \"only one burner/mwd per ship\" rule.to me, 13km/s is far too fast... it needs to be dropped a bit.solution to me would be to remove snake implants and any other implant that gives a bonus to speed, for one thing. looking at adjusting the stacking penalties for nanos may be another to encourage less extreme modifications.edit: i would also add that improving missiles  increased speed, flight time and explosion speed would all help to counter interceptors and nanoed ships. right now, unless the vaga pilot is pretty useless, heavy precision missiles  the intended counter to these ships  just doesn't cut it. i managed to kill one vaga with a cerberus that was rigged up to do so and using precisions and that was a damned close call... and from the sound of things, that guy was slow compared to others. usually as soon as you open fire, they just open the range and laugh. you can't even use cov-ops to warp to them since they're always moving fast.*something* needs to be done to hit the super-fast hacs and rein in the interceptors a little to make them more sane speeds, while still letting them fly faster than anything else."
"the biggest issue i see with nano's is that they kill the tank or gank idealism of most of the ships. many ships are fit solely for one of those roles, and a nano doesn't need to fit a tank since it's speed is its tank, and the gank can be fitted in there also. since their tank is their speed they don't need to use up all their lows fitting an effective armor tank  and shield tankers have it easier . 3 od's and a nano is usually the best you can do with polycarbs fit, the rest just becomes unhelpful. that often leaves space for 1-2 damage mods which don't usually get fit on a fully tanked ship."
"it's whines like these that are killing the game- nerf this- nerf that- minnie is crap cause of ....- amarr is crap cause of ....eve is a hard game with a steep learning curve, learn to deal with it. ecm boats, damp em or get close on themneut boats, stay out of their neuting rangenano's, web emall these stupid whines killed the damp effectivness, ruined nanophoons and so on.it's time you learn to play the game as it is supposed to be played instead of whining.if it's too hard go and play wow, at least that way the lag in jita will lessen"
"i support this idea. either the nanos should be nerferd or the should be more counters to it. sitting in a neut-bs is another fake-solution."
"so? say your enemy does a capital hotdrop. that means he's just put at risk a lot of assets and manpower. what's wrong with them gaining the upper edge with it? what prevent you from having your own cap fleet in reserve to do a counter hotdrop?above all, what twisted logic make you think that if you're not willing/able to put as many players and isks on the line, you still should be immune to losing a fight against those who do?how do you kill a nano ship? i'm not speaking about driving it away, but actually preventing from running. it require either a huginn/rapier that is nanoed itself, and as such just as overpowered than any other nano ship, or several people. simple logic say nano fits encourage blobing, not the contrary.explain this to me:an alliance is willing to put all the stops to answer a threat  massive mobilisation , has a strongly fortified position  bubbles, cyno-jammers , is willing to put at risk the expensive toys  cap ships .and you dare suggest they shouldn't be able to have an effective defense?no defense is 100% effective. you can still penetrate one such like that with interceptors, cloakers, destroyers and the like. use those, or use brute strength and get your own bs fleet with capital support, instead of wanting what is, for all intends and purposes, an interceptor with 9k half-hardened shields and 300 to 500 dps."
"dis."
"i am against a general nano nerf, but if nanos are the only countermeasure vs. nanos, countermeasures should be looked at imho."
"the game already offers all countermeasures- neut ships with ranges up to 60 - 70 km if you have the right setup, skills and support ships present- rapiers with webbing range over 100 km with the right setup, skills and support- counter nano'sand don't tell me neut ranges of 60 km or web ranges over 100km are impossible. i do them daily. if it's impossible than you are 1  fitting your ship wrong 2  not skilled enough yet 3  lacking a significant gang boost 4  missing an important ship in your gangthe game has all it needs to counter nano gangs, people are just too much focused on speed, raw dps and km whoring instead of thinking about the survival of their gang"
"and that is exactly why nanos/speed fits need to be in the game; variety.gank is always greater than tank, hence wins. but against nanos you need your tank otherwise their pitiful dps will wear you down. and your \"gank\" setups can't track or reach them, you need to \"compromise\" your fittings to kill them.that is the real reason these whines even exist. to effectively counter speed fitted ships you have to deploy smaller, faster drones, lighter missiles and smaller, fast-tracking guns. you have now severely hurt your \"gank\" ability, leaving you less likely to be able to kill a tank ship or out-dps a gank ship.speed fits are the 3rd part of the rock-paper-scissors game. their presense actually rewards tank ships as they can't break them and tanked ships can fit lighter armaments because the stuff doesn't take as much grid. they are the bane of gank ships because those ships sacrifice tank and are actually potentially in danger to the nano's weaker dps, but the high-damage guns can't track them/missiles can't hurt them.at the end of the day you either fit to kill nanos or you fit to kill gank/tank. chose the wrong one and you are likely dead. chose the right one and the enemy is thwarted. and if more people fit to counter nanos, there would be fewer out there."
"ships in eve need to slow down, current speed stacking is netting ships that are way too fast. interceptors have lost their role due to the power of nano-cruisers. it's very much imbalanced.ccp. why did you nerf oversized afterburners, dual mwds, ect ect? it made ships too fast. you nerfed all of this stuff in the past because it broke the game mechanics, so why are you allowing these setups to ruin your game?nanos are the new wcs but worse since they help you offensively and defensively, and keep you in the fight, unlike wcs which only allowed people to flee combat. nanos let you flee, engage, fight, disengage, and avoid damage.the counters to nanos are either impractical or ineffective. good nano pilots can avoid them easily.so i support you wrayeth, even if the masses won't. no one wants to lose their precious nanopwnmobiles i guess.. wuteva. i've trained up to fly nanopwnmobiles myself and i still wouldn't cry if ccp swung the nerf back right into my vagabonds face."
"i agree. nano's ruin the game. time for another nerf. with rigs, boosters, gang mods, and implants... nano's are insanely overpowered. add to that the new overload and heat... and please! stop the madness. it's not about tactics, counters, its about the clear and dominate overpower and imbalance speed tanks have over all over tanking.if you want a universe of speed, then go play need for speed. eve is far bigger, and the path its going down is a sad sad one."
"imagine if you could get 99% resistances by stacking enough modules. it would make you immune to damage. common sense says we should never reduce the window of vulnerability to less than maybe 10 percent, and the game elegantly provides for this. no combination of plates, resistance mods, ship bonuses or implants can effectively give you 90% or better resistances... and that's a good thing.now the problem with speed is the mods are additive and not factorial. in other words, there is no \"100 percent\" limit.because of this, speed is out of balance and frankly, is an exploit of the mechanics.the solution is not to nerf anything, but to rebalance. maybe there should be a recriprocal detriment of some critical factor  sig radius?  to compensate.the devs should rebalance  but not a full nerf!  the system."
"the long bio length was the only thing i had left in life. : the nerf has left me flaccid and depressed. i can no longer fit a small short story in my bio. my dog ran away and the icelandic mafia made my girlfriend wear concrete shoes and threw her into a convenient geothermic power plant."
"yes, please do. untill you do a great quote form me cant be listed. i really cant believe that the bio length can add much iof any strain to the server.if you really ant to combat lag, stop forcign peopel to make most contracts in jita."
"i love itanis"
"bio length, evemail length, and perhaps even chat message length all need to be lengthened dramatically. like, by a factor of 100.edit: why do i always forget the thumb?"
"they nerfed it for a reason. i would be okay for unnerfing it if it didn't cause more lag and/or was exploitable, but i'm willing to bet that it's no the case."
"yes. as long as it doesn't cause lag problems.windjammer"
"i approve this message."
"proposal for escalation to ccp:that the future storyline of eve be impacted by the outcome of factional warfare.we ask that the factional warfare mechanics be tied to the development of future storylines to reflect the victories and defeats won and lost by the players themselves on behalf of their faction militias. while rumor has it  and if a csm member could confirm this, much appreciated  that ccp initially had no plans for the outcome of factional warfare territory control to impact the writing of the faction storylines, we propose that these two elements should in fact be directly related.regular \"victory conditions\" could be set for the militias, and upon the achieving of those conditions, new storyline elements could be introduced based on the outcome and a new set of victory conditions implemented.on a basic level this could be \"once faction x controls y space, victory is won and z result enters the canon.\" then rp organizations could fight for a specific outcome  such as the freeing of minmatar slaves or the crippling of the gallente economy . this would lend additional weight to the daily battles of the faction militias and give a chance for eve players to have real control over where the storyline goes.any additional ideas are appreciated."
"i don't know how ccp plans their storyline and how much they stick to it as time goes by. the opening of factional warfare was billed to come some day, and finally has arrived. it would be nice to see the effects of player efforts in terms of space occupied on the storyline. immediate effects of recognition in news stories as the tides of battle change or push forward. not just an embedded reporter mentioning a battle here and there but a larger view of the conflict. also a response from npcs, empire officals, and others that are directly tied to the matter.at the current time amarr are having a bad time. it would be interesting to see minmatar beat their drums and maleatu shakor use it for as a rallying cry. it would also be good to see a response from the amarr. jamyl sarum surely has something to say.and finally there would be an greater consequence to the whole matter and something to shoot for. if a faction ever dominated the whole of another faction or even got close, it would deserve some notice and affect things. you can see right now the progress of militias through the wonderful work of verite rendition's factional warfare influence map. i would like to see ginger and company do the work they do best and make it for people who get their hands in factional warfare achieve something they can substantiate. everyone dreams of affecting the game. i believe that 0.0 empires are a result of this. people dream of putting up outposts and large invisible borders. giving the empire crowd a way to affect the game directly would be something special. and with it's roleplaying nature, giving people an outlet to achieve something through factional warfare that everyone can see would be great.funny how someone against territorialist expansion would want this, but it just makes sense."
"actually, there's nothing really wrong with the nighthawk's dps - but only if you are able to fit the classic caldari triple bcs. but, as everyone now, the nighthawk's pg is so stupidly inadequate that you end up fitting triple rcu instead..."
"anyone else annoyed that the csms are willing to address balance issues with mimnatar cap ships, even though they shot down the idea of looking at the nighthawk because they didn't want to get into the realm of ship balance issues? yeah... can't say i'm a fan of the whole csm thing thus far."
"all comands have this problem not needhawk only"
"minmatar fanboi-ism. unfortunately, certain elements of the csm seems to reflect the worst parts of the community - placing caldari in a lolpve role.that isn't to say that minmatar capitals and large projectiles don't deserve some help - although it must be noted that capitals and bs simply don't mesh well with the defining minmatar characteristics of speed and agility - but, in my opinion, the nighthawk's pg problem is so obvious that denying it is tantamount to sticking your head in the sand and shouting \"waaaaaaaaaaaaaaaahhhhh!\"it's not even as if any of the naysayers have offered any reasons why the pg shouldn't be boosted. unjustified opinions are worthless.since the precision heavy issue was voted through, i'm going to hold off on a proposal to switch the nighthawk's precision bonus to explosion velocity, since it'll make balance very difficult to judge."
"i kinda like this, would fix assault frigs maybe too."
"interesting idea. i like how you foresaw that criticism, too. certainly worth discussing.i assume that for all those distances you meant meters, not kilometers?"
"oops, good catch.i honestly dont think webber range penalty would be an appropriate downside. its full of holes itself.maybe a script that nerfed the ship's maximum velocity.hrmm this is kinda hard to explain...50% script: 129.25% webbed speed 167.5% max velocity37.5% script: 103% webbed speed 184.375% max velocity25% script: 76.375% webbed speed 201.25% max velocityi dunno.."
"sounds like quite a good idea to meor scripts that specifically target ab or mwd?rather than a do it all webber..."
"noticing a trend in the arguments in features and ideas.\"care bears\" tend to play the game, because they're interested in the story. they read the mission text. they follow the storyline lore. some have even been known to \"roleplay\" the differences between the races.\"pirates\" tend to play the game, because it's a psychology experiment. ccp has used the backdrop of \"futuristic spaceships\" in order to see just how vile and nasty people can be to each other if given half a chance. they like to flip rookie miners, bait can outside stations, and suicide gank anyone who doesn't set themselves up to be shot legally. they don't seem to like fighting each other, since it might end up resembling a \"fair fight\".is this game an mmo with a lot of pvp elements? or is this game pvp with a sad and sorry excuse for storyline, to give a setting to the bloodbath?how long is ccp going to cater to the pvp crowd? and when will the care bears receive some attention too?orca ... interbus ... skill queues... anything mentioned on the old and dust covered \"in development\" page...players have come and gone, when they saw the state of eve. not everyone is out for blood. but those are the only ones who receive any attention."
"nicely writen mate! 9/10"
"nicely put!!"
"so what do you want changed exactly? you have asked questions for discussion and smacked the pvp comunity, but other than that, could you expand a little bit more what you are looking for?"
"i was hoping that some of the care bears would crawl out from the woodwork and make some suggestions. perhaps in time they will.hmm where to start? put simply, more space stuff. every system has the same basic background, the never ending and ever distant cloud. if eve truly is a space game, then lets see some more space stuff. heck, id be glad to accidently fall into a black hole and wake up in a new clone. at least then i could say i did it. how about passing comets, possibly mineral rich but hard to keep up with, so miners can chew away for as long as their ab/mwd can keep them in range. might even give an excuse to make a t2 navitas. how about that ever-present cloud actually have a use, which more than one idea has been suggested for that as well. mining is a big pastime for care bear folks. there are tons of requests on features and ideas, asking for various boosts and modifications. the orca, fabled to be a high sec version of the rorqual. or at least, thats how the stories go. because it seems that ~someone~ mentioned it once upon a time in passing. and since then, theres been no mention whatsoever. going back to the comets, or the storms just something more for industrial types to do besides read a book and occasionally switch target rocks. jump clones, which seem to be both a means of expediting transport as well as an alternative to losing valuable implants during pvp, seem seriously neglected. from the stories told, it would seem that were being heavily restricted on their use where others are not. notice he jumps for breakfast, lunch, and dinner... at least. and that fact has not gone unnoticed. again, plenty of pages worth of requests for some modification. either shortening the timer, or adding new mechanics, to assist players who want to fight, but dont want to lose millions to a stray blast. skill training is another popular topic which hasnt received any attention. on the in development page, it mentions two options. either setting a single skill to follow the current, or having two skills train simultaneously at reduced rates. personally, i favor the former option. if a player should want to start cruiser i, and set cruiser ii, then he can walk away for an hour or so. if a player should start a level v, and set another level v, then they can take their vacation without trying to find wi-fi on the beach. interbus  an in-game delivery service. people constantly complain about jita, and the lag that is so fierce that some cant even manifest past the gate because their computers crash beforehand  like me . and yet, the same people who complain about the lag are the ones causing it, because they insist on buying and selling there. now imagine being able to buy something off market, and pay a little bit extra on top. and in a short time, say minutes to hours depending on distance, the item shows up in your local hanger. sure, you could say thats what courier contracts are for. but no one is willing to brave jita first off, to then continue 20+ jumps, having paid 200mil collateral, and receive 2k upon delivery. couriers arent working, and its time they either got fixed or just went away.this is just a few ideas that come to mind. im sure there are others floating around in there. and im sure there are many, many more that other players could suggest as well."
"for corps that take advantage of the blueprint locking facility we end up with page after page of redundant votes. can we please have the facility to remove these.thanks."
"sounds reasonable to me."
"signed - sometimes it's hard when a corp has billions in resources and dozens of offices to get shares back off one or two people in order to unlock bps or otherwise run the corp.i'd actually also like to see a stock market in eve tbh, but that's not covered by this vote"
"reason #234789 why you should allways as ceo maintain no less than 60% of all company shares"
"i bought my rkk shares fair and squareyou can purchase them back for a sum, as it would be totally wrong to just delete them, as people bought them fair and square.you know your rich enough, you can offer a price to those having rkk shares and make everyone happy by playing by the rules and buying back your shares"
"/signedannoying especially when bitter ex-ceos and whatnot hold a majority of the vote, preventing the corp from doing their funky groove thing."
"i support this as well, there should be a way to fix problems that were screwed up in the first few days of eve."
"this!"
"exploitable, unless a significant change is made to the process of creating shares.requiring a 95% vote in favor, need only be proceeded by a motion to increase the number of shares 20x. the motion to create shares only requires the approval of 50% of votes.the motion to create shares can be repeated until there is a 24 hour window where only a minority of opposition to the creation of shares is able to log on: ie 1 minute before a 24 hour downtime.suggesting that shares can be recalled by the arbitrary will of the corp removes any value that the shares might have. this proposal runs completely counter to concept of trading shares.perhaps alternative management methods might be structured so that corps can be managed without the need to propose votes for each action: ie allowing the corp to vote to give the ceo free  or limited  reign to pass sactionable actions without the need for seperate votes.the ability to revoke shares would be vastly over powered, as such i firmly oppose this proposal."
"there have been proposals earlier to change the way the stocks are working and are being traded. for example this one.i think, if the stock market and the stock handling is undergoing a change anyways, this specific feature could also be designed into the new stock mechanics without opening a new exploitable area. i think this problem is worth to be considered if the stock market is undergoing a change anyways."
"please for the love of god yes."
"every time i've said anything against xaen, i am immediately supplied with a thorough, well-thought-out thread describing the issues and how to fix them. i do not dare disagree with him now."
"i'm in 100% agreement."
"the pilot with +5 sec would have concord respond faster to save him/her from a suicide gank than the +1 sec pilot. the security status of the victim is what determines the speed of response, not the attacker.however beyond that i agree 'generally' with your statements that 'the cops' should defend everyone equally within their jurisdiction.something that may be worthwhile pursuing is tying in the ability to gain a 'deputy charter' from concord if your corporation has an average concord standing / security standing of something like +3 or higher  # is an example and would require a further look . this 'deputy charter' would allow the deputized corporation to actively seek pirates in low sec without the loss of security status. this might also be limited to a region of empire space for each charter."
"now that's an idea i'd like to support. put it up dex. call it bountyhunter"
"wow, i thought this one was dead and gone...my original idea was to have the standing both the victim and attacker, that would normally trigger concord, modify the time it takes for concord to show up... but always faster...positive standing on the victim or negative standing on the attacker would decrease the time for concord to show up... positive standing on an attacker or negative on the victim would have no effect.the idea being a \"criminal\"  lower standing  would already be on concords radar, so concord shows up faster... same idea in reverse with a positive concord standing.while concord may be watching the \"criminal\" they are not expecting them to get ganked, except perhaps by another criminal, thus they are going to react at their normal speed..."
"well, yes. gsc are pretty useful if you fly a navitas. i guess it's working as intended to \"protect\" newbs from theft while not being in corp or have hauler alts however, there could be a solution imho. for my understanding, things that you jetison  litteraly throw overboard in open waters  are not yours anymore. they are floating cargo. in fact, nobody should be flagged for taking stuff out of a jetcan.instead, we would just need a non secure giant container with 50.000m<U+FFFD> or a secure container, which one could actually open using hacking skills."
"not quite right:from marine salvagetechnically as the ship that is doing the jettisoning isn't actually in danger it is questionable whether any of the above really applies but the jetcan should really be called \"lagan/ligan\" as that is the closest name for what is actually happening."
" emphasis added say, are we using the same hulks? don't know about yours, but mine doesn't have a huge cargo bay. unless you think less than 2 cycles is huge?"
"expander ii, optimizer i, gsc, hsc... i can fit ~22k m3 in my hulk. you can't \"afk\", since you have to shovel into the cans once in a while, but i know it takes about 10min to top off."
"these are good values. but they don't say much about the cargohold of the hulk itself. i don't think it's good design if an item only has good values after you use every possible method to improve it."
"i can't possibly support a motion proposed by a character whose name means 'boys'"
"/bump"
"saw this in a post, liked it and decided to post it here.i'm sure many of us can say that we've all been blown up by another player at least once. sometimes that particular player is a little more than a match for a 1 on 1 confrontation and our chances of retribution are slim to none. imagine if you could trade the kill rights you have on him to a more... pvp-oriented individual who could exact the revenge for you?having the opportunity to trade kill rights gives merc corps even more juicy targets as now they can attack gankers in and around high-sec. also, the bounty hunting profession could finally get a firm foundation in this game. prices would be set by the individual who has kill rights via contracts or what have you and the person who accepted the contract would have one month to take out the target. once the target is destroyed, the merc or pirate hunter would receive a bounty  priced by the contract issuer  and that would be it.another idea could be that when the target is destroyed, they receive a little eve mail with a message from their original victim so they know it was them who hired a merc to kill 'em.thoughts? ideas? criticisms?"
"nice thought, suggested many times before. but this is the wrong forum!"
"doh! i shall repost."
"no offense mate, but if everybody will post his ideas here, it'll render this forum useless. this should remain for real issues to be taken to ccp, not 100.000 suggestions for new stuff."
"i recently had a friend comment  negatively  about the lack of personalisation of ships in eve.i would support logos on ships as well as the ship name mapped onto the side in a prominant area if it wasn't too hard.decals you could choose depending on ship hull would be nice, but hardly crucial  shark's teeth for a rax, coloured stripes on wings etc  that could be ignored if requested by the client but could also only be viewed from a certain distance from the model  so you won't get 100+ downloads instantly but spread out a little in jita, but only if you look at a ship up close .it would generate more emotional attachment to your ship if you spent ages on adjusting it to your liking  only to see it reduced to a wreck  but could also be used to generate a little more identity in eve  imagine an alliance squadron all with red stripes on their wings and another with blue, for example .full colour changes, i'd say no... we need hull colours to quickly identify ship types or else you'd end up with copper-coloured phobos or red-hulled incursus flying around  although scouts should have ship types on their overview already ."
"here's my idea:corp logos: only rendered when you look at the subject, or he flies very close to your ship. it's composed of roughly 64 different images in 3 layers, which takes 192 bits, or 24 bytes, of info to send.alliance logos: even easier than above.custom paint jobs: i don't mind if we only get 8 colors to choose from to paint each of our 2 areas of the ship  base and detail colors . this is 2 bytes, maybe 3, of information to send, since the wireframe and layout areas would be stored in the cache of eve.here's the big thing: make ship visuals able to be turned off in the escape screen, graphics tab. if you don't want the personalization, don't use it. heck, you can even make it unclicked by default.in summary, please implement this devs. with the new eye candy of trinity, there's no reason this shouldn't have been implemented sooner. bandwidth is higher and gpu/cpus process faster and more than they did 5 years ago  using moore's law .the player id is already sent as normally, and sometimes their portrait. this number can be exceedingly large  considering ccp never deletes their player database , so i don't see a problem here."
"and corp ceo's should be able to create a few logos in the corp creation/edit panel"
"amar battleship -3% laser grid usage /level ?"
"+1i've had people refer to the rcu2 as 'the amarr module' for a reason -- it's rather hard to fit many amarr ships -- even pure gank ships without slapping on a few of them.by the way, 425 iis have a higher base optimal range  and falloff!  than tachyon i"
"yes, but you don't have much choice about using them despite their horrendous grid usage, because heavy/mega beams lack optimal to be really viable for a sniper setup in any ship that doesn't have an optimal bonus.if mega beams ii had 8km more optimal, the issue would be relatively minor. as it is most amarr pilot wanting to have a reach equivalent to other sniping bs are focred to choose between losing 2 lows, which make them the hardest bs to fit, or leaving one or even 2 guns slots empty."
"great idea, awesome, fab, do it now, please. would be a great feature to have deployable player craft from carriers. perhaps this could finally be the niche for assualt frigates, ie the only class of ship deployable from a non mothership carrier. would be pretty cool if a carrier could deploy say 5 assault frigates in addition to normal carrier drone / fighter capabilities."
"tbqh they could just balance capital boost implants with -cycle time as well as +boost amount, it doesn't take much neuting to completely shut down a capital shield tank."
"is the template format publicly available? if not, why isn't it? it would surely help the csm if people would present their issues using the template from the get-go."
"no need to mail me regarding alternate positions- count me in!i was wondering how the submission templates work for issues that just make the 7 day requirement on the day of the meeting? can a representative bring up an issue in a meeting without having to submit the template  i assume this right is still available as per csm document . do you have a 'any other business' section for meetings, as is usual for formal meets?take care,bruce hansen"
"what \"right\" is this you speak of? i can only see the csm document speak of the right for elected representatives top 9 , not alternatives, who aren't, from what i gather from the discussion in iceland, representatives. from what i understood, it's just a matter of the council being able to call in alternatives from the total pool of those who ran. so if nobody from the top 4 of non-elected members can't make it, we can go down to the list, as long as we have contacted them in advance, saying they are liable to being called in, should it be needed."
"interesting post, let me answer your questions  using the csm document you refer to ;all representatives have equal right to raise topics during csm meetingsa 5% voter support is however not required for a representative to bring up a topic to the council.now, it seems you agree with me here;i can only see the csm document speak of the right for elected representativesi was wondering what your point was?take care,bruce hansen"
"maybe you are discussing another issue, being privy to information we have yet to see, that alternatives, when present for a csm meeting, aren't considered representatives for issue raising purposes?the csm document is a little unclear there;the recommended guideline for meetings is at least once per week, with a minimum of nine representatives present.a meeting is not considered valid unless seven council members in any combination of alternatives and representatives are present.in addition to topics brought up by the representatives themselves, issues marked for resolution are considered by the csm for determination on whether or not they should be brought before the ccp council. after each csm memberpresents their opinion to support or disprove a motion, the matter is brought to vote; a majority rule passes the issue for escalation. it would seem to imply that representatives and alternates are different, but when at a csm meeting are both members  so the last part of the csm document above applies to representatives and alternates equally, discussion/voting issues . since we have yet to see the minutes from the meeting in iceland, is it your understanding that representatives can bring up issues in a csm meeting  without submitting a template etc , but not alternates?this would make sense.take care,bruce hansen"
"no. it's my understanding that alternates does not have the right to submitting an issue. i don't see why they should have, neither does the document seem to suggest it. there are quite a few issues and things that would have to be taken care off, should that it be possible to alternates to raise issues. first of all, being an alternate does not count for a term.second, you will need to submit a submission template like everybody else.third, it will require that you are at the meeting where it's being discussed, as you would need to chair the issue as per our agreement that the owner of the issue chairs the discussion.but because the alternate position is not an actual membership of the council other than when a alternate is called in for a meeting.i personally think that making this difference between representatives and alternates is a can of worms and to some degree a bit respectless towards the alternates. but we need to be 7 people at a meeting, so we need alternatives."
"okay, so you do agree that only representatives can raise issues at csm meetings, but not alternates? this is what i was saying! the alternate gets full discussion/voting rights at a csm meeting they are present at on issues on the agenda or raised during the meeting.or are you saying that only representatives can submit a template etc?  which i agree is the case, but not what i was aksing .am i right in saying that you disagree that issues can be raised during a meeting  by representatives  without being submitted on a template etc?how about the 'any other business' section of a meeting- is there currently one?take care,bruce hansen"
"don't you and the rest of the csm have somebody you can ask at ccp to determine what the holdup is? i mean......csm meetings 4 and 5 have been over for a long time now. if there was a problem, ccp has had a lot of time to communicate with you. it's also been awhile since you were in iceland, though the bulk of that information may slow down the release process. just speculation on that last. there's not much to work with from our perspective.regards,windjammer"
"hi all.first i must apologize for the lack of communications. that can be written on me. you see, i ran off to vacation - and i don't have an internet connection in the tent i'm sleeping in . i know, crude tech-tent... i should think about upgrading.i did barge into a place that does have a connection and have now put things into motion so the minutes should be up later today or early tomorrow.the things discussed in the meetings between the csm and ccp are in the pipelines as discussed that weekend - it was just the minutes that were stranded on our end."
"just out of interest, don't you guys have people that can cover your delegated tasks while you're away on vacation? seriously though, it's good to hear that the meeting minutes will be available to read in the very near future."
"itt starry-eyed eurotrash attempt to champion the supposed merits of an inherently flawed and demonstratably impractical social system"
"that has got to be the most farcical set of minutes for a meeting that i have ever read.20 minutes of discussing eve and 4 hours of bickering, futile willy-waving, turgid and tedious arguments on semantics and a thrilling debate on whether abstaining counts as a yes, a no or even a vote at all.and it took them 3 meetings to get to that point.i think ccp might need to order a lot of beer for themselves when the iceland meeting happens because if that set of minutes is anything to go by it'll take them 3 days to finalise the vote on what colour the name badges will be.... red / blue / if a name badge is green is it really a name badge at all?you couldn't make it up"
"support"
"i'm angry arachnids and i support this message."
"/signed."
"i'd love to see a complete shift for the naglfar to have 3 turrets"
"i'm going to have to support. pure minmatar spec who never bothered to train cap skills because ours were so poor."
"wrong. in the vast majority of supercap take downs the supercap in question is bumped and surrounded and thus cannot move due to being stuck.smartbombs are why citadel torps do very poorly, same reason why fighters do so poorly as well.its a complex issue though, because there really isn't all that many useful modules to fit on supercaps if smartbombs were to become useless."
"i support this... its stupid that you can shoot a super cap for 10 minz and do less damage than a bs at the same time. dreads are meant to do kill caps..."
"smartbombs would still have utility as anti-ship and anti-fighter measures, but this proposal is limited to their effects on citadel torpedoes. i'm not even suggesting a blanket immunity--though i wouldn't necessarily object to that--just some sort of chance for better/any survivability."
"dreads are meant to kill structures. i dont remember anything anywhere saying a dread was supposed to take down another capital  just coincidentally its good at it . i posted in a f&id forum thread about this: missiles do massive damage to everything without any real penalty. just the fact that you cant hit a titan is of little consequence. bump it, do other stuff, whatever. the day my blasters/rails stop doing glancing blows against a pos tower that doesnt move for only 1k damage while my phoenix counterpart does 14k, then you can talk about it. a boost to something like explosion velocity isnt a bad idea, but demanding that the dread with the biggest tank and cap-free damage should get an immunity bonus to something basic is silly. try staggering your missile volleys or taking out the offending smartbombing ship first."
"i believe the point is the dread pilot is trying to kill the offending smartbombing ship.as for missiles doing massive damage without real penalty--there's a delayed to-hit time  which can be very significant for citadels!  and if the target is moving above a specific speed they are immune to damage even if hit. for light missiles, this is very fast. for citadels...well, if you're moving at all you're going to get mitigated damage.this isn't a discussion on guns vs missiles; they both have their drawbacks and strengths. at the moment, however, the citadel missile system is useless against stationary/slow targets who have smartbombs equipped. guns cannot be stopped/negated in a similar fashion."
"in the current 0.0 sovereignty system, perhaps, but ccp will be implementing more and more features that are only accessible to smaller ships from here on out. i think that a smaller logistics role is something desirable, to be honest.t2 logistics bcan interesting idea, but my problem with it is that heavily tanked logistics bcs would either be instantly primaried in any large engagement and too powerful in smaller roaming gangs, especially if you used 2 working together. start up a topic on it and we can discuss the various pros and cons on it."
"let's roll !"
"very annoying...."
"yes this option would be very nice to have."
"yes please."
"100% support"
"/signed"
"i love eve, i used cc for abit then went to gtc's, manly 30 days. but since the change to only 60 days my eve playing has gone downhill. im losing isk, therefore i cant buy gtc's, and since i cant buy gtc's i can't play and since i cant play i aint having fun so i quit eve and do other things. i have 3 accounts, gonna have to sell one, maybe the the other and go to one account.but i dont want to do that because i enjoy eve. so because of these stupid 60 days ccp will lose alot of low income and short term players. nice going ccp because you want to make more money you plan to sacrifice your total amount of people who play. nice going...."
"33% price increase is a very bad idea and is only ****ing off players..../signed"
"i support this : ps. chribba vi <U+FFFD>lskar dig ! : "
"yes for a capital mining laser...  maybe even t2??  ... and 4 slots in the rorqual, being able to crunch some ore while chewing it up... keeps the pilot busy..."
"absolutely. finally, chribba's veldnaught will become an ore eating machine of death!  or something like that... "
"i support it with the caveat that so fitted it would be allowed into high sec."
"full support because i lub it. : "
"issue passed the csm vote 6-3 so its going on the next agenda with ccp where we'll be asking for this to be implemented with the all corps in alliance joining fw militia need to be on the same side option.this is a vital issue for rp alliances in particular - and its also a very important principle to me personally that players should not be excluded from new game content because of previously encouraged organizational development choices  alliance establishment .arguing that players should abandon long-term established player alliances with history and friendships and long camaraderie to take part in new game content is something i consider is simply wrong."
"fw was released by ccp as a way for people who weren't familiar with pvp to gain experience with pvp without having to enter pvp full bore. they described fw as a sort of introductory pvp.it is impossible to see how fw can fulfill this promise and vision if large alliances are pounding around in fw with all their amassed pvp experience, numbers and already established lines of communication. they will simply absorb fw and dominate it.the attempt by ccp to use fw to get people out of high sec and into the pvp arena will fail and at best it will become nothing but a recruitment gimick for the large alliances. \"want to enjoy fw? join the big alliance or die fast.\"keeping large alliances out of fw is not an attempt to deny game content to those in large alliances. it is an attempt to familiarize people with pvp so that they transition to low sec and 0.0 and join in the fun that large alliances already enjoy. as such alliances should welcome the current situation as it is designed to alleviate one of the most persistent complaints from dwellers of 0.0, i.e. not enough people in 0.0.windjammer"
"proposal: csm ask ccp when these two drone bugs are scheduled to be fixed and ask if they can be fixed sooner rather than later.currently drones have two big bugs. both bugs reduce firepower from drones and they can even occur simultaneously which really makes things interesting. i, and others, have filed petitions and been told to file bug reports. we've filed bug reports and been told the bugs have been attached to a defect tracking. we're given no information on what that effectively means or when the bugs are likely to be fixed. these bugs have been out at least since the release of trinity and perhaps before, though my personal belief is that one of them was a result of trinity.bug one: drones switching targets independent of instruction and/or against instruction. this happens randomly and can involve all drones at once or just some of the drones. this is especially bothersome when using sentries as you can't always tell immediately if only some of the drones have switched target if you don't have the target they've switched to target locked.bug two: drones clumping together. free flying drones have a tendency to pair up and fly together. frequently this results in one pair that are flying so close together  clumped , they interfere with each others flight. similar to a couple of ships bumping each other while trying to get into warp. the clumped pair of drones lag far behind the other three drones when moving to a target or when returning to the ship which launched them. in addition to reducing firepower this sometimes causes the loss of one or both of the clumped pair if the drones have come under enemy fire.these two problems affect all drone users and particularly the drone boats. i'm sure drone users would consider fixing the two bugs to be a great improvement to eve.best regards,windjammer"
"anything that make drones work as intended is good."
"as drones are my best weapon  not saying much as i am an industrialist  i vote aye!!!!"
"i am suffering from the second bug as well, so supported."
"supported."
"sorry but i have to disagree, i believe alliance shouldn't be allowed to join fw and here are my reasons:1- alliances will dominate fw if they were allowed they have more isk and more experience than any of the fw participants. some of you will say that this way ccp is alienating a large number of eve players i say ccp would alienate even more players by allowing alliances to join just look at how many players are in the caldari militia they are more than any existing alliance do you want to lose them ?2-for those of you who fear alliances would ruin fw i don't believe this will happen so far most alliances have acted responsibly and avoided getting involved in factional warfare to the extent of ruining it  although showing support for the militias by providing ships and modules and pvp experience is something that is very welcomed . besides i doubt ccp would let alliances ruin their product.3-don't most alliance members have alts already in militias so whats the problem 4-as for rp alliances i can only say i understand your suffering and i sympathize with you but the only thing i can say is this is eve adapt or die. 5-i haven't been in an 0.0 alliances but i have tried once taking down a pos and i have to agree if that is how 0.0 warfare is it must be really boring but that is no reason for alliances to join fw eve is a big game and its all about choices and the way i see it alliance have to make a choice you either stay in 0.0 space because that is what you like and demand ccp fix it as it is your right, or leave 0.0 break the alliance and join fw.anyway that is just my personal opinion on the subject and why i choose not to support this notion."
"no. alliances should be kept out of factional warfare."
"well csm voted 6-3 for the alliance corps in faction warfare militias fix to be implemented with as much urgency as we can manage. i personally feel its very important and its fortunate for the rp community we got 3 rp friendly csm's in the mix : "
"does that mean the request to allow alliances into fw is to presented to ccp or that it already has been? remember, we still don't have the csm meeting minutes from csm meetings 4 and 5.if it's already been presented to ccp, what was their response?windjammer"
"i wholeheartedly agree with ccp's already existing policy on the issue. i mean honestly alliances are there own faction in themselves. are you spending your time supporting your alliance's goals and defending it's space or out fighting faction warfare and leaving the homefront undefended ... i really dont see these 2 goals coexisting. if even 50% of an alliance military force is off playing faction warfare when an invasion begins, how will that leave the state of the alliance. i could see this used to overthrow some powerblocs with the right intel. question shjouldn't be can alliance members join fw, many have moved whole corps out of major alliances already to pursue fw, but rather should our alliance join fw would you open your alliance to invasion. all in all, i think the dev's took care of the issue for us honestly."
"in iceland we asked what the problem was with alliances and fw and got told the technical details - ie that it was entirely possible for alliance corps to remain in their alliances and still join militias. ccp told us they were still deciding whether or not it was good idea to allow this function. hence now we'll be re-submitting the issue and saying \"yes we think its a good idea please do it\"."
"sooo........you guys discussed issues with ccp in iceland that were not on the agenda prior to going to iceland?windjammer"
"in my opinion this is a perfect opportunity to elevate the service to to the level it should be at. they got voip support in, made it free, now make it functional for serious use. in this case though your 90% argument sure stands. :  it's almost there, just needs to be dragged across the finish line."
"eve voice works good for me. since it runs on a separate network, server lag doesnt affect it so even in the middle of a fight, the commands are easy to hear.everybody underestimated how useful it would be except ccp and a few other people. if they would have listened to their player base, we would not have it today."
"i am a big fan of eve voice. it has really made voice comms for fw much easier than vent/ts ever was/could be imho. however the lack of an external client, or more specifically the inablity to use it from the character login screen makes it very hard to plan a proper logon trap....errrrfly safe!"
"am intending to bring this one up next week."
"something else that needs to be address and in the case that i missed the topic somewhere else... miltia members should not be allowed to wardeck other militia members of the same militia... it should be some sort of crime against the faction/militia. it causes way to many problems.....now memebers not of the militia wanting to wardec memebers of the militia is another story on to its self and if that happens they should become enemies of that faction and militia..and sorry if this is posted in the wrong forums area."
"i disagree with that one. too exploitable. a militia is not an alliance and doesn't function the same way where wardecs are concerned. i can definitely see reasons why 2 corporations within the same militia might want to wardec each other."
"amen, its the best thing i have heard in a wile"
"well constructed arguments."
"agreed"
"here, here"
"agreed."
"can i get an amen?"
"here here"
"there are more issues.zerging is a massive issue quite frankly and needs to have it's own discussion right there.in general this is agreement though."
"totally agree"
"hear hear halada.ccp listen to this man"
"nuff said!"
"tbh most of the carrier changes where fine, it was too easy to haul stuff from one side to the galaxie to another.a jf isnt so big but with the support of carriers or ms a jf can be a good addition for your logistics department. also its easy to anchor some small tower en route to your destination, when you are do it on a regular base.the biggest problem in .0 isnt the game mechanics its the player base with 10 thousands of ppl having nappend each other there cant be any movment in the big picture of .0 space. pos warfare would be fine when ppl wouldnt have decided that they want to minimize risk by napping as much ppl as possible.so basicly what ppl need to realize is that there isnt any mmo where you can have a 500 vs 500 in real time when you dont wanna play some text adventure.most problems you mention have an easy solution at hand. so basicly what you are doin here is doin some carebear whinage about topics that have been beaten to death already."
"you smell of inexperience. i'd like you to link me to well together put threads discussing some of these issues? eve-search didn't turn up anything recent. you've obviously never had to endure logistics nor has spent 4.5bil on a ship that has no way of protecting itself through dangerous 0.0 space. you can't setup towers in enemy space and yet more often than not you need to go through it in far away systems.this leave the use of cyno alts only. and unlike the super cool covert cynos, you'll either have to be very lucky or do your runs at ridiculous hours to rish your jf not getting caught. once you jump you need at least a good 5-7 minutes for cap to recharge before jumping out again... you'll get probed or need to war out every 14 sec... give me an \"easy\" solution to the above problem and other issues mentioned rather than call me a carebear whiner, or be forever silent and do us all a favor."
"i have to admit, i agree with 100% of the ideas posted here. you win a cookie."
"when i got into mining, halada's mining guide quickly became dog-eared and worn. when i got into hulk's i followed his fittings and mined in null space, the hulk tanking  still have my gisti a small booster sitting in a hanger somewhere  and 2nd acct hauling. just as i started looking at carriers to haul my mins to market, along came the nerf. this was about the time or there after that nos got nerfed and torps range got nerfed. i kinda gave up on planning anything long range because now i don't really trust ccp to not make far reaching changes that will trash what ever i am working towards.having said all this i have to whole heartedly aggree with halada. without the industrialist, the pvp'ers and sovereign holding alliances are screwed. if you think not, next time you are in 00 space and open the market screen and imagine if nothing was there. or, when you cherry pick the rat loot and go to sell it, imagine those nice 100mwd that sell for 500k being worth zero. then imagine having to haul all your ships and mods in yourself. starting to get the picture?while ccp seems to value the pvp'er overmuch, understand that allowing the hauling/industrialist access to improved gear makes pvp'ing for the pvp'er that much easier. so un-nerf the carrier's hauling ability.drone regions need some attention as halada points out. i can understand ccp's initial idea of getting great mins from drone drops which was to get peeps out to the drone regions. too bad they did not use this reward idea with lvl 5 missions.jump freighters was a good idea but not at the expense of nerfing carriers. the 4.5 billion price tag effectively keeps it out of the reach of most pilots and downgrading carriers to promote it just seems wrong somehow. so far i did not see dreadnoughts take a giant nerf when titans came out. so why should carriers be munched on because jump freighters became available?"
"good well thought out post."
"splendid post, i agree"
"maybe if you had a support gang rather than just a cyno alt in system you wouldn't feel so nekkid? pretty sure it was intended to be a team activity rather than a dual-boxed one.the rest of what you said is fine."
"sometimes you cant even get 5 people to help with the haul op, so you're forced to do it solo.usually its because everyone else is too busy taking down pos-es with their dreads, and probably talking on ts to pass the time."
"then your jump freighter deserves to get plastered across an asteroid belt. i'm not sure how your corp or alliance being willing to lol away a couple billion in assets is a counter argument.don't get me wrong, they need some love on the design end but if you're alone in a system with just your cyno alt, you're doing it wrong from top to bottom."
"well was raised to the csm discussion but failed to get enough votes to be escalated. discussion can be seen from the chat herewell i tried : "
"this is an excellent idea, given they are in the game already flying those ships."
"agreed. boosting the usage of the other two \"rare\" moon minerals would go a long way to balancing out materials."
"excellent presented"
"a difficulty: overall value of loot will decrease over time. by eliminating unnamed t1 loot  which is frequently melted down by mission runners rather than sold whole , and substituting a roughly equivalent value of named t1 loot, you will slowly drive down the value of named t1 loot as it becomes more common. that has upsides too of course  making named t1 mods more widely available, and bringing their prices down , but it will over time decrease the overall rewards of missioning.that said, i still think this is a good idea."
"although \"fun\" is relative and varies from individual to individual i personally like these ideas and would love to see them implemented."
"there are additional strategies that can be used to defeat npcs - energy neutralizers, for example. in addition, i think that it would be a good thing for a few missions to be very difficult to solo, as it would encourage a bit more cooperation  now that the lofty scam is no more .re-read my proposal - named t1 loot would make up for the lack of unnamed t1 loot, so this is a non-issue.i disagree, requiring another modules is almost exactly what pveers need. it brings missions a little bit closer to pvp and also makes missions a bit less of a snooze-fest as well. in addition, you don't actually need the module either, it just hurts your bottom line not to have it. deciding to sacrifice that slot for extra profit or leave it for extra tracking/damage/tanking ability should be a decision mission runners have to make, because right now their only real decisions are which hardeners to fit based on the npcs they're encountering.obviously - my proposal suggests that there would have to be some form of limit to keep missions from having 80 frigates or 10 battleships.interesting suggestion, though a bit outside the scope of my ideas. perhaps you should propose something to that effect."
"very nice. : "
"as i've posted a couple of times about varying mission content, i am taking the next step and actually working on some mission outlines with a variety of different tasks and 'win' conditions than currently exist. unfortunately work is currently being a female dog, so it's not as fast as it could be. have tomorrow night to kill in a hotel room with no internet & no company though... that might help : "
"a comment to your pro and cons:-more viable t1 market  less competition from missions i don't see why someone would buy t1 items when there are better named items in market ad a practically equivalent price. i dubt t1 market will get better. the only exception are the items that don't normally drop from rats and already sell;-fewer non-mining sources of mineralsgranted.-faster mission looting timesnot really, you salvage while looting. more empty wrecks don't change the time spent salvaging.-increased mission profitsnot unless the quantity of named items is increased, but then the named item prices will drop and the t1 market will still suffer even more from named item competition.-potentially labor-intensive to implement  i.e., lots of time making changes to each mission most rats share loot tables i think, so it will not require to change all the missions, only the lot tables.note that the current lot mix is more like 75-90% crap t1, 24-9% crap named items, 1% high end named equipment. i routinely buy crap named items for refining and they sell for less than mineral content."
"but it will not change unless a lot of other things are changed. how often you use a t1 set up?getting the items at a higher price form manufacturers will not make t1 gear more used."
"1. fewer npcs, better npcssupportedno more unnamed t1 lootneed a lot of work to be implemented, it will have very far ranging secondary effects.mission leaders that retreat unless scrambledtentative support. maybe only for level 3 or more missions.more dynamic npc spawns/supported."
"i fully support removing agent quality and making the level of reward a function of social skills and your standing towards that agent."
"was successfully voted through the csm so its going to be on the next formal agenda for discussions with ccp.  and tbh i'd love to have a second run at that nighthawk vote if somebody can find a way to address the issue again ."
"totally supported.show some pvp love for the caldari ccp"
"we did"
"talk about your tight votes >_>"
"agrees! and there should be a confirmation-dialog with name that will be petioned"
"no support for t2 ship insurance.t2 ships are elite ships... and thus expencive to lose them. fly t1 if you want to lose less.edit: i acctually feel that insurance should be removed from the game.it instantly removes the huge suicide problem carebears have.+ you can t fix t2 ship insurance anyways... as those ships are mostly sold for alot more than their build cost.so lets see. i build a vaga for 25mil. sell it for a 100. so in other words you should be able to insure it for 100mil or so ?what would happen if that was possible? id build a vaga for 25mil. sell it to my alt for 10 bil isk. as insurance is taken from build cost. i pay like 10 mil for 10 bil coverage. i go and get killed in that ship... netting me just under 10 bil proffit.id say... remove insurance at all from t2 ships  the one you get atm is pointless anyways :p "
"not supported.not supported.not supported.enough already. damn.where is friggin thumbs down already."
"this."
"nerf nanos or boost webber ranges or imporove turret tracking and explosion velocity of heavy missiles i don't care as long as this nano craze is tuned down a bit.or make each race have a specialized ship for catching nanos.as far as i can see nanos might be the only solution to avoid capital hot drops and bubbles in 0.0 but eve is not 0.0 only and in low sec and empire, nanos are ruining the game. we are not talking about a nano ship versus a blob we are talking about a nano ship versus another ship or a group of nano ships versus a similar group of non nano ships and whats worse is even if the non nano ships have the means to do damage the nano ships can simply run away.i support this notion."
"sorry but not supporting this."
"have to agree on the tracking thing for turrets on the other hand what boost you need for your webs when a rapier can web between 50km and 245km"
"do you people actually know anything about game mechanics?look up the explosion velocity on cruise and heavy missile sometimes.even a precision cruise fired from a golem  which has an explosion velocity bonus  and explosion velocity rigs will not do any significent damage to nano ships. work out the explosion velocity on it.precision heavy missiles are actually worse than precision cruise!the only thing that even has a chance is precision light missiles, and that's not much of a chance."
"new midslot module:missile mwd launcher. creates a mwd field around launchers giving a massive boost to their speed at launch. available in small, medium and large sizes. affects capacitor the same as a mwd, with the same cpu and grid requirements.alternatively  or additionally : change nanofibers and overdrives to be ship-size specific, with smaller ships gaining a larger bonus to speed or weight reduction.keep the sandbox, keep the flexibility."
"sorry i don't fly minmatar ships and tbh i don't think i am interested to fly them for a while. does this mean i am screwed in eve"
"cyno jammers. game play. its not about immunity its about options. and forcing people to auto-die to superior numbers 100% of the time is simply not good play and will do nothing for the future health and success of eve online. many people have told you how to kill nano ships in this and other threads. but since you are arguing from the fixed territorial debate actually \"killing\" these ships is irrelevant to you. they can't threaten your infrastructure. why are you worried? and if its just that you want more kill mails to be harvested by your overwhelming defense trap then i'm not going to be sympathetic. skirmish warfare is important for eve and the game begins to die when larger forces automatically kill smaller forces. they have a near 100% effective defense on their fixed assets. that isn't the same as automatically killing everything any other player might bring on a roving patrol. if the opposition ops to skirmish its going to do well against an enemy in a fixed defensive line. thats warfare and its good that eve represents this. no capital support. only the defender has that - remember those cyno jammer things right?"
"sometimes i wonder how you got in that 'chair'. first of all, superior numbers is just that, superior. second, obtaining numbers is an out-of-game task. in other words, there's no mod or bonus that will increase player numbers... and why do numbers play a role to kill shield/armor tanks more efficiently, yet speed tanks are far superior against numbers?you have a mindset about the little nano guy who wants to solo own a dozen ships and be immune to dying. sorry, but i think you are a hypocrite. you want something for one side, but yet are opposed to the changes to your side. you say its out tactics that need adapting, when there should be a nerf to your tactics, because you shouldn't be flying around freely among a dozen hostile ships. period. if you want to solo roam, then go against solo ships... adapt your play style, why should we all adapt ours?the future of eve is not speed and immunities to nanoweenies. once you see that, you'll realize the direction this game should not be heading. if we all have to fly nano's or nano counters, then that is a far more unhealthy environment than the latter. no, they game is dying when larger forces can't kill a single immune nano ship. if you claim they don't threaten any infrastructure, then once again you are naive. nano's threaten a lot! for the sole fact they can pick and choose targets at will. the problem with that is when you do bring a force, they can't be caught. thus, its a problem. they have far too much freedom of gameplay, while 95% of all other ships have to deal with the same circumstances. once again jade, you solve nothing but manage to spin words and scenarios that are far fetched and lack luster at best. why are nano's ships the most used pvp ship in all of eve? is it because the rest of eve is too stupid to counter them? or, is it because they are simply overpowered? if you value your seat, i hope to god you don't call the rest of eve stupid. you know damn well the only ones for nano's are the bulks of nanoweenies already flying them. i guess the rest of eve just isn't skilled or smart enough to kill them. oh great one."
"by actually having an opinion based on fact, experience and general non-failure. unlike you. so that should mean that in a game, it should simply come down to the fact you can call your friends? join a super large block of players to feel safe from your own failures? nano is fine, people who fail are not fine, plenty of tactics, you must use your brain and not expect to be able to undock 400 of your closest friends just because 10 or so nano's come to your home system, blow up your isk making ravens, pee on your door step and take off because you have brought 150 drakes, 50 caracals, 50 blackbirds, 2 rapiers, and a ton of t1 frigates."
"and you are basing that off facts? rofl. you have more to learn if you think nano's are balanced in line with other tanks. there's a reason why the majority fly nano's... cuz they are overpowered and easily used to engage and/or run at will. no other ship has that tactic along with the best tank in the game. i suggest you re-examine yourself before another unrealistic post. your idea of eve is flawed greatly... its kinda like you don't even play."
"people fly nano's because they are prepared to invest their skillpoints, isk, fittings and general play skill against superior numbers of inferior opponents with cookie-cutter setups is the harsh truth of it. if you are comparing nano-ships with non-nano-ships as two different grades of \"tank\" you are completely missing the point. a nano-ship is akin to a historical horse-archer. very well trained, very well equipped, the horse-archer is a supreme skirmish combatant that is literally unkillable by inexperienced levies standing in a shield line or holding makeshift pipes and desperately wanting to return to their village before the harvest is in. is this balanced? well sure, since a nano-ship costs more than a tech2 fitted battleship at the entry level and dies like any other target if its held into the press and slaughtered. but thats not the kind of \"balance\" you mean is it? what you'd like is for the auto-blob to always win by pure weight of numbers and whoever has the biggest talentless levy gets to hold the field. real warfare isn't like that historically, in the present day, or at any time in history outside of the appalling fiascos of ww1 france. and see while a guy like you is whinging on the forums about \"how unfair it is\" that nanos get to play a skirmish role on the eve battlefield. i've been there, done it, got the teashirt, played nano's, played against nano's. i've developed particular strategies to use and oppose these things and played a part in some excellent battles involving nano-elements on our and the opposition side. case in point. couple of months ago we  sf  deployed alongside cry havoc in a pos takedown / capital ship bait operation. the plan was that we'd bait the enemy with a few remote repping carriers, have our element  sf provided a large number of rr battleships for anti cap work  engage the cap fleet the bad guys brought - then cry havoc would drop the hammer with interdictors and dreadnaughts.  all this danger close at an enemy deathstar pos . so the plan rolled out and it started fantastically - we got the bait down right and the enemy dropped their capital fleet into our midst and we got busy killing. killboards show i think we downed 8/9 caps and completed routed the enemy. then pandemic legion turned up as a third force with a nano-gang and came in attacking both sides and skirmishing like absolute pros. for the next 60 minutes we had a fascinating game of cat and mouse as the war ideologies clashed. pandemic were obviously completely outgunned. we had around 30 rr battleships with around 15 cap ships. but we were still taking losses. every time somebody broke ranks, warped to the wrong point, drifted out of rr range they died. we shot down some pandemic ships sure, but the battle continued and it was the classic confrontation of a heavy shield line vs elite irregular skirmishers. and i tell you what, some people on our side still cursed \"damn nanos\" but the commanders just watched a team of professional horse-archers deploying bait and lure, traps with interdictor bubbles, using their own discipline to punish all lapses on ours. and it was a masterclass in the form seeing it from the other end for a change and i feel privileged to play the same game as some of those skilled pilots and battlefield tacticians we faced.result? we \"won\" of course, meaning we held the field and accomplished our objectives. but they \"won\" in terms of casualties and kills inflicted and pure \"fun\" had by all."
"you ask how i won this chair pithecanthropus?i'm guessing its because i've got experience and love for this game in spades and know more sides of eve conflict that you are capable of understanding with your penchant for complaint at every least upset and your patent inability to understand that variety is the spice of life and eve and that not everybody plays this glorious political space battle simulator to stand in neat rows at the stargates with the other drones. some of us are born to shine and stand out from the crowd and we like our 200m isk hacs that let us fight 10 to 1 odds and play on skill and talent and inspired leadership rather than simply watching the lag bombs and mindlessly clicking f1-f8 while talking smack on the forums.you are very free to \"roleplay\" a barely trained militiaman holding a pike and wetting himself at the sound of our hooves pithecanthropus. me, i'll take the horse-archer role every day and enjoy shooting you in the throat from the gallop while your comrades look on with terror and disbelief and break and run like the dogs they are."
"horse archers had their day ruined by rain. doesn't seem to rain here much.in closing, you're a tremendous idiot."
"congrats on your page os wishy-washy text, but this is all i read... and i'm still laughing at it. like you, oh great one, know exactly why people fly nanos. claiming \"the harsh truth\", when in reality nano's are the cookie cutter standard of pvp. i recommend you hit the reset button on your eve game and try again.and it is valid to compare speedtank, armor tank, and shield tank... as they all exist for one purpose... absorb damage. oh oops, wait... speedtanks do more. i forget that a lot."
"in context i guess rain = lag. since both can kill archers. and yet i can debate on the internet without puerile name-calling. funny that."
"wow... long sentence, full of colorful yet meaningless words... not to mention flat out assumptions, a selfish ego trip, and lack of eve knowledge.  1  i've played this game longer than you.  2  that 2003.06.01 doesn't make you worthy of anything if you have a selfish agenda and can't accept the greater good for eve if it doesn't follow your personal path.  3  your use of words is a travesty to come from the mouth of someone in your position.so the rest of eve is just dull in your little world. sad day to hear that from a csm.that's exactly why nanos are overpowered. you can fight 10 to 1 and still have near zero risk, the best tank, the best evade option, the premier interceptor  in a cruiser?  and ride off waiting for other's to copy your overpowered tactic and turn this game into the most unhealthy form of muppets and their cookie cutter nano ships. thereby eliminating 95% of other ships to be effective in your world of speed. yes! that's the eve i want! great, thanks for calling anyone else without a nano pretty much a dweeb. you should really chose your words more wisely, you only dig yourself a grave for your selfish needs.great, a totally irrelevant metaphor. once again proving you have one agenda, and that is to not lose your sweet sweet sound of uber overpowered nano freedom.btw... a nerf to nanos wouldn't kill the nano. maybe you shouldn't force your nano eve on everyone and consider how the new nano could adapt. but, why should you adapt? you're the almighty great one."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"yeah longer bio length would be nice!maybe they could keep the current bio length, and then have a button if you want to read the full bio. so the current was like a teaser or preview to the full bio."
"not supporting this becasue bio has a lesser role in game. i see no point having a few thousand people fill their bios to maximum and adding a little bit more work for the servers, internets."
"supporting this. the bio definitely needs restoring to its former glory at least."
"it would be nice, but unfortunately ccp have consistently shown that they can talk the talk but can't walk the walk in this regard."
"very important issue this. and well rodj, lets keep our figures crossed we can get this through the csm and presented to ccp next time around. they have asked us for \"vision\" issues and this is definitely in the category. why put up with a single static plotline when we can tell ccp to hire some more storyline people to cover the bases on multiple outcomes based on dynamic player conflict. i'm for this 100%."
"i'm sorry, but i'm with rodj on this one as well. not having much hope myself..."
"just like to point out one more time here that not only did this issue have advocates on the csm, its had some passionate ones who got outvoted last time. try it again and now the time crunch for discussions prior to iceland is sorted we'll give it a proper go and as much attention as we need. i'm still very much convinced this is a serious problem. no way on earth the tech2 version of the ferox should have less grid than the tech1 version. its crazy."
"jade, i don't have a problem with how you've addressed this and other issues. my generalized csm comments were not directed at you. in fact, my thanks goes out to you for being an advocate for the nighthawk.three major excuses were given by other csms as to why this measure wasn't passed -1. 'not enough support'. however, other measues have passed with less support. so, that's a lie.2. 'csm shouldn't micromanage 'small balance issues'. this is a cop-out. they are addressing other 'small balance issues', so why not this one?3. 'other races have crappy ships, so the nighthawk shouldn't be fixed'. this was truly one of the most ignorant and idiotic comments i've read in a long while.you've asked that this issue be 'readdressed' somehow. wtf does that mean? in this thread there is nearly indisputable proof and evidence of a glaring problem, and you want someone to start a whole new thread on the issue?!!?my frustration and anger isn't directed at you, other than you want to can this thread and simply start a new one instead of taking this thread to the csm again. if someone wants to start a new thread and cut and paste the numbers from here then that's fine by me. however, i'm not going to be involved in a plan to dress up a wolf as a sheep so that we can spoonfeed a bunch of idiots some basic math in hopes of getting them to realize that 2+2=4.the evidence is here. no one has yet presented proof to dispute it. if you want the issue addressed then use the evidence presented here."
"/signed"
"in reply to this, i think the answer is quite simple:to make all of the fc ships in-line with eachother, the sleip should loose some pg to balance it with the requirement of an rcu that all other ships must use, while the nh should have a pg increase to only require 1 rcu and maybe a pdu to fit hams, so each fc ship can use their close range variants with similar setups.edit: also take notice that the sleip is the only ship able to fit 3 weapon mods. it should have a rcu required to keep it in line with the others. however, as for the battle for the nh, if you got enough pg to fit hams, what would you put in the low slows? more bcus? no. each ship should be able to fit approximately 2 weapon mods. what else would you put in there so they don't make it's dps superior to others?"
"don't overlook the crane! all we need is a touch more grid and we will be happy."
"i vote yes"
"i'll entertain your troll for a moment. you seem to agree that caldari have terrible haulers. and by your sarcastic remark you also seem to think the best course of action is just not to train for them. forget feedback to ccp, just don't train caldari industrial, correct? if your attempt was to belittle this thread you've done a horrible job. in fact, you've done quite the opposite. just saying."
"agreed.either a better corp interface or a better eve-mail interface would be great. until that happens, please stop the mailbox spam."
"definitely like to see this one come up again - especially after i got through reading the tonyg novel last night"
"if you create 2 scripts, then you just recreate the problem listed. honestly, i see the advantage of a 600-1000 m/s assault frig becoming worth while if this change came through. it also removes the 100% effectiveness of webbers and the overwhelming desire to choose mwd over ab."
"don't know about the implementation and general opinion of the op.but i feel the ab needs a bit more love. as one above me said, af + ab would be cool. maybe simply add an ab bonus for afs, like thorax has for mwd cap."
"this is totally unacceptable and should be fixed somehow.the introduction of carriers brought new ways to move ships around in 0.0. they play a key role in rapid deployment and fleet logistics. two or three patches ago ccp introduced a new limitation which made it impossible to put ships into the carrier's ship bay if it the ship contained items other than ammo. this change was intended to reduce the cargo hauling capabilities of the carriers and worked pretty well. unfortunately, it had a side effect: the exotic dancer, which is almost as important in your cargo than the towel on your shoulder, can not be kept inside the ships that are being hauled by carriers. they could be hauled separately, of course, like in the cargo bay of the carriers, however in the heat of the battle, when taking out fully kitted ships from the carriers ship bay, one easily forgets to put the exotic dancer into the combat ships cargo bay. i think i do not have to explain what serious consequences such a mistakes have. everyone knows how important exotic dancers are when it comes to achieving significant military goals. my corp alone has lost countless ships because of this human error, triggered by this newly introduced limitation. we are talking about tenthousands of crew lost because of this, and about mega, possibly gigatons of unsalvaged scrapmetal floating around in space, causing significant environmental pollution. so, i would like ccp to make it possible to load ships into the cargo bay which contain exotic dancers. i leave it up to ccp how they implement it. i think the \"elegant way\" is to explicitely allow exotic dancers to be in the cargo bay when storing ships. the \"quick and dirty\" way would be reclassifying exotic dancers to be in the ammo category."
"signed"
"signed"
"i support this."
"totally agree."
"ohh yeah !!"
"i support this."
"signed"
"exotic dancers are the most needful entities besides the cockpit."
"are you kidding me? could someone explain to me how the op's request isn't a complete waste of time?"
"entertainment ftw!"
"shake it baby..."
"you are a girl, you don't understand such things.signed!"
"no, because it is a complete waste of time. he and his corp mates are testing the limits of their wit and this is what they were able to come up with. in other words he thinks he's being funny......which should tell you a lot right there.windjammer"
"you are soooooo serious as we are"
"you have your exotic dancers doing the filing?"
"that and everything else. exotic dancers are the ultimate accessory for every combat pilot. i heard that 42 was also a synonym for \"exotic dancer\". but honestly. having an exotic dancer in cargo was a requirement for every pilot in the corp before this carrier change happened. and it brought us a lot of luck. i would like to be able to have such luck-bringing items in my cargo. a lot of people were using things like dancers, some were flying with tobacco in cargo, some with a copy of pax amarria or \"pillaging 101\". i think little things like these bring color into the game and should be allowed again. i could imagine a solution where carriers accept ships with trade goods in cargo if there is no more than one single piece of each trade good type in the cargo. come on rp alliances, back me up : "
"the capsule is in essence an escape pod. as such it should be subject to the dynamics of a frictionless enviroment and a massive force exerting explosion.to make this simpler a pod should travel at several thousand m/s slowing down gradually at the ejection of said pod during the destruction of a ship. this of course would be influenced by the mass of the ship that is exploding.this would have the effect of propelling the pod several thousand km's from the site of the explosion.now for a detailed explanation from a customers pov.the number of elite players on both/all sides of conflicts are very high. as such inplants are needed to bring the much needed edge to a pilot in battle. however with the advent of warp disruption bubbles and hics etc pod are not likely to survive many engagements. this renders most clones with implants impotent. many people have invested billion in implants and are not able to use them for anything other then npcing. the suggestion that a pod would be hurled far away from the combat site may be the impotus that pilots need to return to using implants in battle.food for thought."
"supporting this.podkillin should be a ceptor job, and not that of bubbles/hic's/smartbombs."
"agreed"
"taking a look at any of the above mentioned ideas would be welcomed. the industrial side of the game has taken a backseat to the flashy pvp stuff for too long. i realize that combat is part of the game, but so is manufacturing. you have an economist on staff because it's an important facet of the game, right?"
"good post!im also saddened, that people playing the industrial side of the game  mining, manufacturing, research and market  are looked at as second rank people and laughed at, when they propose new ideas on how to improve the game experience for theese people.i have a few proposals for change myself, mostly about can flipping, which i see as griefing, since most miners doesnt have the skills to fight back the flipper. but so far it seems that eve endorse griefing other people.ive learned to adapt, but i still find alot of aspects about mining for broken.for example when i lived in stain, it gave better mins to just rat in the belts and reprocess, than actually mine.another example is the giant secure container, its not giant at all, because it holds only one cycle of ore. so its more or less useless for mining.i could go on, but i wont...i hope posts like this keeps reminding the devs/gms/csms that there are other players than the pvpers in the universe of eve.as a last note, i would also endores more support for the rp community in eve, its in my humble opinion what gives this game its soul."
"regarding missions, please see this thread.and also my own thread on missions."
"pvp could get some possibilities concerning player provided security. as it<U+FFFD>s discussed in the transferable killrights issue: concord does not really well in providing security. i guess there are lots of players who would like to do this job, but they are hindered by the game mechanics. getting \"honour\" in a thousand ways is a high motivator for playing, and this way should be accessible.on the interbus thing: this would be an unbeatable competition for haulers. please don<U+FFFD>t. hauling is profitable if you get a little into this business. you can even make more than a little 2kk if you just buy stuff which is only sold in the trade hubs of a region and spread them on a place further out for a suitable price. or other way round with different stuff.the idea with the metroits is fantastic. space could have more.....\"space\" in general. getting away from the \"just points\" thing. nanos are a good step in that direction.asteroid belts could be enriched with these \"serpent shaped roids\" you also get in missions, but lots more so that you maybe have to navigate through them to get to the best roids of the belt.and please: couldn<U+FFFD>t we get away from this carebear-pvp dychotomie? it<U+FFFD>s just game mechanics, which for example would disappear if all was nullsec except the starter systems. i don<U+FFFD>t think it<U+FFFD>s really the people. they<U+FFFD>re just posers, collectors, self-sufficient, boasting, looking for the hug of combat ....like people are."
"i'm a proud carebear of the most fuzzy description, but i'm afraid that i disagree with the premise of your post. neither carebears nor pirates can be characterized in such black-and-white terms, and there is plenty of gray space connecting them.i'm all for stiffer penalties for suicide ganking, and i'm all for more attention to the carebear community, but i think the csm has demonstrated that we're not underrepresented. i'm confident that a majority csm delegates and a majority of voters are carebears themselves or are sympathetically receptive to issues affecting carebears. certainly pvp-ers rely on carebears more than they care to admit, but let's not forget that carebears rely on pvpers as a market for their goods just as much.pvp issues are very important to the game, and improving the pvp experience helps carebears - more destroyed ships and equipment mean greater demand for new ships and equipment from industrialists, and better support allowing pvpers to fight each other  such as factional warfare and a revised 0.0 sovereignty system  means fewer pvpers becoming pirates for lack of obvious targets."
"except... a great deal of those destroyed ships are the care bears. because pirates get bored, and start bait canning in front of stations, or can flipping in asteroid belts. so your \"stimulated economy\" is actually care bears trying to rebuild from the havoc wrought by pirates.factional warfare ~seemed~ to take a bit of stress off. for a little while, pirates were entertained by killing anyone foolish enough to enlist and undock. however, like a child with a new toy, the fascination is beginning to wear off. pirates are still chasing a cheap thrill by terrorizing care bears, and writing in about how it should be made easier for them to find a soft target.most recent topic i've seen on f&i, is forcing players out of npc corps. discussion points include, limiting the types or sizes of ships a \"rookie corp\" member can operate, and regardless of skill training or vessel ownership a pilot must have a living breathing ceo before they can activate and undock.so the distinction is very real. care bears are those poor hobbits, just looking to enjoy a game they pay monthly for. they like to run missions, they like to mine  and evidently watch movies or surf the 'net , and they contemplate joining fw or heading for low-null sec.then they remember, that pirates are gruff, angry folks who insist \"eve isn't fair, so go back to wow\". they cheer when a ship explodes, they are giddy when they receive a killmail, and they demand \"nerf this\" and \"boost that\" so long as the endstate is more carnage and destruction."
"while pvp may lead to the need for more ships, the profits are thin at best... for the t2 ships and modules, it is very hard to compete  invention vs. t2 bpo, building t2 parts  moon minerals  vs. buying the parts punishment for evil-doing  suicide ganks  is almost non-existent... other \"grief\" play  not to be confused with play that is against the rules  is praised  again, unpunished  where the victim is hounded and picked on... i don't want a handout, i want to be able to compete... i am a carebear, i do not care to trade shots with someone, that is not my area of expertise, i want to be able to compete with them in my profession... nothing more."
"no, they're not. battleclinic keeps an eve-wide killboard; i glanced through the 30 most recent kills. only 17% were in hi-sec. only 13% were carebear ships  mining barges, mining frigs/cruisers, rookie frigs, or industrials . the substantial majority of ships destroyed were serious warships fighting in lo-sec.look at the sales volumes on the market. i don't have an eve client on my computer here at work, but if i were a betting man i'd bet you anything that the total number of non-carebear ships sold vastly outnumbers the total of carebear ships sold in the same time period.you're making a lot of sweeping generalizations based on your own experience, but there's a much bigger picture here. i am a carebear, but there isn't an obvious line separating carebears from pvpers. many carebears use the wealth they amass as industrialists to fund well-heeled pvp or pve alts. many carebears rely on pvpers in their corporations to defend their operations. i know dedicated pirates who are friends with peaceful empire corps. transferable kill rights and an updated bounty system will go a long way toward making carebears safer and pvpers happier at the same time.why would it matter what the hardcore pirates are saying in f&i? worry when those features might be implemented. someone from csm correct me if i'm wrong, but i understand that ccp is working on transferable kill rights and stiffer penalties for suicide ganking already. we're doing okay.hamfast, you make a good point about griefers - but griefing, as you point out, is indeed legal, and griefers can be defeated. hire mercenaries, or if it's really unbearable, temporarily leave your corporation to avoid being a valid war target. i've been there before, and that's what i did. it worked fine."
"marcus your post about the jc's, skill que and such seems to be a fairly decent idea. it applies to all players both pvp and bear type. however i was waiting for the others to see where this was actually going. and yes it went down the road i expected. this is turning into the \"request for a no pvp zone\" mantra. i am sorry but what makes this game fun is the edginess and the fact you are not safe anywhere with in the game. now as far as carebear losses being the majority of what is being lost in the game is a little erroneous me thinks. i can look up the various kb sites and see whats being destroyed where and by whom. and it is not supporting your claim. if you have a different source that proves your statement then fine, i would very much like to see it and i would then concede to the fact you have a valid point. as far as nerfs, the pvp crowd has been hit the hardest out of everyone. ships, training, modules, rules, mechanics and so on are being whacked by the nerf bat at a regular rate. on the other side of the coin i do not see a lot of additions to the bear community either but at least you are getting something. half the pvp additions are either broken when introduced or nerfed beyond usefulness. but when the pvp'rs complain they are told to adapt even by the same community they are apart of. bears on the other hand have not had much in the way of nerfs really. hammered the ore compression thing, carriers got hammed, and so on. but not so much it is detrimental to the point you have to cross train into another race of ships because your ships you have specialized in sucks twinkies. now if you were to stay within the realm of your post about the skill ques and such, i could get behind that. but not tearing down the game mechanics.but as you might already know, this is probably seen as \"niggling\" any way by some of the ccp crowd."
"tesseract - perhaps one reason your most recent killboard report shows low sec kills is because of factional warfare. and the multitude of participants there will mathmatically dwarf the care bear deaths by those pirates who aren't involved in fw.i've no idea about recent ship sales, but again... i'd imagine the sales are to replace ships lost in fw.to farrqua - i realize that ~some~ may ask for a totally free zone where they can run and prance and giggle all day without fear of death or dismemberment. in fact, it was a topic at one point.but we all understand that eve isn't totally safe. of course someone could shoot you right outside a 1.0 tutorial station. they'd be punished, but it could still happen.i'm not saying that pvp needs nerfed. what i am saying, is that pve needs more content, more flavor. there needs to be some substancial justification for ccp to call eve a \"space setting\" besides the wallpaper background. there needs to be some dedicated attention paid to the portion of the populace that aren't totally obsessed with larger guns, more bullets, and epeen stroking killmails.that's all."
"i think the real issue dian gets at is that there was never policing by any corporation of stocks b/c honestly, for 5 years they've had no value. they were never implemented into the game effectively and therefore when a fix comes, there should be some way to fix past history.it's easy to say, oh well you should have been more careful, but if you truly look at the value of any stock over the history of this game up until that slip up 4.5 years in, they've had no value.i understand the people who have paid have a concern in this. but honestly, you were pawns in a bigger scheme that really took advantage of a flawed game feature. it'd expecially be different if having 1 share didn't grant such intrusive access into the company. keep in mind, if rkk were to try to buy their way out of this mess, they'd be so heavily exploited it be a joke. and to ask them to give up a name of such history over this is so far beyond belief that you can't truly justify it.it' be like asking microsoft to change their name b/c 1 stock holder is exploiting them for 20 billion to regain that 1 share."
"sounds like a sensible proposal to me."
"gimme isk, as i paid isk to buy them, you get your shares back, done"
"the value of shares can go down as well as up.hard cheese me old mucker."
"over the course of my time on eve-online i've seen various discussions pop up time and time again with valid and not so valid arguments about ship balance. not all of them are valid, as i clearly mentioned earlier, but one 'bug', as i consider it to be, is the belief that you should be required to train in another race's ships to get the same effect from what your own race's should already provide.the most common complaints this response is given to is nanowhine. just train for one of two ships, a hugiin or a rapier i believe it was said. however, people shouldn't be *forced* to train for other ships to combat a specific play-style.i believe this \"just train outside of your race to be able to play the game\" response should be a bannable offense. it's clearly attempting to instigate fights and is borderline insulting to players who shouldn't have to train something else. it's like the constant wow whine saying \"just roll another class and forget the investment you've poured into this one\" instead of balancing it.up with balance! down with morons who don't know what balance means!"
"sorry m8 but i have to disagree. you are suggesting that every race should be the same? have the same kinds of ships with the same capabilities so that everything is \"fair\" and \"balanced\"? yeah sure, eve could go with a single race. but it would really suck. diversity 4tw. if you wanna web 30km+, learn matar. if you wanna nos 30km+ learn amarr. if you wanna jam anyone, learn caldari."
"i don't mean make everyone the same. i mean in a lot of ways the races are not balanced when it comes to dealing with specific scenarios. i shouldn't be forced to take 2-3 months to train to fly minmatar after putting so much investment into gallente.i'm merely stating that all those people who tell me to fly another race's ships are harassing me into shying away from the real issues of the game. balance."
"you want to carry a big \"banned\" stamp, for all the times someone tells you \"l2p noob\"?"
"well i think ccp's idea was to have a mmo that players worked together to compensate for weaknesses. so each race brings a strength and a weakness to the party. you can only undock with one ship. and from what i am trying understand, your saying you want to be able to address any specific situation that you run across in that one ship you undocked with.is this what you want?"
"there is nothing stopping a caldari from training minmatar cruisers. so if you really want to fly a rapier it doesnt really matter if you train for minmatar cruiser 5 or the new \"caldari cruiser ships we stole from the enemy 5\" skill. you are not supposed to be able to fly all ships at once, but you are supposed to use teamwork."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"fixing the ui, both bugs and inconsistencies, should be ccp's top priority. move a dev from new features and make it their sole responsibility to go through xaen's list.the ui in eve has driven away two people i tried to introduce to this game. it hasn't kept pace with the rest of the gaming world.allow full ctrl-shift forward/backward text selection and deletion in dialogs. fully implement sane and consistent tab field order. move the ui/windows to the accelerated gpu layer rather than the old cpu layer. absolutely move to threaded windows, it's atrocious that the market window takes so long to update/use."
"please for the love of god, yes! the ui in this game sucks and while most players can \"deal\" with it, why should we have to just deal with something that is supposed to be fun? make the ui more functional!heh, forgot to check the support boxy!also, would be really great if you could get a scroll box that read off the combat log, basically you could put this in the already existing chat box or make it a separate box up to the players preference. and dont get me started on the drone interface. it is in dire need of a complete overhaul, maybe listing the drones by type automatically?one more thing i thought of...why not use the rotator menu  i bet most people have never used this, but find a ship then click and hold and a nice picture menu shows up  on the station items, cargohold, and overview items. using pictures and not words is really much better."
"idea: create a few new reactions, or blueprints. these blueprints/reactions would have the effect of combining the current pos fuels into 1 or 2 fuels.. say all the chemical fuels could be combines into a new item \"gallente pos fuel\" and \"pos repair parts\".each day a small tower would use 1 unit of fuel, and 1 unit of parts. a medium tower would use 2 of each per day, and a large 3 per day.you could make it so pos's could run off either system, the old components, or the new fuels. all this change would really do is simplify pos fuels so traders could combine the materials into an easily marketed comodity.thoughts? or does everyone like running all over the place gathering up different items to fuel their pos's?"
"easier pos fueling ftw."
"this was actually proposed a few months back with \"fuel pellets\" but was hit by considerable whines by those with one or a couple posses. those of us who managed a couple dozen posses hit the knees praying for the change.anyway, bring back this idea, because us hardworking logistics guys would greatly appreciate this over spending an hour filling out fueling schedules before actually transferring the proper quantities of pos fuel :p"
"i only manage 1 pos, and i support this idea...as it stands now, i have to select and move 8 different fuel bits, in different amounts, from the hanger we store it in to the tower... as one gets low i need to aquire and restock it... if i could buy a bpo, perhaps research it, and instead of all the different parts, just haul in \"gallente tower fuel\" then it would be awesome!tower fuel could also be a commodity for sale on the market..."
"the horror of helping our logistics guys back in the day..."
"hehe, i could have sworn i supported my own idea."
"fuel pellets are great. what i want is an upgradeable station fitting that dispatches drones to do it all.virtual serfdom is not a fun game."
"such a drastic change would definitely be mishandled in the worst way no thanks."
"well in the end the csm decided the issues needed to be split up prior to voting. there was a fair amount of discussion and the chatlog can be seen discussion from 19:10 onwards in the end the ccp voted against escalating the dd through pos shields issue, and against both killmail issues  damage past gates and sd avoiding killmail creation . but voted for the pos standings  alliance derived toggle  and aggression clearing past stargates issue. all the best."
"so how about suicide gankers get the option to buy off concord officials say for like 10m a minute * by security system rating * by individual standings with condcord?corruption rulez ok"
"/agree with op wholeheartiley"
"hg crystals good for solo golem pvp  lol  and.....lets face it, its not crystals that are broken but shield tanking, hell come to that active tanking full stop.crystals are quite easily fixed +hp & +recharge time. this makes them identical to slaves which while a step in the right direction is the exact reason they've never done it."
"1  you don't lose training time, you have the option to use those small turrets, it's not wasted skilltime2  turrets are easier in some aspects: for example you only train the specialisation skill for rails and blasters, the normal skill  e.g. large turrets  counts for both, while in missiles you have the division already for the normal skill  e.g. torp and cruise  and for specialisation  trop spec and cruise spec .3  you can use your turret support skills if you train other weapon systems, e.g. if you switch from hybrids to minmatar and train artillery. missile skills are for missiles only. and missiles suck at pvp because of nano ships, so you train lots of sp only for missions and can't use that skills for any other weapon systems."
"assembly hall concern:what is the csm doing in regards to organization of the issues raised in the assembly hall forums?some keep getting bumped as if they aren't on the front page, then they might be ignored. we really don't know. some issues have lots of concern from the players and span many pages, with lots of votes, and stay more in the spotlight or, get bumped to front page more frequently .other issues are smaller, of less concern to more players, yet still valid to some. these fall into the depths of the forum, don't get bumped, and assumed forgotten.if csm delegates approach the assembly hall the same way i do, then you check the first page, 2nd page, 3rd pagy, etc. but we all have lives we can't just view forums all day.so basically, what, if anything, might be done to organize the chaos of the issue proposed in the assembly hall?"
"i assume the csm has an organized solution to this already, but none that the issue raisers can see.if i may be so daring to make a suggestion for issue processing:tabled - prioritized - scheduled - addressed - resultstabled, addressed, and results are steps that we the voters care about.tabled - we present issues, we want to know that our concerns are recognized, or rather, tabled in a big list of issues that csm delegates will one day address. this could be an status icon next to an issue thread to indicated that hey, you don't need to bump this!addressed - we are most interested in hearing about when an issue is actually addressed by the csm. this could be yet another status icon next to thread, indicating that the issue has actually been raised by the csm.results - obviously we want to know the results on an issue. perhaps a csm delegate could copy paste all the relevant results into the thread, and click a checkbox that indicates that this is the results of the csm addressing the issue. then, perhaps clicking the \"addressed\" status icon of the thread could bring you straight to the results post.prioritized - this is a step for the csm, should be totally up to you how you choose to prioritize, and you already to this. only thing that i could suggest is that the csm have a public list of tabled issues, so that we the players can see how issues are prioritized for the sake of full disclosure.scheduled - this should be totally up for the csm to decide, same as prioritizing, but again, for the sake of full disclosure, made public."
"sorting through the assembly hall forums.building on my previous suggestions, i'm sure all of you would appreciate some organization of the forums as well, in order to sort through issues tabled, issues addressed, new issues, issues most discussed, issues most supported, etc.unless you guys know something that i don't, you don't get any help from the forum with sorting through all of the threads. nope, you gotta sort through them by most recently created/bumped, to oldest.so this suggesting is fairly simple: thread sorting."
"@ arithron first: ill mail everyone for forms sake and then well be picking the top two vote-ranked respondents that would like to commit to this. but thanks for your enthusiasm! its nice to see well have a least one eager new alternate for the role. to y"
"still waiting"
"..."
"/me tries to remember who he voted for..."
"a  in a lot of  lowsec- systems you can trade an npc good just from station a to b in the same system once with a middle/upper industrial and make over one million profit. semi afk npc hauling gets you even more isk per hour compared to low/mid-level mining  around 8-10 mil isk at least  with less afford as i guess.courier missions level iv get you around 0.3-0.5 mil isk plus lp for far less jumps than lower level missions on my experience. often it<U+FFFD>s just one jump in a shuttle back and forth.b  almost none open courier contract on the player market have comparable volume/distance/colleteral ratios.  there are shiny exceptions   the good thing is that they are shown in your profile to get some reference for often more lucrative private contracts later.in case a  the haulers wallet says thanks, in case b  the haulers wallet and the whole player driven economy gets some out of it.to strengthen the second one some suggestions would be: - cutting down margins from npc hauling- taking all taxes/fees from courier contracts - freeing them from the contract limit- make that you can see the distance between location of the object and destination on the contracts overview- get the industrials faster warp speedbut most important it<U+FFFD>s an interface thing: giving the haulers an ingame possibility to announce their routes, and something like like \"bid-courier contracts\".this would make it much easier to bundle shipments and that means much better isk/time ratio. plus the better possibility for all to get smaller shipments in mid and long range done.think of it: annoyed again when you need four namend guns, but these are spread over three places?you could just look if a hauler will be on this route to save you one trip or maybe reduce it from eight to two jumps.and you can be sure that your staff is in place in time  obvious exeption: hauler is shot , which you can<U+FFFD>t if you give up a courier contract....or you pay really lots or give it an endless expiration time.how does that sound?[ui, over this post i forgot my mammoth at a gate in lowsec....nothing happened, was npc stuff anyway ]edit: typo..."
"sorry, should have been posted in the assembly hall i guess..."
"sorry to boil your post down to one sentance but...doing mission gives you far far better isk per minute.npc trading helps new player traders geting their starting isk imho"
"there are alot of mmo's out there and in my opinion none of them come close to eve. but i am a little upset about the lack of non-\"ingame\" controll options. all i'm talking about is the little stuff. the ability to read evemails from the evewebsite, i dont care about sending them but reading them would be a good start. also it would be awsome to have a way to change your skills from the website rather then having to actualy log on to the game... there are alot of times when i am away from my desktop for work, school, or family activitys. but because i dont have a computer with the client i can not change my skills. i understand this brings up some third party program issues where programs could atomaticly switch your skill but i know there are ways to eliminate that almost compleatly. even in a browser based switching script.i think there are alot of little things like that you could add that would make eve more availible to ppl with low end computers or limmited computer/internet access. they would not be hard and it would greatly improve eve-online flexability."
"/signed, fantastic idea."
"signed"
"me like."
"issue of getting updates of the static data when new versions of the client is released:"
"/signed"
"i don't see the point , logistics frigates would have the same effectiveness of afs - they just don't scale well. small remote reps are short ranged and weak , consider that logistics cruisers have a powergrid bonus to fit large remote reps. they can be either tanked or nanoed , so that they can shrug off single attackers reaching them or avoid getting caught entirely. a logistics frigate would die to the first rifter looking their way.a role fitting for a t2 frigate is electronic support - remote sensor booster , eccm , tracking links. long range abilities that do not attract the attention of enemies too much , but can lend significant help with enough of a bonus.who needs rapiers when your medium guns can track interceptors ? remote sensor boosters are very dangerous offensively , and bonused eccm would be a welcome counter to falcons."
"anything that adds a new ship is a good idea in my book. i'm not sure about the specifics, but i am willing to be that even though they will be primary often and not survive for very long people will use them more since they will be fairly cheep. they would also make a nice addition to small gangs.perhaps give them enough pg and cap bonuses to mount the med sized ones like the cruiser sized logis can mount large remotes?ack, forgot the support check box again!"
"i support having 30 and 90d codes"
"the second bug i haven't seen myself, but the first one is insanely annoying - i order my drones to attack one ship, and five seconds later three of them split off to attack something else entirely. drone ai has gotten a lot better since i've started playing, but there's still some bits that need work."
"first i've suffered. the second i've never seen... yet."
"/signed and my domi thanks you"
"regarding the second bug, you mean they still have not removed collision detection from drones? well, it contributes to lag at least : "
"i think we have too many drones in the game. in fleet fights noone can even monitor them in the overview since they would mess it up. i think most of these bugs derive from the fact that the server has to calculate the relative positions of so many 3d objects. i would suggest to make some changes in drones to simplify the process.make one light drone that takes 25 bandwidth and is able to run as fast as the current light drones but hit 5 times as hard. signature and all would remain the same. hp would be 7* times  * i suggest to be 7 times and not 5 times because 1 drones is much easier to be chosen as target and it is not my intention to nerf the drone users in any way  the current single light drone etc....same for medium drones the 5 medium drones bandwidth ones would be replaced by a single 50mbit bandwidth medium drone.same for heavies. replace the 5 25mbit ones with 1 of 125mbit that would hit 5 times as hard have 7 times the hp but maintain the cirrent signature.that way we would have less objects to calculate therefore less lag and would add new tactics in combat since hiting the drones would be easier but tanking them using remote reps would be easier as well. additionaly we would no longer have the colliding bug and possibly would be easier the single drone to do less mistakes in target choice."
"very annoying bugs indeed, needs to bee fixed"
"there are ships that don't have multiple of 25 as bandwidth or drone bay.all the gallente and most of the other races t1 frigates have between 5 and 15 m3 of drone bay. remove the drones and they will lose a good percentage of damage. enlarge the drone bay/bandwidth and they will become too powerful."
"so many other more pressing issues for csm to address i hope this one is well down the list of priorities. alliances will simply destroy fw in my opinion by dominating the space and making the fights even more blob centric than they are at present. with the additional numbers alliances will bring to fights comes lag and diminished pvp experience."
"no. the pvp experience and organisation of alliance pilots is far grater than those of the regular empire dwellers which are participating in fw.a pvp corporation will get tired of shooting noobs for shizzle in about 3 weeks tops and will focus on the other pvp corporations in the other militia. in these 3 weeks many noobs will avoid combat and many more will die without a chance and all be disapointed. why? because there is little place for them in the sand box.after the pleasure of shooting poorly fighting back targets is gone, alliance pvp corporations will be reluctant to take on noobs aboard, becasue they lack pvp skills and thus do not help fighting the otther alliance pvp corps. plus they could be spies.most people are selfish and most act like it without thought. i believe it is best to let alliances where they are. besides, noobs killing noobs is fun, unlike vets bbquing noobs. they get teh taste of pvp and as fw has no set candy once you \"win\" they will look into pvping somewhere else, somewhere with more rewards: mercenary corps, pirate corps, 0.0 corps."
"1. lower pos/anchorables/station services hp drastically. less to take down, less people to do it with, less to repair back if you are a defender, moar fights, less lag. leave current sov system alone, as it keeps thing simple. 2. limit friendly status for alliances based on size and have those limits translate over to overview settings. less friends for larger alliances,  as many enemies as you want  further limiting super power napfailtrains3. consumable and randomized moon minerals4. do not touch suicide ganking outside of missions, nothing wrong here, scout it out, warp core stab it, do not fly afk."
"3 and 1 would not fix the moon min problem and would likely only make it worse. changing sov so that you can either have a mining station, or a station for sov. one or the other, not both. coupled with changing the distribution of minerals within the reactions.that would pretty much fix the moon min and sov issues.lowering hp though...maybe. smaller more specialized ships for disabling the stations or parts of the station though. that could be an idea."
"supported, excellent idea. always used to see eom as amarr/gallente crossbreeds, but hey, that's my opinion. would love to see ammatar ships in an amarr/minmatar or minmatar/caldari skillset :p"
"i'd love more pirate faction ships. there is one problem with your logic though. there are only 2 pirate factions that use gallente and minmitar factions, at least from an rp perspective. the ships received through serpentis aren't serpentis ships, but rather guardian angel ships, which are a sub-division of angel cartel."
"current combos:minmatar/gallente = angel & serpentisminmatar/amarr = blood raidergallente/caldari = guristaamarr/caldari = sansharemaining combos:amarr/gallenteminmatar/caldariseems kinda odd that the minmatar/gallente combo would be used twice. id think angel would be better off as a minmatar/caldari combo  judging from location, tank type, and supposed jove origins [friends of minmatar/caldari races] . serpentis works well as a minmatar/gallente combo due to the friendly relationship between the serpentis and angel factions. that would leave the amarr/gallente combo.eom ships would be sweet, but the way they work, they are amarr ships that use hybrid guns and armor tanking. they should be an amarr/gallente mix  which is currently missing  since the amarr/caldari skillset is used by sansha. problem is, they dont hold any space and are solely mission rats. doesnt stop me from wanting to fly a sleek blue/silver hull though~!  new space to play around in? minor factions i think should be one race only. thukker would get minmatar, mordu would get caldari, sisters/intaki would get gallente, khanid ?  would get amarr. who else am i leaving out? only issue with this setup is that gallente gets two sets, and khanid doesnt need faction ships since they are already incorporated into the amarr t2  half the ships are of khanid design thereabouts ."
"if they do add an alternative means for acquiring t2 materials that currently depend on \"super valuable moons\", it should be along the same vein as invention. it could even involve r&d agents, and make them useful for more than just datacores.for example: you give a reaction bpo to an r&d agent and they will \"discover\" bpc's of an alternate reaction that can yield the same material but require different  ie- cheaper  inputs. these reaction bpc's would be good for maybe 50,000 units at best.or better yet, the r&d agents could somehow provide reaction bpc's to combine the common moon minerals into the uncommon ones...my personal choice would be an exploration site with some special object that you can mine  ie- a comet  and obtain a limited amount of moon materials. this would be the most fun.but regardless of how it works, it will have the same results as with invention and t2 production. being able to somehow create those t2 materials without owning an actual source would normalize the prices of such materials. and then of course those cheaper t2 materials would cause t2 equipment to be cheaper too.but probably the greatest impact such a feature would have on eve would be the reduced income of all the super-alliances that largely depend on those isk fountain moons to support their fleets.so balancing moon minerals would also bring balance in other areas. and i can only support such a suggestion."
"signed"
"if that's what is worrying you then you should be thanking us instead of trolling us as we're trying to make this game less like hello kitty online by making you earn your lunch instead of getting it for free. most of us here don't want high sec safer. i personally want the rewards to justify the risk, which at the moment isn't the case."
"no insurance for renegade pod pilots who engage poorly defended ships known as \"rats\" since concord does not immediately obliterate all these ships in hi-sec. how can they be criminals? there needs to be a law!thousands of blatent legal violations occur everyday, yet the agressors can have their ships insured. oh the madness!the bottom line is a vocal minority wants a risk-free empire space, and that i cannot endorse, and \"making suicide ganking more difficult\" will do absolutley nothing to this effect. but hey if it makes completely ignorant people happy  including devs , **** it, knock yourself out."
"where is the freaking thumbs-down sign??? ccp get on this!!!"
"so what you are saying is that you want to nerf highsec missions?"
"with the latest official database dump now nearing its 7th month of being outdated, i think it would be nice to have ccp commit themselves to giving this information sharing a bit higher priority.and while something was done from around april where t20 and prismx started to make the dumping process slicker, it still makes me fear that even though the process might be faster now, the datadump process still need to be prioritized and assigned to someone during the launch of a new version.it would be nice if ccp would commit themselves to say: \"the db dump will be released with the clients\", or something similar achievable. just so we know what to expect.an alternative would be to expand the current icon generating functionality of the /webtools command so that it could generate a set of datafiles with the starmap, items and data. this should be something the client already have in its files. the rest of the static data from ex mapcelestialstatistics and/or mapdenormalized can then be published normaly if they would generate too much traffic.the datadump process need to be prioritized higher and assigned to someone during the launch of a new version of eve"
"alot of people don't get why we feel this is important so i wanted to add a note that maybe people will understand.the datadump we so eagerly want is used in the killboard software, without it we don't have accurate information on newer ships or fittiing slot changes.just one example."
"aren't they working on new system that allows them to easily publish the data. so for next patches we should get it much quicker, i hope.should release it already for ea tho"
"i think this is a very important issue that ccp should address."
"yes. the data dump needs a much higher priority than what it is currently given."
"the fact is, the datadump should be released in advance of expansions, not months afterwards. this applies also to updated apis.if ccp is going to support developers, it needs to apply the same level of professionalism it would to any other aspect of the developmental process. the rule that traditionally companies should 'focus on what brings in the money and keeps people happy' does not hold true or can be deceptive when working with third-party developers. while a small group of people, there are few groups of people who hold as much sway over the happiness of other players. killboards and evemon are two great examples of programs that have really added something to the game; if ccp continues to neglect developers, the rest of the community starts to feel it. ultimately, anything that affects developers affects the majority of the community in time.i hope ccp will see through the mistakes they have made in the past with managing the api and datadump projects and place these two projects, along with further supporting tools, ahead in the priorities list. communication also desperately needs to be improved; i find it sad that while our old api developer  ccp garthagk  is still in the #eve-dev channel in coldfront, months after his departure from ccp, we have yet to see our new api developer even join once to converse with developers. this lack of communication has hurt the process of development and the morale of third party developers hard, and pushed the relationship between the developer community and ccp apart like a wedge.ccp needs to address these issues before the problem develops any further. people seem to take it for granted that applications like the eve-dev killboard used by most corps/alliances just keep themselves up-to-date and working; developers work long and hard on applications  i've spent around 10 hours today on eve metrics, for example  and to some extent ccp are just shunning all this work that's being done for them. the sensible move from a business and crm perspective here is to prioritise the api and datadump, with another developer if needed, and to get developers in better contact with the devs working on the tools."
"i aggree with ix. third-party developers have a huge sway on the way people interact with the game and priotiseing them into new client updates will help keep the community as a whole much happier."
"agree entirely with this. to have to wait several months to update 3rd-party applications that rely on a lot of the static data is just frustrating, especially when you see that garthagk managed to release the last export before the trinity patch. i can appreciate that some work was being done on the export procedures but in all honesty, it shouldn't take anywhere near this long to release an update."
"i agree. there's no reason that an updated datadump shouldn't be released with each new patch, and while that may be ccp's intention already, it's important enough to be formally addressed."
"missions definitely need more variety."
"and if your in your trader carrying 100m in goods?? tuff luckno thanksif you want those guristas to jump into another mission, sure  and a lot more deadly . but mission running is not a part of mining, trading or other types of play.i can just imagine my corpmates. while ice mining, a bunch of gurista bs's jump in and start shooting up everything and everyone.wtf???? what ***** caused that??uhm. sorry guys. i run missions to.well great. then you can at least afford to buy us new mining ships. b.t.w., we also lost 40 sheets of ice. i assume you'll mine those on your own. the rest of the ideas i do like though, so except for the part mentioned above, tumbs up."
"to the top"
"the truth revealed ....... advertise that new players can enter and prosper .... bull!!! what you have done is to set it up so that no matter what direction a person goes he is either destroyed or must join a factiion or corp alredy in supreme existance ....one could play safe and be board by doin level 1 missions till hell freezes over or join a corp .....level 2 creates more set backs over and over to force one to either be board or join a corp ......the point is that you advertise falsly to keep people paying for your game and no matter what they are forced to join corps with mega bucks and pay this monthly fee for a few years before one can really expand on his own ...why cant you just tell the truth and get the players that want6 to pay for that kind of crap..... instead your greed as a company called eve on line is hoping that many will pay for the game and a few months of playing time you get your money and to hell with the players that you lied to ....there will be more new people to lie to and rob ...i am very sorry i bought into this ...it is totally misleading and i for one do not like being forced to be ruled by bull**** have a nice day"
"that's definitely some good ideas right there."
"support this. wtf is wrong with that ghan guy - seek help man "
"exactly what i was thinking about, a bit mor fun to missions, a lot less unnamed ti loot since i, too think that industrialists are somewhat laughed at from ccp's side"
"supported!!"
"i think the ultimate factor here is not that there are a few places where there are the best quality agents, but the fact that the best quality agents have such poor distribution.for example: take a look at the amarr imperial navy. they have a *lot* of level 4 agents. a lot of them are also quality 20. the problem? around 8-12 of these agents are distributed between two systems. not constellations. not regions. two systems.internal security:hamen banela, level: iii, quality: 20yahyerergahta zahashir, level: iii, quality: 20yahyererahvasa aradoh, level: iv, quality: 20yahyererjabha dinuhar, level: iv, quality: 20yahyerermelmaja gaku, level: iv, quality: 20yahyerersazaktid nafir, level: iv, quality: 20yahyerernow ask yourself, why are there so many high quality agents in a single system, all in the same branch? i'm sure there are other tends out there.i feel that dynamic agents may only cause other issues in the game, namely agent hub griefing. a lot of players run missions because they enjoy doing so, and it's a nice way to make isk with a limited amount of risk, but the risk is still there. if dynamic agents are made, what is to prevent a corporation to log-in just after downtime, suck it dry, and continue to do so to prevent players from making isk?i think the way to help with lag is to simply distribute agents over a wider field. there are a lot of agents that are far too close to eachother. i think there should be a balance of agents, especially level 4 agents, between high sec and low sec. as it is now, high sec is laggy due to the very poor placement of the limited number of level four agents. if there were more level four agents spread around with varying levels of quality  but nothing too high, that's for low-sec i'd like to think , then people will stop flocking to the \"best\" agent and instead go for the second best. after all, 5-10 points of quality wont make or break an agent for missioning.however, if you must have dynamic agents, then do it along with this idea of better placement of agents for mission runners. and have it only lower the quality by a small number. for example:lets say agent a in system a is widely used because he's a quality 10 agent.agent b in system b isn't widely used because he's a quality 2 agent, and obviously people want more bang for their isk, so they go to agent a. the dynamic quality shouldn't take agent a all the way down to -20 quality, but it should take him down maybe to 0 at the most, or if you must -5 or so, making agent b more viable. as traffic lets up, agent a's quality rises and agent b's doesn't fall due not having as big of a draw as agent a. thus their qualities even out, being more attractive to players and allowing things to balance out."
"i've also discovered a trend that a few other corporations have also followed.the ministry of war has three level four, quality 20 agents on the same station as well, all of them internal security.i don't care if they're all in 0.1 systems, just put them in different ones!"
"and if all agents have quality, and all npc corporations have agents in all divisions, then doesn't that make all npc corporations generic ?1. i believe lvl and quality should be based on system security status  not new i guess - hehe , but differences in quality should be greater / system. 2. also spread the agents more into space. 3. we should have no lvl 4 agents in systems above 0.5, no lvl 3 agents in systems above 0.74. the diffs between agents should be great, lvl1 -> lvl2 -> lvl3 -> lvl4 -> lvl5while:5. skills and quality should make the path from lvl x  to lvl x+1  more linear"
"this would reduce a lot of lag with basically no downside."
"supported"
"their rating like much of the information granted for free in eve should be hidden and if possible dynamic."
"removing qualitiy signed"
"i suspect your #3 would be one way to reduce a lot of lag... all those mission runners limited to level 2 and 3 agents because they have no desire to be targets for low sec pirates/mission jumpers will find other things to spend their time doing... i know it would help me move to another game all the faster...i could see limiting max quality  with dynamic quality levels  based on the posted security level of a system, but not beyond that.as for the serenity steele comment... giving all npc corps all agent types would make no sense... why would transtellar shipping need a mining agent? while some agent divisions could or should be found in all npc corps  admin, security... a few others perhaps  there is no viable reason that all corps would have all divisions... but a spread of agents over many systems of varied  or varying  quality for all appropriate divisions would be good."
"/signed"
"i can't say i agree 100% with this idea, but i will say that it's a change and a decent one at that, so i support it.however, the ideas my friends and i came up with were somewhat different, but still rather close to the ideas you presented.essentially: assault frigates should be considered mini-cruisers. at this point in time, they seem to be a joke for two reasons: their mass is far larger than their tech i variants, while hacs are the same and can achieve speeds faster than their tech i counterparts. their severe lack of mid-slots and/or low-slots severely limit their viability.i personally don't think assault frigates need more dps, more tank. instead, i think they need more speed to bring them up to par with heavy assault cruisers over their tech i variants, and give them more mid/low slots. one example is the retribution. it has a *single* mid-slot. considering the current nano-craze, this is incredibly disabling for the ship.considering their role should be as mini-cruisers, they should be allowed more versatility, and thus be able to fit more than a single module in any one slot. heck, they probably should have closer to what most cruisers had for med/low slots."
"i made some calculations on the speed of afs myself.the same mass for the t1 counterpart of the af ? thumbs up.* proposed change to the retribution ? no, thanks* proposed change to the vengeance ? yes to a velocity bonus, no to a slot change* proposed change to the harpy ? no !* proposed change to the hawk ? no, thanks* proposed change to the enyo ? no !* proposed change to the ishkur ? yes.* proposed change to the jaguar ? no !* proposed change to the wolf ? no ! --erik"
"sorry but gotta agree with mighty on this, atm nano is the do it all wonder. and as far as nano's adding variety i don't agree with that statement at all. i miss the days of giant slug fests with big ships, interceptors and frigs tackling like mad etc. now your either nano fit, counter nano  which normally involves a couple ships nano fit themselves  and that's about it. there is no variety when most of the gangs you come across these days are nano and that's it."
"slugfests are easy to find if you want them."
"i think it is safe for me to say that ccp has a healthy viewpoint on nanoships that the op would be comfortable with. not saying any more than that though.here's a thumbs up for you anyway, sonny."
"nanos have many weaknesses i encourage players to explore all their option before calling this a lost cause .because this argument simply implys that players should drop risky dangerous fittings for safer slower fittings . nanos are risky and dangerous they allow fast escapes but at the expense of true tanking and firepower the nano ship comes pre nerfed .nanoships simply are for people who like fast and deadly combat by saying nerf it you asking ccp to alienate a sizable portion of the community and a entire race of ships to satisfy the frankly unskilled and unimaginative people out there pvp is about combat and tactics not spider tanking and blobbing"
"to quote dubanfp:i'll also make note of the fact that it's extremely easy to kill nanoships. i'll even make a step-by-step guide on how to do it:1  name your character \"garmon\". 2  ???3  profit!"
"nanoes are fine. here is a example from the python cartels big book of epic battles. us: 1 gank celestis  me, 3 light neutron iis, 2x lse, mwd, 2x damps, magstabs and pdus , 1 blackbird, 1 griffin, 1 arbitrator, 1 moa.them: 1 7km/s vagabond.location: rancer pipe, some system on the hek end, some planet.vagabond warps to the planet, and starts running around us at a good distance. i don't warp the gang, because i want to make sure everyone is aligned first. the vagabond makes a pass at us, i order all the ewar to be put on it, and people to web it if it comes close. the vagabond makes its first pass without even being able to lock. we warp off to another planet, the vagabond follows. the griffin gets seperated from the gang, vagabond kills the griffin. the vagabond keeps trying to get the gang, but horribly fails, because its tracking distruped, ecmd and damped. eventually our gang warps off to a gate and jumps out.now, this vagabond, which probably cost around 200-250 million, was only able to kill a single t1 frigate worth less than a million. the whole gang put together was maybe worth around 30-40 million. all that was required to avoid it was sticking together, and putting ewar on it. nano ships aren't overpowered, you just have to know how to deal with them. if you think a gang of pure battleships, without any of the counters, f.ex. heavy neuts, can kill a ship, that got around 100-150 million isk invested in the ability to run away, you are delusional. nano ships got 100-150 million isk, invested soley in the ability to run away. their offense comes from being able to attack from out of gank and web range. their defense comes from manuvering and staying at the right distance at the right time, as well as escaping when schitt hits his only fan."
"ccp should concentrate on other items first instead of listening to the whines of people that don't know how to fit a decent counternano.as has been stated numereous times before the game offers enough countertactics. and if you do want to change something at least improve something instead of nerfing things.eve is different from other mmporg as it really demands skilled pilots or organised groups to achieve something. if you want an easy game go and play wow instead of the constant nerf this nerf that whine. by joining wow you'll probably please both games by increasing the average iq level"
"right, because you can't roam in a system that doesn't have a cyno jammer, can you? you, the attacker, chose where you bring the fight. don't whine if you have a disavantadge when you do it in the heart of the enemy territory.for roaming even there adapted ships already exist. interceptors, interdictors, cloakers, non-nanoed has and recons. but of course, ganking with those ships is a tad harder and more risky than doing it with what amount to 9k assault-resist shielded, 300-500 dps interceptors, isn't it? this logic is so wrong it's mind-boggling. if it is true, then no outnumbered side ever won a fight against a larger foe before nano became largely used. it is the case, right?if you have the courage of your opinions about \"not auto-dying to superior numbers 100% of the time\",  read, removing the necessity of commiting to a fight you start  then i expect you to advocate a removal of the warp core stab penalties at the next csm meeting.the rethoric spouted by the nano-fans is always the same. yes, they are ways to fit your ship to drive away a single nanohas. but to actually get to kill a competent one? that reduce things to only 2 choices: minmatar recons, or superior numbers. that is clearly not enough.larger forces killing most of the time a smaller force, if the smaller force let itself be caught within attack range, when all other parameters are equivalent, is a fact of life and pure logic. if you don't accept that, you're better suited to a game where you only fight npcs.you are trying to kill roaming, by making it pointless for the defender to mobilise to defend againt an attack, if they can't hope to catch more than one or two of the attackers.you know that little ship called interceptor? the one that has been more or less obsoleted by nano cruisers? that's the ship of choice for roaming behind enemy lines.i voted for you because you seemed relatively bright, and capable of reasoned argumentation. but i see you prefer to defend your favored play style over the general balance of the game. that or you really are blind."
"i'm sorry jade, your argument doesn't wash.you say nano ships are a good 'counter to the blob'? well what's the counter to a nano-blob?we on a fairly regular basis see 30 to 50 man strong nano gangs running around.how are people supposed to 'skirmish' against that? the only counter is to bring for example 50 battleships - but then the nanos won't engage because of all the usual problems of fighting nanos...and you had better hope those battleships aren't missile ships  yes yes, i know - missiles suck for pvp anyway  cos if so they are doing 0 damage, etc, etc.i'm sorry jade but you are flat out wrong. while it was the occasional typhoon or specialist vagabond doing it nano fitting was kinda cool. when everyone does it then it just sucks...and everyone is doing it.i see a hac or recon on scan i basically assume its nanod - in fact i can only remember one occasion so far this year we have run into a non-nanod hac  it died .i formed a gang a few days ago and when i asked what ships we had in gang of 9 people 3 had brought rapiers - because we know its going to be nanos. yes we can counter them but its still crap. its no fun to play against, so you end up having to go nano yourself to have fun, so the variety and options and possibilities in eve all vanish because you are basically left at:nanosniping bs  for specialist uses capitalas the only real options for 0.0 combat"
"oh, and there are other options to counter the blob that people used to use.for example: snipers with snipe spots, skirmishing.burn eden style tactics with interdictors, cloaks - picking your targets.packs of recons.etc etcbut all of those have been obsoleted by the swiss army knife of eve - the nano ship."
"dude, he was alone, there was five of you, including 4 e-war boats. how can you use a fight like that to discuss balance? isk cost has never been a valid argument for discussing balance. 15 pilots in t1 frigs could easily kill a marauder, etc..."
"yes, nerf nanos.- nerf the ability to fight alone and favor the mighty blob.- nerf player intelligence for zerg tactics. we don't need roaming gangs into our nullsec ratting opperation. without nanos it will be easy to make a megablob against anyone and kill them if they dare to venture into our space. of course, they will have the option of megablobbing too.- nerf nanos for easy gate camping. traveling through nullsec? well, make a blob if you want to do it.it's so amazing how people ask for more tactical options and the ability to use one's wits but cry for help when someone else use these things"
"that is not the point. the point is we had the tools to make sure he couldn't touch us, despite the fact that we couldn't kill him, he was unable to kill us unless we slipped up. the point was that there are counters to nanos  counter as in, rendering them useless, not killing them. as far as the 15 frigs could easily kill a marauder. do you think 15 bantams with mining lasers could easily kill a marauder? i don't think so, because the 15 bantams with mining lasers wouldn't have the right tools. point beeing, that:if you don't bring the right tools for the job, how can you expect to get the job done?"
"you're wrong. when speaking about balance you have to consider an equal amount of players on each side. because there's nothing that say in the game mechanics that this side has xx size limit and that one yy. if there's no 1v1 balance there's no way a 30v30 is going to be balanced, and so on.so, alone against a single nano ship, what options to kill it do you have? there's only 2: nano yourself, and be even faster, or fly a nanoed huginn-rapier.how to fix nanos? first a nerf to the mwd module. the very fact that it's an absolute must-have mod in sub-capital pvp is a clear proof that it's overpowered. with it mwding hacs can reach back a gate they just used, even with xx interceptors to web them, and do the same thing on the other side, rince and repeat, which is pretty ridiculous. nerf them from 550% to, say, 350%, and it will still be an usefull mod. just not a must-have anymoreif you look back at all the overpowered ships and setups that got nerfed over the years, mwd were in cause in most half the cases.then, replace the sig radius penalty on large shield extenders by a speed penalty to force players to choose between speed tanking or buffer tanking, but not both at the same time.last, nerf pylocarbs so they're more in line with other rigs, that is about 60-70% as effective that the module they're supposed to replace.with that, speed tanking will still work, at least on hte ships that are supposed to do it, but it won't be superior anymore to conventionnal tanking, and pylocarbs won't cost 50m anymore, and afterburners  who could use a boost, too  will start being an alternative again."
"this is what jade should be saying...of course, jade doesn't speak like that... instead it's more like..."
"3 power blocks, mindless sov system, unbearable game breaking lag due to the ability of megafail alliances to field 500+ gangs, node crashing nonsense, all of these problems are far moar important than a few newbies getting their arses shot off because they haven't figured out game mechanics i tend to fly rapiers and falcons, i have no problem with ze nano, since my webs go 40km t2  and my jams sit at about 15. how do you do what you do so poorly? fixed that for you, now it makes sense last time i checked, non capitals can de aggro and jump, non-supercaps can dock and hug stations, and fast ships do what fast ships do, run away. now if you believe there needs to be a contract for pvp where both sides must stay on the field till total hell death and cannot disengage, your a very confused child of warfare from the enlightment age, hardly the type of role play for internet spaceshipsis this char, pithecantropus, a main char? or just a forum warrior. i can always set up a demonstration for you on my very realistic character if youd like"
"missles bad for pvp?hmm seems be is doing like 99% of their killing in missle boatsanti nano = limited to minnie ships?i don't think so.try engaging a sesnsor jam and neuting fitted bs and you nano ship won't be able to do a thing...; on the other hand i'll guess that will offer an opportunity to nerf caldari for their jamming and domi's for their neuting capacityinstead of whining people should - fit their ship decently- think more tactical instead of i-blob-so-i-win- start working as a team instead of looking for individual killboard \"honour\" whoring"
"once again the nano fans proves their amazing capacity to fill their ears with their thumbs and shout the same craptastic arguments, to avoid having to anwser what they have no argument to defend.the issue is not with preventing a nanoship to kill you. the issue is with actually holding down long enough to kill it.remember the days of the 95% resist scorpion? shouting that it was fine because it couldn't kill you if you had a good tank only made you an idiot. that hasn't changed."
"now tell me how a vaga would run if you can keep it webbed for like 100kmimo that is more than enough time to kill it or are you lacking skills that bad. i agree with needa and some of the others. cut the whining and play the game"
"sweet jesus, you put cyno gens on vagas and you hawt drop 45 carriers onto the nano gang, lag+web+stupidity=dead nanos, comeon now i thought you knew that already"
"welp."
"disagreed!!"
"your perception is greatly flawed and far overblown. lol.this community has had enough with nanos. it's not about the ships we all fly, the tactics used, the counters, the blobs, or the costs. it's about the pure advantage big nanodweebs have over the rest of eve. period. why are you so afraid of a nerf? afraid of changes? eve has changed time and time again, and that is what keeps the game going. the pot has settled and nano's are on top, its time to mix it up again, rebalance, and make this game yet again best for the entire community. i'm all for constant rebalances, otherwise we'll lean too far to one side and topple. do you want an eve with a majority of nano ships and nano counter? no. no. i hope you're not that naive."
"i just wanted to quote this because it made me laugh.i disagree, nanos are powerful, but like jade said, tactically, you're fairly limited with a nano gang. if you have a well balanced non-nano gang against a nano gang of the same size the nano ships are pretty much relegated to picking off stragglers. with non-nano blobs bringing appropriate anti-nano defense nano ships will generally run. the only reason nanos will get decent kills is because they exploit holes in planning and defense.nanos really only have the advantage in that its way easier to put together a homogeneous fleet that can do one thing really well. non-nano/mixed gangs however require a lot more organizing to achieve balance, so naturally their ripe for being exploited by very focused gangs of nanos/stealth bombers/snipers or whatever their particular hole is."
"if nanoships hacs, recons  had the same disengagement possibilty of battleships, why would anyone fly them???"
"i agree with this, because it describes very well what happens novadays all around the universe. if you know that a nano-gang is coming you have a varity of options. 1.  you can't build up something that nanos would fear....so you stay docked2.  you build up a even bigger blop then the nano blop which is coming.... so they won't engage you or burn away from you after a few secs3.  you build up a gang of nano ships yourself, which is though possible not realy an option for the every day use in defending your home systems ... and even if you can build up something like this, the original nano gang will maybe not engage at all or if they engage you will get only singel shipswhat is this leading to at the end ? in some cases you won't get a fight at all and if you get a fight the you can kill only one or two of them until the rest burns away or warps off.i'm not realy sure what to do about this. just nerf nanos is not a good option, because its fun flying them and they are a good strategic option. on the other hand it is absolutely no fun to defend against them ! and this is the point when i think that ccp should look at this, add some counters or make the ones already existing more effective or whatever. because the people on the defending side have in most cases just no fun with this at all. don't get me wrong there should be no anti nano i-win button, but you should have the possibility to takle the whole gang down and kill them all if you do it right."
"so long as it's not a prize for who can blob the hardest and the most often, i'm all for it."
"i support more discussion in respect to this.i believe there is presently a gap between the storyline published by ccp and the results of player actions. it is a disconnect between the massive power of the capsuleers and what actually goes on in the empires.note: a small part of this gap was closed with the recent fw chronicles, showing more of the 'impact' of capsuleers on the empires.however!i endorse closing this gap even more. i leave the 'how' up to future imaginings of ccp and our community. but, i believe having an impact on the world is a vital way to provide a goal more captivating than a bay of shiny ships, or mountains of isk. let's take the potential collaborative outcomes of corporations and alliances to the next level!"
"supportin"
"i agree it's a tall order, but these are the sorts of things ccp is saying they want to hear from this process, and it's certainly something that would take eve in a new and good direction. basing the story on the actions of players would really energize the player pvp conflicts as well as interest in the rp storylines.thanks for the supports."
"i don't think you'll find anyone willing to support a nerf to the sleipnir.as for what goes in the nh lowslots - whatever combination of damage mods, damage control, nano mods and lowslot sensor boosters/eccm you want. dc, triple bcs and lowslot eccm would be my generally favoured choice. but i'm sure some people would want to counter the high mass and low speed of the nh."
"/signednh should get a boost of pg around 150 base  and change of the useless explo radius bonus to explo veloc bonus"
"to increase the use of the nighthawk as a viable pvp platform this change is required.the comments of certain members on the board were idiotic, lazy any non-representative of a vast majority of players. while other items are passed with a smaller positive reaction, usually spread among certain groups, this issue is too important not to be passed up to ccp, over the top of the csm.if important issues can not be brought up \"direct\" to ccp, and can be changed really during the next down time, then ccp is only using the csm as a pretty thick buffer of white noise, while the mods at ccp can continue on their own path without having to a  tell us what they're doing or b  tell the csm if issues they're debating are already being looked at and being redesigned.okay, one caldari issue has been voted no at a csm meeting, with pretty poor excuses for saying no in the first place, and this issue can not be brought up again in this iteration of the csm.oh well, i hope the next board will be more representative of eve as a whole, including the professions and races.sorry for the rambling nature of this post. i've been reading the whole thread while the account has been inactive, but this issue and rejection has actually convinced me to start my account sooner than expected so i can post in this thread.ships of the same type across the races should be equal but only in terms of capability to perform the role they are designed to fill. otherwise what's the point?having a lame duck ship that costs over 100m isk is a pretty fat lame duck, even if with a fully trained pilot it can go through level 4's very fast, it still would be nice to see it on the pvp battlefield."
"problem: there is no indication whether a locked target is a friend or foe. i reckon that this problem might not be one which disturbs a lot of people, as most people only lock hostiles with the intention of bringing doom. however, i used to fly combat fitted logistic ships and it happens time to time that both the offensive modules and the logistic modules are running at the same time, preferably on different targets, of course. there is nothing more annoying than figuring out that you have been shield boosting the primary target all the time. this problem is the most serious when the enemies are flying the same kinds of ships your gang is flying, which happens a lot nowadays, with all these nano gangs. so, i would like to have an overview color indicator on the target icons on top of the screen:- either take the target's overview icon and display it in one of the corners of the target icon- or take the target's overview background color and use that color to make a border around the target icon"
"being one of his wingmen, i fully support this idea! he keeps shooting meg and repping my enemies. "
"i agree, make it flash blue for incoming offensive weapons, like shield transporters, repping drones, remote sensor boosters, ect ect.there's a lot"
"excellent idea...and while the devs are working with this section of code to implement this excellent idea, maybe they'll also be able to fix the very annoying situation where locked targets change order when another is locked/unlocked/destroyed."
"the op makes a good point, but this is a great one. this bug is horribly aggravating."
"i could support an overhaul of the evemail.perhaps it could have different divisions like our hangars and wallets. with the ceo controlling access to different divisions.i realize it would mean some additional programming but would be well worth it."
"support this.i used to run a corp and this was an issue, mind you we were a small corp. so i can imagine how big an issue thsi is with large corps."
"supported"
"i am in a relatively small corp but even our pos mails are a pain. fully support this one"
"agreed"
"atleast the damn thing shouldn't flash every time you get automatic message"
"i completely agree. drones are a main source of damage and it would be great to have mods to increase their damage just like other weapons, and their tracking speed. it'd be exactly like fitting on damage mods for your own turrets.though i think the +25 bandwidth mod needs to be looked at a bit. consider the smallest ship that should be able to benefit from it  cruiser?  and give it a pg requirement in-line with the highest level weapons. it would allow players to add up to 125 bandwidth while completely sacrificing their own weapon systems, allowing them heavy drones on any ship, while severely limiting their own capabilities. perhaps even consider making versions of it like afterburners. frigate, cruiser, and battleship versions, so you can't have a battleship apply two to be able to use heavies while taking almost no pg hits at all, while this also allows frigates to increase their abilities as well.as for the increasing drone bay, i recommend a rig as well as low-slot module. kinda like the cargo expander modules and the cargo optimization rigs."
"to further expand on my ideas to make this a bit more viable for all ships:limited auxiliary control link irequires ~9 pg, ~15 cpu, high slot+5 mbit/s bandwidthrequires advanced drone interfacing i*note*: this is a frigate class module.auxiliary control link irequires ~175 pg, ~25 cpu, high slot+25 mbit/s bandwidthrequires advanced drone interfacing iiusing the limited auxiliary control link i on the ishkur, iirc the only \"drone boat\" frigate with the largest drone bay and the most bandwidth, with it's 4 high slots this would only give it an additional +20 bandwidth at max, thus enabling it to field 4 medium drones and a single small drone, while completely sacrificing it's bonuses to hybrid turrets.with 3 150mm railgun iis and a stab ii, this thing fits 94 dps without it's 5 light drones at all skills level 5. 193 dps w/ drones.with 4 limited auxiliary control link is, it's dps is: 147.the reason for allowing cruisers and above to fit a +25 model is simple: a few hacs can already achieve 125 bandwidth, such as the ishtar. allowing other ships to match the ishtar while significantly lowering their own dps via sacrificing their own bonuses for weapons seems like a decent trade-off for this to take up 2-3 high slots. for battleships it's the same. you'll be unlikely to see this used for many ships though, but for drone boats like the arbitrator, myrmidon and vexor this is a nice little module. can also be useful for a lot of battleships which are only able to field light drones. however, they'd also require losing a low-slot or rig to be able to use this properly by increasing their drone bay capacity."
"suported.also, webber drones should be able to catch nanoships."
"/supportedmore drone modules are needed"
"why do you think i included light and medium webber drones? ideally speaking, you could launch a rack of light webbers, slowly swap out the drones for mediums individually since the ship is now slow enough for medium webbers to catch , and then do the same with heavies. it'd only be viable on a serious drone boat domi/ishtar , but you could get the equivalent of an x5 web on anything slower than a ceptor."
"aye!!!"
"drones are my least favorite weapon platform, but i definitely support this.as far as the auxiliary control unit, i think it should have 3 sizes, one for each ship size. +5mb/s for frigates/destroyers with pg requirements in line with small turrets.  probably lower than a turret, but comparable  +10 mb/s for cruisers/bcs and +25mb/s for bss. i'd like to see these have +drone bay/-cargo capacity equal to the bandwidth with the t2 version having double the drone bay increase."
"i was thinking of having three sizes as well and having the cruiser module be the +10, but then i looked and realized that this would create a lot of problems. mainly you'll be able to have cruisers with 130 mbit/s bandwidth. it isn't even, while +5 and +25 are far better options to deal with.for example: the arbitrator has four high slots. with four +10s, that would give them 90 bandwidth, a rather terrible number. you can field 3 heavy drones, 1 medium and 1 light to use it completely, but looking at how cruisers and above tend to have their drone bandwidth, it just doesn't fit in properly. a +25 module would be far better, especially for battlecruisers. a lot of battlecruisers have 25, 50 and 75. if you increased these by 10 you'd get some rather weird numbers. if i'm in a drake and want to use medium drones, i have to sacrifice 3 slots dedicated to these, as well as a low-slot drone bay expander, or even a rig slot. and that'll give me 55 bandwidth. a +25 version would help prevent a lot of strange numbered bandwidth as well as useless amounts left over. you still need to field a drone bay expander, so this wont be something ideal you put on every ship out there.also, we already have a module that increases drone bay size. it's a low slot module that is similar to a cargo expander and should work the same way. it severely limits what sort of ships can actually benefit from these increases to bandwidth, but it's a balancing act. +10 modules would just make for wacky bandwidth, while +5 and +25 are far more even.these should not increase the drone bay by a percentage. that works for cargo holds, but for those you have any number of items that can be put inside. for these? it should be +25 and +50, because drones always come in sizes of 5, 10 and 25. if you increase it by a pecentage you might come up with 17.5, which is *half* of a light drone."
"supporting this...the first time i had an exotic dancer in cargo made me kill more than 80 ships before dieing.edit:support buttan!"
"i always see this as part of a reply in a thread like this, and as the full fledged carebear that i am  i, as a player, have no interest in pvp combat  i can tell you i am right there with you in saying not only no, but hell no to a \"no pvp zone\"... if i want to be totally safe i will play solitaire... but there needs to be \"punishment\" for bad behavior... transferable kill rights is a good thing, as are some of the other ideas that have been put forward here and in other threads, but just like the \"death penalty\" in wow  wife plays it  is minimal at best, it is still greater then the \"punishment\" in eve for many \"criminal activities\"... i want to see the punishment require a heck of a lot more time and effort to counter... can flipping for example, a minor change... steal from someone else's can, and you currently get flagged for the owner of the can... instead how about a global flag... more often then not, the can flipper is looking to pew pew with someone, why not others that like pew pew... oh, wait, then the can flipper may have to fight with someone that can fight back... bad idea, we can't have that...suicide gank someone, the \"bad guy\" gets a security hit, they pop into low sec  or 0.0  and rat a while and their standing is right back up there... perhaps if the security changes  as it relates to concord and only concord  should be multiplied by the posted security level of the system  0.0 to 1.0  so no amount of ratting in 0.0 space will fix that security loss... make the security hit  punishment  harder to counter and make it big enough to be punishment... and not a wow style \"you feel bad for 10 minutes\"..."
"see what happens?i had originally meant for this to be about pve/storyline content. a way to make eve more fun for the care bear population.but you play \"word association\" with a care bear, and they hear \"pirate\"... and the post-traumatic kicks in, and ideas for preventing harassment and terrorism spring forth."
"i'm a pirate/griefer/faction warrior and love to can flip, but i'm all for making the more peaceful side of eve more interesting. the thing that draws me to the pvp side is the infinite variability and ability to match wits with others. it would be more interesting if there was more to the carebear than mining and misisons which are just too repetitive for me. maybe the ability for hostile take overs? ability to build more customized items kind of akin to second life?anything that adds a little more creativity and variability to the game is good for everyone.cheers to you carebears from your biggest fans."
"agree, there needs to be a nice expansion that provides things the builders, miners, scientist, haulers, etc be more appealing up front and provides tools farther down the road.an industrial character should have more than a few options open to them as a character.the end goal of the industrial character shouldn't be a hulk, freighter, or rorqual.as jade has said where are the converted freighters that are factory ships?how about truly mobile labs or being able to establish personal or corporate labs in npc stations where they establish an office  make it cost a bit more isk  so that the new corporations and players don't have to wait weeks for the big boys month long projects on titan & battleship bps to finish."
"stfu im tired of carebears crying you could givemars a ****in ocean with the ammount of tears you cry ccp gave carebear's cloaks you dont need any thing else"
"i dont make approven of this!!! hi. my nam is adam. i was to be make enter of this topics cos i wana see carebears fixd cos dum carebears gots it 2 good imo i mean where da fibbs is the risk in misiosn? tradin? buildin? all dese carebers gets fat of isk cos they not los ships this is not balancewhere is honor of to be do play game with not be the risk? where is honor in do play of npc and manufcuter?there no honor!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!imoimo ccp shud boost pvp and piratin cos it men risk 4 carebears imo imo thye shud chang highsec so u can still kill peeps imothis would be honor keep your replies to a single post. 8 consecutive posts of 1 line spam replies is not necessary. navigator"
"giving my own thread the thumbs up"
"necromancy much?"
"get the hell out of my thread, cheese****"
"well, that explains that."
"it would be nice is ccp had a system to allow use to see that the bugs are reported and either in queue or assigned to a team for fixing them. this visibility would help in reducing multiple reports of the same bug and allow us to see that ccp is actively engaged in working on some issues.in example the invention implants have been broken for over a year - is ccp even working on these? is there a plan to compensate the people that have these non-working implants? if there was a central place to track issues them we would know that they were either being addressed or where to go to trade these back to ccp.even the most basic of project management software can output the basic items needed to easily post on a page and publish that would show the issues are being addressed.it would allow for the basic principals of customer service to be met - they would show that they have listened to the customer and have taken their input to investigate/correct the issue."
"this would go a long way towards alleviating frustrations in the subscriber base and increasing customer satisfaciton.best regards,windjammer"
"think about how many fewer bug reports would need to be looked at if we knew about the known issues... and how many \"testers\" would be available if the reproduction steps for a bug were hard to figure out/reproduce..."
"sounds good to me."
"especially considering rkk has been doing so poorly in the taking over eve project.i vote to sack the ceo."
"sorry.if you want your shares back you should pay/refund those who have them.other way to do it: go \"broke\", close shop, make rkk2.big no."
"let's make a comparison to 'rl' stock markets; the company cannot forcefully recover the shares they have sold. *however* another company can acquire enough shares on the open market to force a hostile take-over which, once conditions are met, does force the remaining shareholders to give up the shares they own.there may be some merit in seeking better market options here, but the op suggestion is not, to my mind, an acceptable one currently. sidebar: would eve need to create a 'take-over panel', 'sec' etc ... ;-piz"
"the presence of alts unfortunately marginalises the rl analogy, for in eve all i would have to do is transfer my current shareholding  99.9% of the company  to my alt and claim a hostile takeover.this idea, whilst i look forward  one day  to eve having a fully functioning stock market, is not one to complement that - it is, as i said in the op, as a mechanic to rectify mistakes made way back when by people not currently even in game anymore.i certainly appreciate a response based on the facts, cheers."
"so what you're saying is \"nerf forum idiots\"? i agree, heartily, but i don't think that's really up to the csm to decide."
"the op needs to stop posting"
"the op has a point.it makes no sense for any individual empire to completely lack any sorts of counters for a particular strategy the enemy can employ.and the \"nano-issue\" is just one of the problems... but the greatest one at this time, so it's over-used as example.p.s. op : you forgot to support your own idea"
"i was mainly being a sarcastic arse by typing up this post and expected to have a lot of trolls come on and eat it up. didn't get as many as i thought i would, but still the problem solved itself. those who understood what i was trying to say deserve recognition. so thanks akita t.and pssh. you trolls need to l2troll."
"i dont think it's about balance this is about lowering the barif you train off race for a specific ability and so on you get that ability as a return on your time investment there are no insta skills in this game nor should there beeve allows much more freedom that wow because in wow certain classes are trapped your huggin pilot is a huggin pilot and nothing else . eve allows players to be anything so long as they put the time in . if a player has recons 5 then he has recons 5 for any race cruiser he trains to 5 so you do get a bit of a freebie there minus weapons training of course . it's not like you have to train minmatar recons or gallente recons on top of cruiser 5.so no . also this system makes players realize how precious there time is and not wasting it on non essentials . all your really asking for is for ccp to lower the bar and effectively erase the time investments of many players to make life easier on a few .too many people who buy chars all of a sudden find out \"omg if i want anything new i have to put in the effort\" . sorry train it like everybody else did ."
"again. not the point i'm trying to convey, which seems to be beyond your comprehension. i guess i'll try to dumb it down a bit.every race should have a counter to every other. does that mean that every race needs a bonus to webbers to stop nano? no. but currently not every race has a viable means to take out another race's primary strategy. there needs to be a bit more balancing as far as some select areas go.but again. this post wasn't made in all serious ness, so let sleeping dogs lie."
"i am amarri want a nanoship...i train a hac and invent a setup that works for the application i'm attempting.this is not a hard theory, and ok fine, i can't web from 40k or jam from 190k with my recons, but i can erase your cap with a recon, and you can't. fact is, with a bit of creativity and intuition, you can configure a ship from any race to excel in any almost any role, and if you want the extra recon hax abilities, well, it's an investment in time to train for. no support."
"i agree with the op. each race should be complete in its own right when it comes to the ability to pvp. \"train another ship if you need to fit role x\" should be valid...but only within the same race. it would be great, especially with factional warfare, seeing entire fleets of same race ships. some races, such as caldari, have problems doing this effectively atm and bear looking at. until then, i'll keep flying mostly matari."
"your trying very hard to make the point that you should have the counter to everything in one neat little package and that goes against the very fabric of the game . sorry . no .even if we gave curses every recon bonus possible you would need to train the relevant ecm skills to employ them or should we do away with them too?the point people are trying to make is if you play one race then you have to learn to employ those strengths and compensate by tactis for the weaknesses ."
"i see your point, but i do not agree.the issue is that once everybody has a viable counter to any situation, then people will cry about the one that has the most effective one and you are again at the starting point, just you wasted some game changes without effect.i think there should be cross-bred ships introduced, like a shield tanking drone boat because caldari stole some gallente tech etc, but that would make one hell of balancing them in the end and also remove the race distinction we have now."
"dude, he said it was not a truly serious post. so most of us citizens shrugged and moved on. but damn, apparently you have a point to make."
"have to disagree here. the races are well balanced in my opinion not all races share the same advantages but the overall balance is fine. the more standardised the game becomes the less dynamic pvp experience, and the less vivd the gaming experience. thumbs down!!"
"most people who have run a corp for a long time will have a sickening number of old votes in their sanctionable -ened  actions that can only be likened to trying to open up your assets list after buying one item in every station in the game.while my ocd likes a little bit of vote history, i don't need to know that i unlocked my rifter bpo in february 2006.so my proposal has two possibilitiesthe ability to delete each old vote manuallya time-based auto-purge"
"manual deletion i'm all for, automatic deletion i'm against. i like being able to look up my first war, however old it may be."
"similar to my suggestion here so definitely gets my vote  manual deletion, not auto ."
"hii'm playing eve about 3 months already mostly missions and some mining .recently i read the stuff about the functional war and the militia operations .what bothers me it is the rewards of going to militia which i think it is not a real compensation on the inconvenient of traveling via other territories and exposing to hostile actions .also , which kind of soldier is bring his personal weaponwhen going to the army ;-  ????militia force should give the pilot a fully fitted ship including all the ammo he needs ...there should be a special army skils to fly an army ship which is u get them when u join militia , but u can't use then outside .a reward system needs to take place like a weekly fee or other kind like lp's or bigger standings raise .this reward system need to be more clear for anyone who consider joining the army .this way pilot who join the army will feel pride of serving and more will want to join .btw .. i heard some ware about a megathron navy issue .. :- "
"no.1. factional, not functional2. militia != army3. the main rewards of the participating to militias is fun, fun for sneaking by enemy in a crappy t1 ship, completing the mission for the agent and getting the hell of there, fun for blowing other stuff up because the purpose of the fw is:a. not to add more missions, but to add a chance to pvp to those who are interested but at an easier lvl than mercs, pirates and 0.0 and b. to spread people from high sec space towards low sec space and 0.0  pvpers joins militia and fights, traders brings items to the area, builder makes items, etc. "
"i'm down with rewards for fw, but this thread is doing it wrong.ideas i'd support:occupancy benefits:-stations in system are claimed by occupying faction--faction losing occupancy doesn't get benefits from standings they normally would, such as refine rates, jumpclones etc.--faction winning occupancy gets benefits such as refine rates, jumpclones, lowered repair costs--market orders modified-victory points store--similiar to lp store, modified to be more geared to pvp mods/implants--accept amarr tags gained in amarr plex'sand any similiar, non-game breaking mechanic to give a slight edge to an occupying force. i might even go so far as to propose that certain pos modules be allowed for the occupying, but i don't know if i want the nightmare that is jumpbridges coming to my low-sec. in fact, yeah, no, forget that all together. keep 0.0 out of my counterstrike in space."
"the first part is a bug i think. if im in fw and set the overview setting to show all in war with my militia, but dont show neutrals, than the overview is empty even if im swarmed by wartargets!!!!i think thats a bug and need to be fixed, but maybe that should be so, than is a bad idea and should be changed.the second thing is the chats local, or any other....it sux if u enter into a busy system like jita what is laggy too, and than u need to scroll trough 600 peoples to get an info about if there are wartargets. the list of players should be able to be sorted by statuses standings  and maybe in ideal case even filtered.third thing is the inbuilt scanner. it takes the shipclasses if i set that should use overview setting but not the standing filters, so that should be changed too.sorry if i wrote not too clear, my english is not the best so pls correct if u think so"
"personally local everywhere shouldn't be instantly populated,  i mean the chat window, not the actual local space .on the overview settings bugs, i fully agree. in fact there are some combinations you can't have because it affects everything else, even if their own box is ticked. prime example - neutrals, gates and stations. if you don't want to see neutrals in overview, then you won't see gates or stations either.so you can turn off alliance, corp and gang members, from overview, but then you may not see your wrecks on overview either.i wish it could differentiate between ships and pilots properly. for example. i want to see neutral wrecks and wrecks owned by neutrals, but i don't want to see neutral pilots.so far though, we've been living with the foibles of the overview for so long, i'd be surprised  pleasantly so  if they got it right next time.edit: support your topic as well"
"i may despise xaen for the condescending manner in which he speaks about ccp, but when it comes to the ui, i'll definitely take his side."
"faction ships are essentially named ships. they are not superior to tech ii versions, but are not inferior to tech i versions, therefore the price of these should reflect a middle-point between the two ships.as it is now there are various ships out there that are faction, though adding at *least* faction battlecruisers would be a wonderful idea. though before that is done, it would be a good idea to lower the price of these ships to be more in-line with their purpose. named modules."
"i would endorse this but with the provision that ccp make contests to write or flesh out the eve universe by the players i dont mean that i can write how dirtee became galente president or how she killed the amarr solo in a navy comet . but select writtings could be used to fill in the gaps so long as they dont affect ccp's major plans . there is a talented user base here that is a huge resource for creative material .maybe even give players the option to write detailed origin stories for theyre chars and a database for them . like how dirtee girl once the quafe girl was replaced when video surfaced of her ......nvm"
"i agree and disagree. agree learning skills are boring but contend that this is the equivilant of grinding any other mmo they have likely ever tried. if they have an experiance of grinding relentless hours killing the same spawn over and over again to get the really cool weapon that drops 1 in 1000 tries then learning skills should not be a problem. no matter what mmo i have personally played i always looked in aww of those experianced and older players whom have the coolest stuff. hell i have been at this game for a year now and still surf the sell orders wondering how in the hell people have 30 bil to drop on a crappy tech 2 bpo. to balance this void ccp has continued to raise the starting sp lvl....kinda like a middle class tax cut so there is not a great casm of time between grinding lvl 1 missions and super passive fitting a drake over heating your tech 2 webber and watching a 12km/s mach pilot cry. life is not fair niether is eve get over it."
"how much are 60 day time cards going for at the minute?"
"re: replacing alternates - i'm happy for arithron to take my place if needed when i can't attend, we seemed to have similar thoughts while campaigning. personally i'd rather be involved, but asking the csm to have a meeting in a bad time for everyone on the off chance i am needed is ridiculous. the only reason i brought it up is as i am the 2nd alternate, there is the possibility that 2 csm's may know well in advance they cannot make a meeting and a suitable time for the meeting could be organized with that in mind."
"while i agree that locking threads that have already been answered would be a good idea, i'm not so certain for ideas that have been taken up and rejected. they are obviously issues of concern otherwise the issue thread wouldn't have been raised or received as much support as it did to come to the attention of the csm in the first place.ideally what would be required would be a pair of new forum's, one locked down so that only ccp/csm could post in them  though anyone could read these posts . in this forum you would have the issues that the csm have agreed to pass onto ccp for discussion.for examplethread title - skill queue functionalitypost 1 - csm template that was submitted to ccp for the issue.post 2 - official ccp response to the issue.the second forum would also be restricted to csm for starting threads  like the announcement forum is restricted to ccp for thread starting , this would be where the issues that didn't make it past csm would go. again, there would be a standard template for thisfor examplethread title - large hull exploration vesselspost one - voting results, explanation as to why issue was rejected.from here, people would be able to address specific concerns the csm had about the issue and possibly, with solid constructive arguements, convince the csm to look at the issue again.once this was in place, then you'd be able to lock the original assembly hall thread with a link post to the new thread. this would also make it easier to tie up duplicated issues as again a link to the relevant thread could be posted and the duplicate thread locked."
"you have, in fact, effectively stated what we asked for, however the current forum software does not permit it thus we are stuck with what tools we have available to us currently for the foreseeable future.iz"
"two things. one, we already have such a forum - eve information portal, right at the top. can they not replicate that functionality? two, this is yet another reason we need real forum software see my sig . i was using phpbb boards before eve was in beta, and a 14 year old forum admin with no coding experience could set up a limited-access forum on that without difficulty. a multinational company employing hundreds of computer geeks has no excuse. they should have used real forum software from day 1 and it's open-source too, so it's not like it'd cost them anything , but to have not changed it over since then is an embarrassment, and it's costing them functionality yet again."
"after reading the meeting chat, its quite clear how jade is on a mission with only his alliance in mind. he claims this about alliances in fw...he acts like rp alliances are lining up around the corner to get into fw.he presses to have this issue pushed to be fixed asap by ccp. he's in his chair to play for his own alliance... quite selfish.no, lets not wait for fw to work out the kinks, lets get this done so he can join his alliance and pewpew noobs.oh, and to all the nano lovers out there, check this...they know ccp is going to do something? looks like a nano nerf is already here."
"rearranged:csm meeting 7. sunday 20th july. 16:00 hours eve time.agenda: announcements: 1. response from ccp on future live meeting timescales 2. response from replacement alternates  +invitation to channel/mailing list csm raised issues  to be submitted in templated form to csm mailing list by 18:00 hours friday 11th july. 1. the crane needs a powergrid increase2. nighthawk is terrible - needs a powergrid increase3. improved wardec support functionality in fw 4. rigged ships into cargo - please allow this5. remove agent qualities 6. dynamic agent qualities 7. fw impact on eve storyline 8. local chat as intel tool 9. un-nerf the bio lengh!10. gallente ewar ships need a boostpopular issue  biggest unaddressed assembly hall issue  will be added after csm raised issues. 1. tbaaob  any other business   additions can be submitted prior 18:00 hours friday 11th july 1. tba2. tba***all csm delegates and alternates are invited to attend."
"still awaiting meeting minutes . that's handled by ccp isn't it?"
"the crane needs a powergrid increase"
"2 days later .....maybe they run in a different timezone up in iceland ??"
"i thought about this last night as game time was 21xx  late night  and figured i'd give them this morning as it appears its now end of day wednesday in iceland. anyone want to take odds on thursday or friday? /sigh"
"of which week?"
"have you all looked in the csm meeting minutes on this site? i have, it's not there, but i wanted to make sure i was not missing something "
"\"eurotrash\" is a term almost exclusively used by us conservatives. you are probably very proud of your flavor of \"capitalism\" which is so exquisitely sound that your economy needs a daily injection average of 2 billion usd of foreign funds in order to avoid your sand castle to fall apart. but you would have known that provided would you enjoy any experience about operating with decent amounts of $$$, what automatically places you in the overcrowded realm of peeps who talk about societies, money & politics yet are too poor to abstract themselves from any of these at any given time and don't have the means to try something else somewhere else even if they wished to. for example, your military budget is bigger than the military budgets of all other nations on earth combined. yet your troops still intermittently lack services & gear. a significant portion of this budget is allocated to r&d projects, which in the purest outsourcing tradition, end in the wallet of the military industrial lobby and its plethora of privately-owned businesses. so you can get back to me trumpeting the virtues of your system the day you find out for yourself which is the % of combined direct & indirect taxes your people pays which directly contributes on short or medium term to your daily life quality. fyi, scheme like these are called \"indirect subventions\". so talk about socialism... the post you refer to was deemed to explain that nowadays, you can get a bullet in the head for peanuts as easy in the us as former wapa countries, when it wasn't like that before. since most individuals don't have the luxury to wander around with bodyguards or armored cars, it's the majority who suffers from precarious social conditions. the difference between the systems under the perspective of individual physical integrity was that in wapa countries, as long you didn't mess with politics, you were safe, unlike the us and other capitalist nations where it all boils down to being in the wrong spot at the wrong moment.funnily enough, the country which enjoys the best ratio of wealth management vs population is switzerland, a tiny country managing 33% of the world's assets. did you ever visit switzerland ? it's a nice country, where citizens enjoy such a wide array of state benefits that from a us conservative perspective you could as well tag them as communists...get back to me the day your capabilities extend beyond the local kfc"
"the two csm forums need a sticky with clearcut step-by-step information on how to get an issue raised by the csm.ex.- make a post in the assembly hall with the topic containing [issue] and then what you want. ex. [issue] faster skill training of the test server- now the forum goes wild and discusses the issue.- at the next csm meeting we go over all the issue posts and vote on how they show be prioritized, so that we are ready to discuss them at the next meeting with ccp- then we go to iceland for bree and discuss the issue with ccpsomething like that, just how the process really is :- "
"another sticky would also be one with all the meeting minutes."
"where is the mention of this issue in csm minutes - you said that it was brought to ccp? did you lie to us? did all the csm who said they will bring this issue to ccp lied to us or am i confused?i think that some explanation is in order."
"i realize manny of you think this is without merit at all but i feel this should be added also.backstory inconsistency/scaner modification"
"noah  ccp  indicated that ccp was aware that battleships with jumpdrives would become the ultimate ship, and to this end black ops ships were pre-nerfed.andrew  csm jade constantine  noted that the range of the drive and the presence of cynojammers made the jumpdrive capability virtually useless. another problem is the limited amount of fuel that can be carried.bane  csm bane glorioius  added to this that due to the fuel taking up large amounts of cargo space, loot from successful operations often cannot be hauled back to friendly territory.noah  ccp  commented that a fuel bay can be added, so that fuel no longer takes up cargo space, or that specialized haulers could perhaps be used to haul the loot back or bring in supplies. ccp will also look at the issue with cynojammers. jump range might be looked into but is of a lower concern, otherwise black ops ships might become too competitive with capital ships."
"if covert ops cynos could be lit in cyno jammed systems then the black ops could have a role. they are supposed to be the ships that can jump in behind enemy lines but cannot right now."
"i concur, as long as the new fuel bay idea doesn't allow too many ships to bridge in. one black ops should not be able to bring in enough ships to drop the system. it should require a group."
"shouldn't we be looking at using less capitals?i'm all for people using 800 million isk ships with less tank and firepower than a real battleship. what exactly is the problem?"
"and the cyno jammer would still not allow normal jump ships to enter thus protecting from total invasion. and yes limit the number of covert ships that can bridge in either via fuel or just a set number."
"just a thought, but if you include a fuel bay, why not have one type of fuel personal jumping and another type for bridging, it would mean having to manage your fuel rather than just filling it."
"to expand on this part: with the loot recollection issue, i recommended that deep space transports  e.g. impel, mastodon, etc.  be able to use the covert jump bridge specifically, and not blockade runners. deep space transports are generally underused and blockade runners don't really need any more help when it comes to evading people. wasn't originally my idea, though."
"i thought it was a great idea though - deep space transports being covert jump bridgeable via black ops would absolutely rock."
"agreed this would give those ships a role much like the kc-135 tanker in use today by many militaries."
"having recently spent some time on singularity to get a feel for blackops, i strongly support taking a look at them. the cargo space is a problem if you are not using a sin  or redeemer  due to having to carry ammo/cap booster charges, isotopes, and loot. a slight increase in fuel bay size and/or making deep space transports indeed capable of using the portal should be looked at as well. concerning allowing covert cynos in cynojammed systems - i cannot decide. on the one hand a cynojammed system should in my opinion favour the resident  defending  alliance, and bridging in 30 falcons before the fleet jumps into the defender's camp could make it a bit too easy.not an easy balancing task. i look forward to seeing black ops being more attractive for sure."
"i'm absolutely in favour of both the seperate fuel bay and the covert cyno change. the fuel bay is self explanitory but as someone has already said the black ops is supposed to be a ship capable of jumping behind enemy lines but with the proliferation of cyno jammers it's nearly useless, plus people are unwilling to train the cynosural field training still to 5 atm because it offers no real tangable benefits that are worth the skill training time.if you simply make it so cyno jammers do not affect covert generators then you have given black ops a new lease of life. you then have the ability to move ships behind enemy lines but you are still unable to move ships capable of affecting sovereignty into the system."
"how exactly is someone meant to fly a black ops even if it has fuel bay? while it sounds good, and anything that improves the cargo capacity of my hauler redeemer is a positive, i still cannot conceive why i would want to fly a black ops in1. large scale warfare2. mid sized romaing gangs3. small scale hit and runs etcthe fundamental issues with black ops is that you got a droneship, a ew boat, a laserboat that lacks cap to mwd out of a large bubble etc. its too spread a random mix that its best to redesign these ships with a pvp role in mind and not some theoretical stuff that sounds good on paper but in reality nobody will use.give these ships a proper real world role that actually encorages people to use them in pvp."
"this."
"i'm positive about these, as i think the widow looks like sex on a stick.i fully agree that the all singing all dancing pwnmobile is not what anyone wants. i'd still like to see a ship that isn't just outclassed by a t1 equivalent though. that's a bit depressing. not sure what the fix is - i'd settle for some scan res though. i like the idea of improved jumping/jumpbridging capability. as an aside, how about actually allowing covops cynos in highsec?"
"this is a wonderful idea. simple, opens the game to stealth missions deep into enemy territory and gives carebears another way to actively help with tactical issues."
"i fully support the inclusion of one of the two types of transport being able to be cov-ops cyno'edlogically it should be the blockade runner. one of the arguments against the normal dst being that the cargo bay you can get on one of those is extreme and may render a black ops squadron as a whole over powered.on the flip side a dst being zipped around by a black ops would really bring new meaning to \"combat logistics\"."
"the fuel bay and deep space transports using black ops jb's is an excellent idea and would solve 90% of this issue.we should change this discussion to verifing that exploits of this mechanic are not currently in someone's mind.../me points at bane and his goon cohorts"
"will be raising this on sunday 13th."
"when you do - we need a 'tug' class ship.why worry about cargo when you can just push the things through space. the amount of mass you can move could be dependant on skill level where each level is equivalent about 100,000,000 kg or, roughly, one average bs."
"noah  ccp  indicated ccp<U+FFFD>s awareness of the player frustrations with the ~6 hour duration skill trainings. however, ccp strongly believes that switching skill training is an activity that encourages players to log into the game and play. a skill queue would be a possible solution, if there would be limitations, such as a limited amount of skills being trained, or that only skills of a total up to a certain duration can be stacked into the queue.alex  csm bane glorious  noted that players have also suggested a dual training mechanic, where players can pick a primary and secondary skill, which both train at half speed. as soon as the skill with the shortest duration is finished, the other skill will train at full speed.it was concluded that ccp will look into a solution for this issue."
"i really have to object to the notion that having to change skill training encourages people to play. it encourages them to log in, sure, but only to change their skill. people play, but only because they want to play, not because they have to switch a skill training. giving us a shallow queue  1-2 extra items  at least solves the problem awkwardly timed skills whilst still not giving many people the ability to just set up their skills and leave the game for months."
"i agree. if ccp want to pad their server load graphs, go right ahead, but if i'm playing eve, it's regardless of whether i've got a skill finishing. spending 30 seconds logged in in a station really doesn't count as \"play\" does it?"
"single most inexplicably missing feature in eve.i can only speak for myself, but forcing me to log in to switch skills does not encourage me to play. if i need to switch skills, i do it, then i go about my business. alternatively, i train long skills when i don't have a choice. trying to force me to play by making me log in to continue character development only infuriates me. my real life outside the game should dictate when i play, not the game itself. such a stance is misguided at best, but just presumptuous really.i do not like the dual training mechanic idea, i want the fast ones to finish fast, not slightly more slowly. it would make planning skills nightmarish. i don't even see a reason for limiting the length of the queue either based on time or number of skills. there are use cases that prove either limitation would defeat the purpose of a queue.and i don't buy the character farmer argument. they can already farm characters without a queue. it's like banning automatic transmissions in cars because it allows people to shoot pedestrians out the window because it frees up one of their hands. technically, it's sound reasoning, but it punishes 99.99% of people  legitimate players  for the potential crimes of a tiny number. the greater good should win out."
"it would be a nice feature to have."
"ok sorry to be rude, but i am failing to understand what was achieved by csm/cpp reunion here: its a simple problem not requiring heavy balancing and/or heavy programming  i think , we knew why ccp was hesitant and they knew why it's an important  even if purely practical  issue for the players from the dozens of pages of forum discussions, and they are supposed to be working on it for years  it was in an official todo list somewhere a  long  while back iirc .and what do we have? a summary of those years of discussion and that they will look into the issue with a moderate priority. huh... yay great, thats a real leap forward? taking precautions on important issues impacting the balance of the whole game is a good thing, but here? i was hoping for the csm to have a bit more decisive answers, at least for some of them ... \rant, sorry :p "
"yes i agree with much of what has been said here especially the above. this subject has been talked about all the years i have known about eve and is one of the things that has bugged me an aweful lot. i have always thought this could be a problem that it would be abused as people could sign up, set a long queue then leave the game thus training long skills for free however as said the 6 hour skills/7hours are annoying to say the least. i liked the idea that you could chain a skill e.g. have two skills one after another never thought too much about having more than 2 as that would be overkill for long skills  but i also like the time limit idea. so why not mix it e.g. two skills chained to a certain time limit, instead of just a set amount of skill time to build to it would still mean that you have tp tactfully think about time. and just a personal note, i do agree with the point that skills arent only what make me play eve but it is useful as a reminder to get me in game, sometimes i go in game only for a skill and it so happens that something is happenign and im glad i logged in for the skills which im sure many will find has happened whether they would like to believe it or not.dak's"
"i like that part.no comment on the first, i can't feel it affect me much in any way.. just set a longer if you can't log/get too stressed about it, and do the shorter while you're ingame. but that's just my thought on the matter.as the second case.. it'd make a nice feature. don't feel it's necessary, but it'd be nice to have. sounds like a solid solution to the first example as well."
"some great arguments above, which i agree with. a skill queue would not have the adverse affects you think it might ccp... it might actually mean more people making alts, since training small skills would be less of a chore. hell, i would start a new character but the thing putting me off is the amount of time required to change all those stupid small skills, i just can't be bothered with it"
"ccp needs to rethink the way they do things if they make changes that encourage more logging in. as the above users have said, a forced skill change doesn't encourage gameplay. it encourages late nights, waking in the middle of the night, missing study time, and the likes. it's long past since i bothered changing skills the second they finished but i know a lot of people still do.logging in for the trivial task of changing a skill is a negative for ccp in many ways. * it's a nuisance for their customers* it takes completely unnecessary server load* during peak periods it can cause delays for people wanting to \"play\"now, i have not really been a major supporter of the ability to queue skills. the real reason i believe ccp don't want this feature is because it promotes people taking extended periods without subscription whilst their training progresses thereby has a negative impact on income.i would propose that queued skilling come into play however on the condition that skill points only accrue when an account is active. if your account isn't subscribed you shouldn't be learning. it's a pretty fair compromise imo."
"i do not support a skill queue.i stand by the idea that players who are willing to take the time to micromanage their training should have a benefit over those players who do not. sure, you might lose out on a few hours of training if you choose to sleep instead of changing your skill at 1 am, but where does that logic stop? should players who choose to sleep get isk deposited into their account because other players got to rat/mission all night?it might seem like an extreme example, but it follows the same logic of getting something for nothing.thumbs down."
"yeah. of course, it is. yes, i fully agree with that.whatever. in fact, length of one extra skill would be enough. for example: 6 hour skill + 38 day skill. this would solve most of the problems.fair solution, great. i like that and want to encourage this specific idea.finally... thank you very much!"
"true... just quit my third account because micromanaging all those annoying short skills to get her able to do some work for me in a few months was such a **** in the ***."
"the lack of a skill queue is very, very frustrating and fixing this glaring omission should be ccp's highest priority.i don't want to live my life around eve. i have 1001 other things to do in real life, and \"just logging on to change a skill\" is just silly. i know that a lot of people live for eve. i don't. faction warfare is wonderful in that i get to play pvp pretty much on demand. the lack of queue spoils that enjoyment.it disrupts corp life  the \"oh hai i can't talk or join an op i am just changing a skill\" syndrome  as well.just give me the ability to drag a skill to a queue. let me queue up a dozen or so skills."
"the skill queue was presented with people who work 8-hour a day jobs who have many 4-6 hour skills to train in mind, not people who vend alts.also the skill queue description in the op isn't entirely accurate of what i recommended, but it's close enough."
"if there is a skill queue, something needs to be done to prevent people from doing something like the following:1  create alt and pay for one month2  set in-demand long skills3  stop paying4  sell new hac pilot for 1 bil in the character bazaari see several options to prevent this:- skill queue becomes inactive if the account is not paid for  only the current skill will continue training - queue cannot be larger than 1-2 skills- total skill training time cannot be longer than n days  7, maybe? a combination of all of these is perhaps best."
"i support the idea of a limited queue, something like being able to add skills to it while the current queue length is still under a certain amount, to a specific maximum depth  2 or 3 skills ."
"yes to dual training or skill queue of 1 skill deep. no more. deactivate dualtrain/skill queue when account becomes inactive."
"which is what i prefer as well. one is enough, two would possibly be already too much and would encourage farming. maybe also limit the first skill to be no longer than 24 hours. yay."
"solution: only apply the skill queue if the account subscription is active. if it is inactive, the queue doesn't apply, but the currently training skill continues to train until it reaches the level it was training towards."
"it shouldn't be that difficult to implement a queue that gives a minimum completion time of 12h.10 if current skill queue < 12h permit adding another skill20 goto 10this will prevent people from setting dread v + carrier v and then leave the account disabled for half a year."
"my preferred suggestion is a skill that adds some number of hours 6-24, depending on how good you want it to be  of queue length per level. you can stick whatever you like in a queue, but it'll only let you train off it for maybe a couple days before it stops. also, make it so that it can train new level 1 skills if the book is sitting in your hangar or cargo as of when the previous skill finishes and if it's not, it'll skip it and go down the list to the first one it can train . gives you the ability to put together a raft of short skills or one long one, without having to be awake at any given time of day, and without causing any real issues with unpaid training because really, an extra couple days is hardly gamebreaking when the usual length of an offline skill is 20-40 . also, make sure the queue timer is included in the api data, so that people don't forget it on evemon, but other than that it'll pretty much take care of itself. i'm for any kind of reasonable limited-length queue, but the above is my preferred variant."
"here is a solution.if players are only able to queue up skills based on an amount of time allotted by their attributes, then players would be able to set limited skill queues to prevent time wastage while still requiring players to log in reasonably close to the last skill's finishing time. for each attribute, the player gets 1 hour of queue time. when the player is setting up their queue, the primary attribute costs as much allotted time as the skill's current duration to finish, and secondary costs half as much as the duration to finish. there must be at least enough time allotted to cover the duration of the current skill before the next skill may be started in the queue. by using this method, the player may queue a skill to train that is a higher level of the current skill. the drawback is that the player is unable to have a 30-day skill automatically switch over to the next skill until their allotted time exceeds the current time remaining.here is an example of how it works  the following skill numbers are not exact! or even ballpark, it is just an example . suppose the player has an attribute line of 20 across the board. that means that they have 20 hours allotted to each attribute. the total max allotted time is 100 hours, which splits to 66.6 hours spent on primary attribute in the skill training and the 33.3 hours taken up by the secondary attribute, giving an true maximum of 66.6 hours allotted to the queue. the player wants to train gunnery  perception / willpower  skill a few levels. the first level takes 30 minutes, the second level takes 2 hours, the third takes 8 hours, and the fourth takes 18 hours. the player also wants to do the same with leadership  charisma / willpower  the player then chooses to train drones  memory / perception  which is at level 3 already.gunnery:level 0 -> level 1 - 30 minutes - reduces perception to 19:30 and willpower to 19:45level 1 -> level 2 - 2 hours - reduces perception to 17:30 and willpower to 18:45level 2 -> level 3 - 8 hours - reduces perception to 9:30 and willpower to 14:45since level 3 -> level 4 would go beyond the allotted time, it cannot be queued. charisma:level 0 -> level 1 - 30 minutes - reduces charisma to 19:30 and willpower to 14:30level 1 -> level 2 - 2 hours - reduces charisma to 17:30 and willpower to 13:30level 2 -> level 3 - 8 hours - reduces charisma to 9:30 and willpower to 7:30drones:level 3 -> level 4 - 18 hours - reduces memory to 2:00 and perception to 0:30the player currently has 39 out of a possible 66.6 hours of skills in the queue. at this point, the player has the following time still allotted for the queue:intelligence - 20 hoursperception - 30 minutescharisma - 9:30willpower - 7:30 memory - 2 hoursi believe that this is the solution that is fair, and would give players enough time to keep skills constantly training without any lost time. if a player's pod is destroyed, the player wants to insert or remove an implant, or the player's account has expired, their queue is eliminated automatically. otherwise, the player may edit or clear their queue at any time.also, in the case of learning skills, they do not reduce the estimated queue time for skills set after them, but will automatically begin affecting them after the learning skill has completed. as for the way to set up the menu, i leave that to you. i envision something that looks like an object-oriented programming window where skills can be dragged and dropped, or even a list to that extent i would be more than happy to provide more suggestions for how to set this up.it may seem like alot of math and calculations and trouble for the player, but alot of it can be solved by the layout and information provided by the interface for the skill queue.anyhow, i hope this idea seems fair and appealing to all. thank you for reading!"
"interesting suggestion, but way too complex imo. keep it as simple as you can - there's no need for skill queuing to turn into a minigame."
"i also agree that these bizarre, time limit, math problems are too much extra.it's as simple as  current skill  and  queued skill .current skill could be training a skillbook from 0 to 1. queue is from 1 to 2. then you're set for... about 20min.current from 1 to 2. queue from 2 to 3. set for about an hour or so.all of these will slowly advance you in simple processes, which would have otherwise required you to \"play the game\" for about 10 seconds worth of switching.or...current is spaceship command 4 to 5. queued is racial industrial 4 to 5. you're set for a couple weeks at least. during which time, you can take a care free vacation without having to hunt down wi-fi on the beach. when you return, you're just a few minutes away from climbing into a freighter.a \"skill queue\" scares too many people, because they believe you could create an entirely new character, supply them with the books, and return a year later to find a titan pilot trained to 5.it doesn't need to be any more complex than 1 skill following 1 skill. sure, if a player happens to chain another skill a few days later... they've only \"played the game\" for 10 seconds, just like we are now."
"i'm quoting the lot as i happen to agree ad verbatim.i'd like to stress this bit though \"now, i have not really been a major supporter of the ability to queue skills\"but i've also ended up with \"it's long past since i bothered changing skills the second they finished\"so i'm starting to lean towards beeing pro queue skill  never thought the day would come.... .it should however be kept really simple.no more than 2 days in the skill queue  ie. last skill in the queue has to start before that - regardless how long that skill takes to finish itself if you cant be assed to log in at least every 2 days, well then you don't care enough abotu your sp's in the first place.2 days should be plenty to get around those pesky \"odd hour\" skills and leave a day of for a party or whatever, and then some to spare.no more is needed."
"we will have to agree to disagree i'm afraid.as mentioned i'm \"originally\" against a skill queue, however i've been convinced otherwise due to the \"odd hour\" skills.having to get up in the middle of the night or similar to not lose skillpoints is kind of silly  is silly because people will actually *do* it - and it's not a healthy thing... but that's also the only thing that has convinced me to change my mind on having a skill queue or not - and i've then added a bit of extra time in my proposal \"for good meassure\".but if you can't play the game for extended periods of time, due to military or illness or vacation or otherwise then i'm sorry for you, but i, as ccp, believe in logging in regularly to play the game, or you're out of luck  sp wise , even if it's just to change a skill.we obviously disagree on this. fair enough. no harm."
"as said above, a simple 1  skill in training, 2  skill in queue...all training stops when a subscription is inactive... i love to login when i feel like playing... i hate to have to login because i need to change a skill... i also hate that my current skill will run it's course about 1 minute after down time starts... so i will have another partially trained skill waiting for the time when i can spare the time to finish it... where if i had a skill queue, i could set up the next skill to start when the current skill completes."
"yes, yes, yeseven a 12 hour, 1 skill que would be a huge boost. allowing players a small window to log in and que up a second skill, really helps people like myself who work 12 hour shifts  with 3 hours commuting on top of that . nothing is more frustrating then setting up a skill to finish in the morning before work, waking up and finding that eve is unexpectedly down. trying for 45 minutes or so, helpless waiting for the server to come up - but it doesn't. and knowing i'm losing 15 hours of training through no fault of my own. please implement some improvement."
"i have to say, this would be quite nice. this way, i won't have to guess if i'll be up in time to change skills if i want to get a ten hour or so skill done during the night, or i can have a two week skill queued up behind my normal skill, 'just in case' -- this would have been very useful to me recently, when i unexpectly had a hospital stay, and wasn't able to set long skills beforehand. having to stay in the hospital for a while isn't fun, but knowing all the time you're in there that you're losing a week of skill training time on each account is just plain annoying!"
"agreed. just a 1 deep queue to protect against power outages / server crashes / stuck at the office / etc. thanks."
"wow so the csm managed to confirm that a issue that is on the drawingboard  "
"ccp is aware that there are no drone implants. the reason behind this is that there are only a few skills available to drone users, and that implants are often tied to skills. due to the demand, they will look into this and are likely to implement these implants in the future."
"this is good news. in particular please pay attention to the drone mining issue.one thing frequently forgotten in calculations about drone mining yield is the 'waste factor' when mining the heavier ores. due to the size limits on the drone capacity and the large size of the ores, you're not getting a yield which fills the drone capacity. i know that 'partial mines' are not possible. but please look at the yields when you evaluate implants and see if there can be a way to 'fill' a mining drone's capacity."
"since most other implants serve to increase specifics related to the module/weapon used, i hope that drone implants are treated the same.drones have damage, tracking, speed, durability and range. implants that address those criteria would be a welcome addition to the game.too long have drone lovers had to sit by while their laser/hybrid/missle loving counterparts are provided with implants to increase their chosen weapon's abilities, along with numerous modules that add additional increases as well.the very few drone-related modules that are available were a great start to showing the love to drone users.the only real 'imbalance', if it can even be called that, between drones and all other forms of weaponry is the lack of drone related implants.when the nerfbat was used to limit the number of drones fielded at any time, it was proported to be due to lag issues. now that we are basically restricted to 5 at a time, hopefully the lag issues have either been addressed as fully as possible through drone reasoning, or some other target for the nerfbat is being identified.my 2 cents."
"very much agreed, but i think you forgot to tick the support box.the implants are not skill based. wrangler, have you looked at the implants for other things?they in crease \"all missile damage\" or \"all turret firing rate\" or \"heavy missile damage\" or \"all missile range\".why aren't there drone equivalents? like, \"increase the damage of all drones\", \"increase the hitpoints of all drones\", \"increase the damage of light drones\", \"increase the damage of medium drones\", \"increase the ewar strength of drones\".there are direct parallels to drones from the other weapon systems. more drone mods should be high slot mods. except for the mining drones, they're weapon systems."
"warhead upgrades, rapid firing, heavy missiles, and missile bombardment."
"drone interfacing, combat drone operation, scout drone operation.or did you have a point?"
"you said the implants weren't skill-based, i pointed out that most implants directly replicate the function of a skill. i think wrangler's comment was silly, because there clearly are drone skills, but your comment was even less accurate. and i'm hardly opposed to drone implants - i fly domis and ishtars among others , and posted a comment of some length in the original thread on this topic. i wasn't attacking your point, just your comment."
"this is good news. i wish the csm would have presented the \"drone module\" idea as well though, as it would have tied in nicely with the implants and would have been important in considering balancing issues."
"hi!i personal think, u should improve the drone bay.like adding \"drone racks\" to the game which can be placed inside the drone bay.\"drone racks\" should have bonuses like implants  increasing dmg/ or autorepair, increasing range etc... the actually size of drone bays would limited there use.so u can setup these \"drone racks\" with your personal favourite drones inside stations and set a name.   this would help sorting it before u scroll down a long list of drones inside space and simply helpfull to organise the market would have some new items which will be needed, and needs to be replaced.  i personal loose more ships then implant clones against overpowering the gallente droneships u should add penaltys in using them.some thoughts on itbreg mac"
"in my opinion faction equipment of all types are needed for drone users. faction drones are still almost impossible to get compared to other faction equipment. there are no faction drone mods, and no faction drone ships. and with the nerf bat beating the eos to death unless you fly a 30man falcon fleet...  the only 2 ships worth getting are the ishtar or dom."
"removing 30d time cards is acceptable from the standpoint that some users were \"playing\" the game without paying for it by setting their longer  30d+  skills and not paying for that month.however, the price increase is affecting all of us quite adversely. it is extremely difficult to make the isk necessary to play this game now, meaning a good amount of the player base is being left out.this is not acceptable, ccp."
"signed."
"hi, i only just started selling time codes when they announced that it was going to change and i pay by cc so i was not affected.i agree that these changes sucked. but from various posts i have read. ccp will not be changing there mind.i cant find the post, but there was a dev comment about this issue. selling time codes does not make them money in the long run. they sell them in bulk to the other websites that sell gtc's at a discount. so they dont make money, and as a business that is not a good thing.as a business you have to make a profit to be able to run things. need to pay for electricity, wages, development software, security costs etc etc. i am sure if a dev posted the actual cost to run eve online for a year, most whiners would think again about complaining.from what i read in the other post, unlike every other mmo in existence. we are the only ones to get two free expansions a year, so that is a extra <U+FFFD>20-<U+FFFD>30 quid in our pockets every 6mths. i believe the cost to develop each expansion is over <U+FFFD>10 million.dont forget ccp is a business and they are in the business to make <U+FFFD><U+FFFD><U+FFFD>. keeping us happy is only needed to keep it rolling in.raise prices for 30 days is fine with me if thet are bought back"
"/signedbring back 30 and 90 gtc's im no accountant but im sure yours is more than happy with the books they dont need a 33% rise"
"noah  ccp  believes that the current wardec system amounts to a pay-to-grief system, and that ccp is interested in making war declarations deeper by adding mechanics such as victory conditions that would eventually end wars. valentijn  csm dierdra vaal  commented that under the current system, the defender has no control over the war and the attacker can keep it up indefinitely as long as they keep paying the bills. he also observed that there currently is no determined end goal to the war itself.matt  ccp  stated that wardecs are necessary so corporations can attack each other<U+FFFD>s logistic chains in empire, but that there are often wars started without reason, simply to get random victims to gank and grief. the system should be balanced so that the first aspect is not hindered while the second aspect is deterred.eva  csm ankhesentapemkah  said that in any mmo, players should be allowed to group and organize in relative safety, while in eve this is deterred as grouping up makes you a target to attack. there is no safe way for players to get started in small scale groups this way. sean  csm darius johnson  suggested that it might be an option to scale consequences based on the sizes of the warring corporations.various csm members suggested to allow corporations to auction off the war to mercenaries, who would from that point on participate in the war. ccp understands that the current system needs work and thinks that involving mercenaries shows promise. no solid solution has been come up with but the issue is on the agenda"
"i especially like the idea of auctioning off war decs to allow mercs' participation without fronting the bill. it will certainly make things interesting in high sec."
"i do hope \"auctioning off wardecs to mercs\" means an auction system where mercs can outbid each other, and not that a target corp can actually get rid of their war dec by 'selling' it to a merc. because that would be insanely stupid."
"well, the wording suggests mercs to participate, not get rid of the war."
"i agree that wardecs are currently \"pay to grief\". but eve shouldn't have any areas that are 100% safe. even in 1.0 there should be at least some risk."
"definitely support more complexity in the war dec mechanic than the current pay to grief mechanism, as described."
"i think this will create more pvp in high sec, not less. and you will still be allowed to grief. just be prepared to have your wardecs auctioned off to willing merc participants. i wouldn't expect griefers to like this. but then again it's not like they care on whether their targets are being griefed either. so they really have no moral authority in this case."
"i definitely like the idea of war decs to have an end scenario. where the entity declaring war has to make a choice as to what situation constitutes a victory for them. possibly making the total cost of ship losses and mods a strategic goal.for example...- corp a declares war on corp b.- corp a decides a monetary value of loss they would need to obtain thru corp b to declare victory. corp b can pay some of that thru isk transfers, or simply lose their ships which get added into the sum.- corp a has an x amount of cost per week for war based on  1  how big corp b is, and  2  how much isk loss value they are declaring for victory.- corp a gains war victory points with every successful war won, and they lose victory points if corp b reaches the isk loss total first or corp a stops paying for the war. victory points are based on how much isk you are demanding corp b to lose or pay.... of course i'll leave ccp to work out the kinks."
"this might help to discourage large established corps wardecing new small corps.make the cost of declaring war proportionate to the difference in size and age of corp; ie: large corp a  150 members  declares war on small corp b 15 members corp a's wardec costs are multiplied by 150/15 = 10where the corp declaring war has the same number of members or less then no multiplier is applied.an additional multiplier could be applied to do with the difference in the amount of time the corps have been in existence. ie: corp a  established for 24 months  declares war on corp b  established for 5 months  will incur an additional wardec cost of 24/5 = 4.8%this is a very rough draft and i know this would be complicated by the fact that you could avoid this penalty simply by setting up a new corp every 6 months but it might go some way to protecting small new corps."
"i agree that the mechanic needs to be looked at. people who wish to lolgank need to be more restricted to lowsec."
"after months of work and losing it all don't you lose player base as they quit the game?"
"if you can draft out a series of scenarios that woul be used for war-terms than this will have my full support."
"interesting thought. i agree with you, mostly because i think that it is too easy to grief new players and make this game unattractive to them.question is: what can ccp do to avoid this bad situation? i have, to be honest, not the slightest idea..."
"do this, you solve anything:all corps need to have a pos at least as command center, otherwise they cannot declare war  but can be war declared . if the command center get destroyed, the coproration is automatically disbanded and all the players involved cannot join another corporation for 1 month.explanation:the true problem is that all empire war are guerrilia war, where attacker pick up random targets just for fun and threat the weaker when they want just for fun. if they have to defend a pos  that they have also to keep secret , things change and no more grief wars, because pos cannot be logged out and cannot hide forever if odds come."
"what about corps who cannot maintain a pos and/or just meant as holding corps for larger alliances?"
"i sense he was being a bit facetious.but lets not make pos' more of a bottleneck in eve than they already are."
"i like the idea of having a \"command center\" but i don't think it needs to be a pos. it needs a lower barrier of entry."
"command center tower may have it fuel requirement halved or even 1/3 of the normal price. the point is to give a target to the defender, instead of be vigilant forever  impossible for an industrial corp or research corp .in this way, griefer can still decalre all the wars they want, but if they cannot defend or maintain concealed theiur command center, they will be ****ed up: no more kill for grief... you will have to declare war if you truly need it.an alliance can declare up to 5 command centers for example, so alliance war will not be a command center searching... just some ideas anyway...edited: and yes, if command center is in high sec, it can be only small tower and cannot be armed or very low armed... just because dreads cannot come in high sec."
"the problems that exists in the wardec system now are:-1. wardecs are used for larger corps to grief smaller corps.2. the wardec system really goes against the eve security system that is in place. when you are wardecced 1.0 is not even relatively safe if you're a high-sec industrial corp  for example .3. wardecs are endless. war just rages on forever.these are the specific issues in the wardec system i would like to see the csm look at."
"very pleased to see this on the agenda. safety is a tough issue in eve and one i regularly argue about on the forums when people start talking about forcing people out of npc corps.this to me hits the nail on the head. there should be no guaranteed safety ever in eve, but there's nothing wrong with some safety whilst still being in a corporation, and plenty wrong with the current system where rich bored experienced players can just permanently wardec and roll over new corps trying to make a start in eve.mmos function best when it's a carrot that gets you into content, not a stick. people should want to be part of corporations and feel they're going to get something useful out of it.the favourite line trotted out when this issue comes up is that a bunch of new players shouldn't stick together; they should form up with older players. there is much wisdom in this sort of synergy, as i have observed in the amarr militia with new and old thrown together  even if it flies a little in the face of some of ccp's statements about old vs new . unfortunately it's still not very feasible.i for one wouldn't join a corporation unless i knew the people involved, felt i could trust them, and had fleeted or fought with/against them at least once. how do you get npc-corp members to do that? the most popular form of new startup corp that i know of is a bunch of npc-corp members that all start around the same time, grow together, and decide to start out on their own. inevitably quite a few die off after one or two wardecs from griefer corps.for this reason alone, i applaud the factional warfare initiative, because it is throwing new players together with old in a way that never occurred before. however it doesn't address those for whom pvp is not the first goal in eve - industry, mining, research, and so on; all are vital parts without which pvp is not possible.for that reason i support the notion that the new startup corps without older player aid ought to get a decent chance to grow whilst not being immune to the harsh realities of eve. changing wardecs to have limited scope or goals in some way may well be a good way of doing things."
"i wish there was something to support here, but there is no proposal being made. i'm pleased that ccp is aware of a problem i thought them resigned to. i'm pleased with the observations and comments by members of ccp and the csm, though some of them are vague and, as written, open to a variety of interpretations.i'm not sure why this is in the assembly hall section of the csm forums. it's more of an announcement as its apparently already on the agenda.best regards,windjammer"
"if implemented it would need refinement, but, wow! very interesting. and i can envision indy-type corps rallying up for a fight to end the war. it gives them a well-worth reason to fight other than just to survive another day of grief. i would love it if ccp considered your idea."
"i kinda agree with this type of method of figuring out a war dec cost. also, why not have some reprecussions for not reaching your war \"goal\"?so, lets say ccp has a preset list to choose from for your war goal. each item on the list has a preset time limit on it along with the goal. so only way to end the war is obtain the goal before the time is up, or reach the time limit pre-established on the initial contract.put a 3 month or 6 month timer after war is complete where they can't be war dec'd by the exact same corp/alliance.as far as the reprecussions of not meeting your war goal, impose a 100% fine of the contract price upon a failed war dec. so if you pay 150mil for the contract, you owe 300mil more on a unsuccessful war dec.  make the 300mil a \"deposit\" when contract is signed so it's paid upfront. so if failed, no isk back, if successful, you get the isk back.numbers aren't solid numbers, but these are just some suggestions.khonn"
"how about this in terms of win or loss - look at war like a business gamble.let's assume that we have ways of 'establishing victory'.with that done - turn war into more of a business. if a war-dec fees were put into a virtual escrow then if the aggressor fails to achieve his goals then why not give a small portion of that wardec fee to the target of the wardec."
"depends on what you're after, though the precise terms would have to be worked out. plenty of those who grief are just after a fight because they're bored - an industrial corp selling the wardec to a merc in that case gives them exactly what they're after.by comparison, a wardec used the way it was intended, as corp-corp wars over resources or territory or that sort of important thing, on an industrial corp, well you definitely don't want them getting rid of it.perhaps what is needed are classes of wardecs - cheap ones that the wardecee can sell off and so negate the war, and expensive ones where you really mean it and though the other side can auction mercs and so on, they are equally committed.whatever is there can still be abused if you have enough money and the only determining factor is money, so i still think the notion of declaring war for a goal and a time rather than just two sides declaring each other targets for a week is important.for example, a war could have numerous conditions that the declarer can pick from:number of combatants killed - rack up enough kills and the war automatically ends.isk damage inflicted - you want to make a financial point.pos destruction - you want that high-sec location.system clearance - you want them out of that system.whichever you pick there should be equally ways for the opposing side to end the war by achieving equivalent objectives - thus encouraging them to step up and do something as well.matching unequal corps is a difficult one. a 200-person experienced corp wardeccing a 20-person new corp needs to be discouraged. the cost of the wardec could skew according to total corp sp for example on active players  undocked within the last week etc. .i'm just throwing ideas out. they're not meant to be definitive answers.edit: the above notions of escrow and command centers are quite intriguing too. corps already have an unassailable headquarters. perhaps if they are required to have an assailable one to engage in war, that could make things more interesting."
"another random idea - if there is one thing that puts new players off engaging in pvp, it's losing their implants.so, if you want a cheaper wardec, you can opt to declare it but no podding. that way the new players are encouraged even before the harsher world of factional warfare to get out there and fight in a slightly more sanitised way. podding results in concord and loss of insurance and usual penalties, to make the point stick.sure, you can still have wars that involve podding, but they'll cost more. i'm just thinking of ways to get new players into pvp and corps as early as possible without pushing them down that steep learning curve before they're ready.i think there are loads of options to enable the sort of high-sec slightly sanitised warfare that gets both sides fighting instead of hiding in npc corps or playing docking games."
"here is a system i thought over a few days ago, if you have questions feel free to ask.fixing wardecs in features and ideas discussion"
"just a thought, all corporations have an area of operation  aoo  that they usually all stick to, as obviously corporations band together into solar systems where the corporations hq and/or office s  are resided; this goes for pvp, industrialist and mission running corporations.so why not have tactical rally points  trp  in and between these aoo's of the two or more warring corporations. like boarders where the players engage each other. using the 'command posts' as these trp for both a point of defence and a point to attack from. example: attacking force first has to assemble at they're command post 'team up and take flag'[must be present at command post so that only those at the command post can be in the attacking fleet, others will then have to patrol boarders or defend they're command post s ] and then they will be able to engage the defending force's command post; upon occupation of the defenders command post the 'flag bearer' must then hold the position for a certain amount of time. once the time elapses the command post changes hands into the attacking force.command posts could be in deadspace zones.also the size of the corporations participating in the war could determine the size of the aoo and the number of trp's for each side.thanks, beani kliadi"
"as a merc, i do believe that the current system needs to change. 3 major concerns come to mind:1. voting, 48 hours is some times too long for the defending corp to wait. voting needs to be changed so that when all the shares are accounted for, the vote ends.2. as far as the merc bids... i think it would be a good idea... but how would mercs find out about a job? maybe the contract system? all in all... i don't believe this to easy to implement or be useful. a better solution would be a ccp endorsed mercenary channel, where mercs and contractees can find each other. the only problem with this is mercs finding out other merc jobs and maybe going for the other side and other such back door deals. but i think those can be handled on the player side.3. victory conditions and command posts, both great ideas! major points involved to those who suggested it. but... i have questions... a. could victory conditions be added upon? for example, i have a contract to do 2 billion isk in damages to corp a. corp b informs me that corp a also has a pos that they want taken down also. would it be possible to change those victory conditions? b. command posts... fuel requirements... as a combat corp, i don't really have haulers and industry guys... so how would fund this? basically your telling combat corps that they need to pay more to have the ability to declare war. i don't like thinking about that... mercs are not the most well paid individuals... so either no fuel requirements or plan c c. i propose a different solution that could be considered fair to all sides. corp a attacks corp b: corp a has whatever victory condition. corp b being a small corp, is unable to match the numbers or firepower of corp a. corp b camps corp a's headquarters and/or offices. hq would be worth 2 points, offices 1. for every hour camped corp b would acquire 1 or 2 points, but for every  figuring out what would be fair... 2, 3, 4, or 6 hour intervals?  interval they would lose a point. the objective would be... say... 24  ?  points. to be fair i think that to avoid the obvious counter of having a 0.0 hq and no offices... the command post idea could come into play. corp a has to declare a command post in the same region as corp b's hq or office. the command post could be found in corp a's corp info. this is a very rough idea. i hope to think more on it over the next few days."
"thats how i would do it:the new system:first we have to distinguish between a cold and a hot war, which differ in the possibility to actually shot each other.corp a wardecs corp b, but unlike in the present system it has to choose at least one reason it is actually fighting for.the following reasons could be selected:money: with a maximum of half the corps income in the previous 30 days and a minimum of 1 mill.system control: corp a wants corp b out of a certain systemmoon control: corp a wants a pos of corp b removedmember removal: corp a wants a certain member of corp b expelled.the war fee should be determined by the numbers of attacking corps and the member numbers of these corps:1. war declaration 10 mill base fee.2. war declaration 20 mill. base feeand so onif the attacking corp has more members the base fee is multiplied with the according ratio. 3 to 1 for example would result in a 30 mill first war dec.the following restricitions apply to the waring corps:cannot recruit new members.cannot form fleets with non corp members, unless the war has been declared to be open.leaving the corp takes 7 days  up to discussion corp b's optionsdeclare mutual: corp a cant retract the war but can also issue the options below.declare open: both corp members can form fleets with other playerssurrender: different for the individual war reasons, except that the war cannot be retracted anymoremoney : once the amount is paid the war turns into a cold warsystem control : war turns cold and corp b members become blinky red to corp a members in the system in questionmoon control : war turns cold and the tower offlines and cannot be onlined until it is relaunched for corpmember removal : war turns cold once member is kicked, which takes place immidiately  only with applies for ths member should the member rejoin before the war ends, corp b members become blinky red to corp a members"
"a +2 set is about 12mil. other than that, jump clones."
"really nice to hear of changes to this system. older, established rich corps shouldn't be able to grief and generally smack down newer corps for all time, just bc they were there first. it's definitely an advantage being a more established corp, but ther def needs to be some parameters and victory conditions that would enable the smaller corps to still remain functional and in existence, and not be so discouraging to newer players."
"there could be 10 3 years old player in one corp that can declare war to a corp formed by 15 3 moths old players.i think that it will be better that every corporation and alliance need to have a net worth. the net worth will be calculated based on the members skill points, assets, isk and how old is the character. having a net worth you have 2 choices:1. allow a corp to war dec only corps that have net worth in the range -/+ x% of the war declaring corp  i think that this will not be a good thing 2. make the price of the war proportional to the difference of the net worth of the two corps."
"a friend of mine made several bil isk within his first 3 months of playing eve, purely out of really organised player-to-player trade.he had less than 5mil sp.his assets alone ranked in the multiple billions.his character was brand new.now, he could have been generous and spread the love amongst the 9 members of his corp that have 3 year old pvp centric characters... at the same time there's nothing stopping one corp from supporting another corp financially..."
"table of contentsday 10001 skill queue functionality0002 bombs need a boost0003 problems with aggression timer0004 black ops improvements0005 csm voting for own chairman0006 destructible outpostsxxxx various ui improvementsday 20009 alliances and factional warfare0010 5% voting issues0008 cargo hold size of ships in hangar0016 switch ammo for all weapons at once0028 forum issues and fixes0023 sell order availability standing, seller name listing0018 0.0 sovereignty issues0019 contract improvements0020 public pos arrays0021 assembly array issues0017 empire war dec mechanics0022 shares, dividends and stock marketday 30024 experimental industry issues, long-term industry plans0025 game time code concerns0026 suicide ganking0027 drone implants0036 small freighters0034 linux clientxxxx changes to alternates0010 5% voting issues  continued priority list"
"0001 skill queue functionalitynoah  ccp  indicated ccp<U+FFFD>s awareness of the player frustrations with the ~6 hour duration skill trainings. however, ccp strongly believes that switching skill training is an activity that encourages players to log into the game and play. a skill queue would be a possible solution, if there would be limitations, such as a limited amount of skills being trained, or that only skills of a total up to a certain duration can be stacked into the queue.alex  csm bane glorious  noted that players have also suggested a dual training mechanic, where players can pick a primary and secondary skill, which both train at half speed. as soon as the skill with the shortest duration is finished, the other skill will train at full speed.it was concluded that ccp will look into a solution for this issue.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0002 bombs need a boostnoah  ccp  informed the csm that it was the intention for bombs to be used to break up on-grid blobs. ccp is aware that the current system is not entirely balanced out, but that it was better to introduce bombs in a pre-nerfed state and boost them later rather than implementing them in an overpowered fashion.alex  csm bane glorious  suggested that one of the main issues with bombs is the cost of these weapons, and that the cost should be reduced, while the required cargo space should be unaffected so that people cannot carry huge amounts of these weapons. another suggestion was to increase damage done to large targets.andrew  csm jade constantine  pointed out that stealth bomber vulnerability was an issue as well, and that it might be necessary to improve the range of bombs.noah  ccp  agreed to hand this issue to the ccp balancing team.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0003 problems with aggression timerccp is aware of the issue, and noted that there currently exists a whack-a-mole type of play, where players repeatedly undock, fire a few shots, and redock. this is undesirable, but will have to be carefully balanced to account for various situations and possible exploitive strategies. [ccp addition: this subject is about the <U+FFFD>dock/jump after aggression<U+FFFD> timer  60 seconds , not criminal flagging/thief timer  15 minutes .]alison  csm inanna zuni  observed that ships of all sizes have the same time limits, and that it is generally harder to destroy a large ship opposed to a small one. alision  csm inanna zuni  and valentijn  csm dierdra vaal  suggested that the timer should be changed based on ship type.alex  csm bane glorious  was also concerned with remove-repair alts, whose actions currently have no impact on the aggression timer.ccp is aware of the issues and heard the csm concerns, and will work towards developing a solution.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0004 black ops improvementsnoah  ccp  indicated that ccp was aware that battleships with jumpdrives would become the ultimate ship, and to this end black ops ships were pre-nerfed.andrew  csm jade constantine  noted that the range of the drive and the presence of cynojammers made the jumpdrive capability virtually useless. another problem is the limited amount of fuel that can be carried.bane  csm bane glorioius  added to this that due to the fuel taking up large amounts of cargo space, loot from successful operations often cannot be hauled back to friendly territory.noah  ccp  commented that a fuel bay can be added, so that fuel no longer takes up cargo space, or that specialized haulers could perhaps be used to haul the loot back or bring in supplies. ccp will also look at the issue with cynojammers. jump range might be looked into but is of a lower concern, otherwise black ops ships might become too competitive with capital ships.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0005 csm should vote for own chairmanp<U+FFFD>tur  ccp  started off by saying that the csm should come up with solutions if the existing rules do not work, and write a guide for the next csm how problems were overcome. it will be allowed for the chairman to stand down, and as a side note, p<U+FFFD>tur  ccp  noted that changes will be made to the way alternates are handled under the current system, so that their participation does not count as a term.andrew  csm jade constantine  wished to have the chairman role electable, as he believed that all the roles should be agreed on by the majority of the council.sean  csm darius johnson  said that he had no problem with the current way the chairman is elected, but rather with the roles and responsibilities assigned to the chairman.ccp also indicated that there were concerns with the continuity of the csm, and would like a system put in place where the next csm can easily pick up where the previous one left off. knowledge and experience would need to be passed on and everything would need to be properly documented. current csm members should advise the next csm.eva  csm ankhesentapemkah  expressed concern with the lack of a proper medium to record knowledge and urged for a csm forum, subversion or wiki to be set up as soon as possible to contain and preserve all information, and make it easy for the next csm to continue running projects.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0006 destructible outpostsccp made it clear that there are technical issues in the way of destroying outposts  running science/industry jobs, market, players and property in station, etc , and that it would require a major overhaul to a lot of aspects of the game to make destructible outposts possible. therefore it will not be feasible to destroy outposts.andrew  csm jade constantine  said that there should be more risk associated to 0.0 presence, and that it currently is too hard to remove an established 0.0 entity. it is too hard to inflict lasting damage.ccp replied that the csm should look at other ways to accomplish what destructible outposts would.andrew  csm jade constantine  continued that instead of a total removal of outposts, they could be put into a 'derelict' mode, where normal processes would finish and all items and players would remain onboard, but no new services could be initiated.various csm members said that there currently are a lot of useless outposts littering 0.0, and that it would be nice to destroy or disable the outposts and raid them for supplies, so that land could be left fallow, and a reward is gained from pillaging these outposts.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0007 0011-0015 0033 various ui issuesccp informed the csm that they have a game designer and 3 programmers currently dedicated to implementing ui improvements and cut down on the 'excel in space' appearance of the ui. ccp is also interested in making the in-space view more usable, as currently almost all space-based interaction is done through the overview list.the standard behavior for double-clicking avatars is something that can easily be implemented, and will be looked into. regarding electronic warfare icons in the overview, ccp indicated that they would want a more dynamic solution, where information is only displayed when it becomes relevant to the player and does not take up space otherwise. as for the minimum size of the various windows in the game, it will be hard to change this in the short-term. individual windows can be changed one at a time, but changes across the board will not be possible.ccp will look into changing the skill page to clearly display the currently trained skill.the personal assets page was set up as it is by design, the data is not available locally, and loading everything would be heavy on the database. this will probably not be changed. sorting items by subcategory and general category will be something ccp is going to look into.regarding the display of pilot avatars in the side bar of the chat channel, ccp will look into making this a toggleable feature. the csm noted that the reason behind this is that people want to see as much names as possible in the list, and that avatars take up a lot of space.making icons stand out better for people affected by color-deficiency, ccp is aware of the concerns but it will consume a lot of resources to replace the current textures and thus it will likely be surpassed by issues with a higher priority. they will keep it in mind to make future icons stand out better to people affected by this condition.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0009 alliances and factional warfarematt  ccp  explained that ccp's goal of factional warfare was to introduce more players to pvp, and that it was not intended as end-game pvp, which they believe is 0.0 warfare. factional warfare is to prepare players for 0.0 warfare. alliances partaking in factional warfare would open a can of worms to them, for instance, that factional warfare would move inter-alliance conflicts out of 0.0 where they belong, and into sovereign empire space, and that experienced alliance pilots would gank new players that want to learn about pvp in factional warfare.from a technical aspect, it is impossible for an alliance as a whole to join factional warfare. it is possible to allow corporations in an alliance to sign up, as this feature is currently blocked and this block could be lifted. andrew  csm jade constantine  reacted that there are disadvantages for a whole alliance to sign up, as their industrialist part could no longer enter certain parts of empire space and that they are free to shoot at by the enemy militias, while griefers that want to gank new players in factional warfare easily get around the limitations by just setting up a separate corporation. on the other hand, roleplaying alliances, which might not have 0.0 assets, are currently left out while they would benefit greatly from factional warfare.matt  ccp  argued that if corporations in alliances would be allowed to join factional warfare, individual corporations might sign up with opposing factions, making them each other's enemy through factional warfare and each other's ally through the alliance, which would result in a logical paradox.ccp said that they would rather want to make the 'shiny features' of factional warfare available to alliances and 0.0 combat this would include a rank system for corporations  and make 0.0 warfare more interesting by having strategic locations to fight over like in factional warfare rather than using the resources to make factional warfare available for alliances. andrew  csm jade constantine  noted that just quick-fixing factional warfare and allowing corporations in alliances to participate would be enough to please a lot of people. matt  ccp  replied that ccp will first look how factional warfare will develop in the future before making any rushed adjustments, but that they will look into making factional warfare available to corporations in alliances, with the limitation that corporations in the same alliance can only sign up with one and the same faction.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0010 5% voting issuesp<U+FFFD>tur  ccp  explained that the current 5% amount of players to bring an issue to the csm was to ensure that not a single alliance could force their issues through, but that 5,000 votes would be a more practical number at the moment. ccp wants to keep this democratic mechanism in place, but understands that either the percentage will be too high so that it would never be obtained or too low so that a single alliance can force all its issues through.the csm conferred on its own and changed the required percentage to 25% of the amount of people that voted in the election.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0008 cargo hold size of ships in hangarcurrently ships in the hangar do not display the effects of modules, rigs and skills. this did occur in the past, but was removed due to people exploiting the mechanics by off-lining cargo expanders so that they would not suffer the drawbacks but kept the passive bonus of the module. thus the cargo space increase is now an active effect which required the module to be online. when not boarded, all modules on a ship will go offline, resulting in less cargo space being available.alison  csm inanna zuni  indicated that the 30 second time delay between swapping ships was the reason behind the frustration that this issue caused. ccp is currently looking at decreasing this session change timer, but cannot change the cargo hold issue.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0016 switching ammo for all weapons at onceccp said that this issue has been brought up in the past, but has been rejected due to performance reasons. moving items around causes a heavy load on the servers and making guns easier to reload might encourage players to do it even more frequently. there are concerns that during large fleet battles, all ammunition will be changed at the call of a fleet commander, which would cause an enormous spike on the servers.however due to the popularity of this feature, ccp will confer with the server/database teams to see if this feature can be implemented and how it would affect performance.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0028 forum issues and fixesccp recognizes the issues with the forums, and devs suffer from them as well. the problems originate from some server-side limitations because of the use of .asp instead of .aspx, but there are also session limitations in browsers, which cause problems. there are also issues with the load balancer, which occasionally sends people to a different node which does not recognize the user's authentication, which is an issue that can be looked at. ccp would like to move the forum to another database, and will change the entire forum in the long run but a final decision and plan has not been finalized yet. the csm and the players will be kept up to date on the developments.regarding the forum not being readable in the ingame browser, there are no plans to address this as the current ingame browser is no longer being developed. there are plans to replace the ingame browser with different software.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0023 sell order availability based on standing, seller name listingccp quickly dismissed this as a possibility for the market system, as performance will be drastically impacted, and the market was designed to match a buy order with the lowest sell order. this is a highly optimized system capable of handling the large amounts of transactions in eve.eyj<U+FFFD>  ccp  commented that eve's market was designed to be totally open, and limiting access to certain orders would destroy this open market principle.rather than changing the market, improvements should be made to the contract system. the csm will submit suggestions for this in a future meeting.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0018 0.0 sovereignty issuesccp has been discussing 0.0 and sovereignty internally for the past year and discussed many issues already. they found that player owned station  pos  warfare is a very limited mechanic, and that it revolves around the amount of dreadnoughts and other capital ships in the fleet, while small ships only serve as support instead of being able to accomplish small objectives on their own. the long-term plan for 0.0 warfare is to have multiple layers of goals and objectives instead of all fighting occurring over stations. this would allow small groups to have an impact on the game, instead of needing hundreds of ships to have influence in 0.0.nathan  ccp  said that he does not believe that current large-scale fleet combat is interesting for the participants, mainly due to focus fire.andrew  csm jade constantine  commented that current 0.0 pvp is siege warfare, people stick to established fortresses and do not venture beyond the gates. his suggestion was to include mechanics that encouraged sovereignty holders to patrol their space, and have ways for roaming gangs to peck at undefended systems and steal resources there.the issue of logistics was also discussed. alex stated that current pos logistics required an alliance to have powergamers that managed them around the clock. he proposed to make 0.0 appeal to a wider audience by removing these repetitive activities that required powergaming. shayne urged ccp to consider mechanics that would provide more synergy between the industrial and combat aspects of 0.0.ccp said that they would have to balance short term achievements to the long term empire building. if people could easily destroy in a day what took months to build up, this would be unfair. but on the other hand, it should not be too hard to smoke out established entities. they agreed however, that the current time sinks in pos warfare are too long.this issue has been put on the rolling agenda, and ccp asked the csm and the players to come up with concrete suggestions how to improve 0.0 warfare and sovereignty.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0019 contract improvementsccp stated that they have a dilemma, where contracting can on one hand be more effective where people have more options and better deals, or can be a back-alley trading system, where people can scam each other in the worst case on the other hand. ccp believes that the contract system could use some more utility, but should not grant players much more information, as a fully transparent and effective system would also limit the opportunities for players to make a profit. they want the csm and the players to think about the direction the contract system should take, and are open to suggestions and improvements.the 10% increment in bids is agreed to be too high a percentage, but it should not be too low either otherwise it would turn into 0.01 warfare. the csm is tasked to determine the appropriate percentage and relay it back to ccp, who will analyze it and adjust the percentage.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0020 public pos arraysaccording to ccp, making pos arrays public is technically impossible because the jobs require a local hanger and this would interfere with station ownership of the structures themselves. shayne  csm serenity steele  asked for different ways to address the lack of public slots.ccp plans to add more slots to npc stations, but with restrictions such as maximum job time to prevent people from easily clogging up all the available slots. eva  csm ankhesentapemkah  commented that there are a lot of industrial corporations that have set up a pos to get around the limited amount of slots and that they should not be robbed of their investments. according to her, an increase to the slots in npc stations would be welcome, but not by huge amounts.ccp said that price dynamics were removed when the new s&i system was implemented; they will look at reinstating it. in the distant future, more personalized structures might be added to the game that might also have a lab function.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0021 assembly array issuescolin  ccp  researched the balance in assembly arrays, and could report that efficient equipment assembly arrays will definitely receive an increase to slots with possible minor adjustments for other arrays as well, while all the material multipliers will be looked at.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0017 empire war dec mechanicsnoah  ccp  believes that the current wardec system amounts to a pay-to-grief system, and that ccp is interested in making war declarations deeper by adding mechanics such as victory conditions that would eventually end wars. valentijn  csm dierdra vaal  commented that under the current system, the defender has no control over the war and the attacker can keep it up indefinitely as long as they keep paying the bills. he also observed that there currently is no determined end goal to the war itself.matt  ccp  stated that wardecs are necessary so corporations can attack each other<U+FFFD>s logistic chains in empire, but that there are often wars started without reason, simply to get random victims to gank and grief. the system should be balanced so that the first aspect is not hindered while the second aspect is deterred.eva  csm ankhesentapemkah  said that in any mmo, players should be allowed to group and organize in relative safety, while in eve this is deterred as grouping up makes you a target to attack. there is no safe way for players to get started in small scale groups this way. sean  csm darius johnson  suggested that it might be an option to scale consequences based on the sizes of the warring corporations.various csm members suggested to allow corporations to auction off the war to mercenaries, who would from that point on participate in the war. ccp understands that the current system needs work and thinks that involving mercenaries shows promise. no solid solution has been come up with but the issue is on the agenda.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0022 shares, dividends and stock marketeyj<U+FFFD>  ccp  understood the need for improving stock trading, but setting up the underlying infrastructure would be complex. he strongly believes that financial auditing and reporting should be dealt with by the players. however, this would result in problems with alts and accountability, as it would be hard to provide consequences to fraudulent characters.in eve, trust would also be a problem, as players are discouraged to trust other people with their investments as precedented by other game mechanics. this might mean that the whole stock market would ended up to be controlled by only a few individuals with sufficient reputation, while it would be impossible for new parties to get any kind of position in this system. ccp does not plan to build this system if only a few people will benefit from it.ccp encourages the csm and players to think about these issues and how players can be held accountable for financial audits and records, as well as come up with possible mechanics and solutions.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0024 experimental industry issues, long-term industry plansccp started off that they currently have plans to improve the interface for the science and industry windows, and that they are seriously considering more skills being available for the industry and manufacturing character types. they also plan to add skill requirements to blueprints. the new skills will allow characters to specialize down several branches and yield benefits to specific areas of manufacturing. hopefully we will see some of these features being implemented this winter.later on, ccp wants to have more item customizability, and bring meta-level into the equation, where special components could be included in the manufacturing process to give a boost to the produced item. fully dynamic items are a problem, because all item stats are static in the database so variations are impossible.eva  csm ankhesentapemkah  said that to have variations to ships, the special ship variant could come standard with a rig that influences the stats, a rig which cannot be produced separately and cannot be removed from the specific ship. this avoids a lot of balancing problems as specific rigs would only have to be available on specific ships, and would solve the database problem as all these rigs can be precreated and then applied to the ships to give them variable stats.charlie  csm lavista vista  was concerned with the introduction of new skill requirements; the barrier to entry might become too high and suggested this to be smoothened out.ccp also considered to break up t1 manufacture into individual components, as creating all these objects out of raw minerals is unrealistic.eva  csm ankhesentapemkah  commented that research should also be a lot more dynamic, as research is currently too static and predictable. she suggested having a more variable outcome, as well as unique and special rewards that could be obtained through researching. an example was to add tech 2 blue print originals as a very rare outcome of an r&d process, as well as other new and unique items.ccp noted that a large percentage of players never leaves high-sec, and wants to know from the csm how these players should be approached and if they should allocate more resources to create content for this type of player.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0025 game time code concernsccp told the csm that pricing of the game time codes is a business issue, and that eve might be more expensive than other mmos on the market because it is a premium product.the csm explained that there were three main concerns, the lack of the 30 day game time codes so that players were forced to make larger purchases at once, the price increase compared to the old game time codes, and the communication between marketing and the players  players did not buy the story . furthermore, eva  csm ankhesentapemkah  requested ccp to consider lowering the price of their 60 day game time code to 29.95, instead of 34.95 as it is now.ccp replied that the current 60 day game time code will likely become the standard in the near future, and that supporting separate products is more expensive. nevertheless, they will relay the complaints about the removal of the 30 day game time code to the marketing department. they are working on making more payment methods available for subscribers, so that players that previously used game time codes can use these methods to pay for eve instead.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0026 suicide gankingccp realized that even though they do not plan to remove suicide ganking completely, today's suicide gank mechanics are too biased in the ganker's favor, and they have set up a task force to look into suicide ganking and crime and punishment in general.for the short term, they plan to increase the security hit for crime in high-sec space and make sure that all ship kills will be counted as kills, with the matching sec hit, for everyone that participated. ccp also considers influencing the sec hit penalty based on the security status of the victim.mid term, the plans are to look into suicide ganking and the insurance payout, once they have made sure that new players are not impacted by this too much and have extra security in place so that accidents should not be punished.in the long term, they plan to have criminal records for players, with the appropriate consequences. tradable killrights are also on the table, to let players deal with criminals instead of just concord being responsible for security.alex  csm bane glorious  said that most suicide gankers already thought of ratting to regain security status as painful.because a lot of suicide ganking occurs from npc corporations, it was considered to move criminal offenders out of the npc corporations into pirate npc corporations if they committed too many crimes.eva  csm ankhesentapemkah  reacted to this that it could be standing based, like factional warfare, where a player would be ejected out of the militia if their standing with the faction became too low. various people added to this that criminals could lose standing with the faction where they committed their crimes in addition to the security status hit. as for the bounty system, it was suggested that the bounty could be paid out in parts, with the amount being paid out at a moment depending on the damage inflicted on the criminal, so that a criminal could still have bounty remaining after the first time he was killed.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0027 drone implantsccp is aware that there are no drone implants. the reason behind this is that there are only a few skills available to drone users, and that implants are often tied to skills. due to the demand, they will look into this and are likely to implement these implants in the future.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0036 small freightersa spaceship type that is somewhere between an industrial and a freighter is currently in development. abilities may include the use of cans and capital tractor beams, but design features are subject to change.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0034 linux clientthe prior information was not accurate, ccp is considering a closed beta for the linux client at some point in the future.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"changes to alternatesit was suggested to involve more alternates in the csm or to discharge uninterested alternates and appoint new ones, but the csm voted against these proposals, and no change was made to alternates.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"0010 5% voting issues  continued after discussing and evaluating several options, the csm voted to change the amount of required votes to bring a proposal to the csm from 5% of the playerbase to 25% of the amount of people that voted in the election, effectively lowering it to 2.75%.discuss this topicback to table of contents"
"priority listafter internal discussion, the following priority list was established by the csm. note that a few issues were only informally discussed, and thus not included in the minutes above.high priority:0004 black ops improvementsx jump bridges and cynojammers0029 eve-mail issues0019 contract improvements0018 0.0 sovereignty issues0013 skill page tweaks0007 double click function on avatarsmedium-high priority0026 suicide ganking0012 minimum size of hud elements0009 alliances and factional warfare0017 empire war decs0030 pvp wreck ownership0003 problems with aggression timer0001 skill queuemedium priority0016 switching all ammo at the same time0015 pilot avatar listing0002 bombs need a boost0039 roleplay storylines0028 forum issues and fixing0021 assembly array issues0022 shares and dividends issues0024 experimental industry issues0027 drone implants0036 small freighterx corp -> alliance synclow priority0006 pillageable outpostsx more corp standing slots0011 electronic warfare icons0033 color deficiency0014 personal assets and hud0038 buff large autocannonsrejected/unfeasable/completed0025 game time codes0020 public pos arrays0023 sell order availability0008 cargo hold sizediscuss this topicback to table of contents"
"a spaceship type that is somewhere between an industrial and a freighter is currently in development. abilities may include the use of cans and capital tractor beams, but design features are subject to change."
"the important thing is that it has at least one well-defined role and has the necessary capacity for that role, and that it doesn't displace anything else from its own unique role. at the moment, it sounds as though it's aimed squarely at mining ops, for people who want to move lots of ore at once without having to deploy a rorqual for 10 minutes."
"i used to be in favor of a 'mini-freighter', but not anymore. just fix the suicide ganking problem, so that people in empire can safely fill up their freighters again, and the need for another ship goes away. put a single slot or a built-in tractor/salvager and you've completely eliminated the need for another ship type."
"agree. my freighter alt didn't need to spend much time  rather isk, which is a smaller factor for an industrial/trade character  to get access to the freigther from industrial 5.if there's going to be a ship inbetween it's quite important its role is well-defined, just like kazuo mentioned. the rorqual has a unique role, mining-related. a mini-freighter with a capital tractor beam would lean towards that department. i'd be more interested in either seeing different versions of this mini-freighter, for different purposes.. or something that is more related to pure transporting. a 'bigger brother' of the blockade runners, perhaps, that can mount a small tank and/or have the possibility to self-repair  until help arrives or it reaches the gate . or give it a separate cargo space  like the carrier have cargo space, corp hangar, and ship hangar  that purely can be used to store fuel. in that example; say it has a base capacity that is equal to a rigged iteron mark 5, but it has the potential to carry a few hundred k m3 worth of fuel. isotopes, liquid ozone, and only that...something along those lines. give it a role."
"i'd like to see it be skill intensive, needing freighter 5 amongst others, but be useful for corps mining in high sec. making it skill intensive means there will still be plenty of people jetcan mining for those who enjoy that particular grief, but there would be an alternative for those who are more organised. is this the same ship some have discussed as a mini-rorqual? would be nice to have a mobile base of operations for miners, can mount capital tractors or something between capital/small, with a relatively large cargo hold, but less than half a freighter at least."
"i think ccp is referring to the orca. in one of their previous posts, they described this as something between a freighter and industrial, and its been stated this will be similar in function to the rorqual, meaning it will aid in mining ops, and provide a large cargo-hold."
"this suggestion could go down in flames, but it appears there is an opening here for something that has been discussed and that i personally think would be useful.in the universe of eve there are those who can afford, both in isk and skill-training time, to fly capital ships - and those who cannot.a ship capable of bridging these two opposites is potentially a new hauler.as it sits, the only realistic ways to get cargo past an enemy force, or a gate camp, are to go around, wait until later, prepare a larger opposing force or 'hope'.for corps with few players, trying to get established in 0.0 is a chore in itself. ccp states that they would love more players in 0.0, yet the more there are, the harder it is for smaller corps to 'get in' - and 'get out'.it doesn't matter if you have a 20 player corp, all determined to head to 0.0 to make their fortunes, if there's just going to be a 30 ship gate camp to contend with every time you want to move products into more lucrative selling systems.the larger alliances have a monopoly on lowsec space, since they can 'afford' to camp every route that is popular.yes, there are jump freighters and other capital ships that can greatly assist in avoiding these situations - but for the small corporation, just getting started, another option could be made available.a new ship that bridges the gap not only could be a hauler, but should be a hauler.there is such a wide variety of warships available, and so few haulers.in reality, we have the standard t1 haulers, the t2  cough  gate camp busters, freighters and jump-freighters.t1/t2 haulers dont stand a chance at a gate camp. freighters might fare better, but that is because they either a  jump past the camp, or b  manage to absorb enough damage to get away.freighters have a cost associated with them that is beyond the abilities of newer players, both in isk and skill training time.i propose a new hauler that has a mixture of both. a midsize ship with the ability to carry as much as a t1 hauler, maybe a bit more, but with the ability to cyno.a lower cost, combined with lower skill requirements, could make this ship a suitable in-between step between standard haulers and capitals.it would have the same capabilities of being destroyed at a gate camp as a t1/t2 hauler, but would have the added ability to avoid them by cyno jumping.basically, a cyno hauler that isn't a capital ship. a 'bustard with a cyno', so to speak.no fancy 'warp bubble proofing' or 'immune to electronic warfare'. just a small hauler with a jumpdrive.the black ops ships are a midway bridge between t1/t2 battleships and capital ships. if you can't afford the isk for a cap ship, or the skills, a black ops ship is a suitable step up. the transport pilots deserve a similar option.i like the fact that the hauler class pilots in eve are getting some much needed attention here. i just hope that a true 'step up' type of industrial ship is created.many of us had high hopes for the potential of the last industrial 'step up for the poor'. i, for one, couldn't wait to get into a bustard and 'finally have more of a chance to move past those 10 ship gate camps'.the bustard appeared, and the gate campers adjusted accordingly, by becoming 20-30-40 ship camps. bubbles didn't help either.i'm not suggesting that a new hauler be created that has the ability to 'skip past all danger', because if adding a jump drive to a hauler allows that, then the new jump freighters must fit that description as well  which they dont .i'm sure there are pilots who would be willing to pay well for such a ship. hauling, no matter how boring many pilots think it is, can be as much fun and profitable as any other profession. transportation of goods is half of eve, yet imho, it gets less than 1 percent of the attention it deserves.plus, the billions it costs for jump freighter right now is far out of reach for most.my two cents."
"as it is now, rorquals and carriers are cheaper than jump freighters, and are capable of fulfilling the same role. having transport ships that could cyno would likely render the jump freighter useless. sure, they would not haul as much, but for the price difference, you could have a few of these going all the time, and being much smaller and having the ability to cloak would make them quite survivable. meaning an alliance could keep these ships running all the time, and always transporting, with little to no protection required. as much as i would love it, i do not think it will happen. not to mention a ship with a jump drive is considered a capital ship, and therefore can not enter empire space. i think if there would to be any bonus to transporting, it would be through ore compression with the proposed orca. allowing ore compression in high sec would mean blockrade runners could carry more, and be more effective in terms of quantity carried."
"this is, of course, assuming that ore is what is being transported. self-sufficient corps have the capability of building anything in 0.0also, you mentioned major alliances running the small jump-transports  to give them a name  in quantity instead of the freighters. please do! that gives more targets to shoot at in the long run.there's really no big difference, and no imbalance that i can see. either have 1 big expensive ship carrying a lot of stuff, or multiple less expensive ships carrying less stuff. in reality, it would be cost-similar. pay 6 billion to haul 250k of stuff in 1 ship, or pay 600 million to haul 25k worth of stuff in a smaller ship. in the end, it's still 6 billion worth of isk in balance.this is just a way for the pilots/corps who dont happen to have 6 billion isk laying around that they can throw at a single ship to have the opportunity to partake in 0.0 a little easier."
"oh man! are we there yet? are we there yet? are we there yet?"
"i would love to see a hauler/mini freighter with about 100-200k m3 hold. personally my mk5 fully expanded serves me pretty well, but there are times where i would like to move my productr from the building system to the selling system and then the mk5 is not enough and buying a freighter with 900k m3 is just not effective for me so i have to wait on some of my friends to log on and get them to haul for me.the jump from haulers to freighters is to great as it is we need a ship in between that can serve us small scale builders"
"a sub-freighter sized hauler would be nice, especially if it's a \"stealth hauler\" - a hauler that can make use of the black op's covert jump bridge.  this would also allow covert gangs to go on extended missions with enough fuel, while being able to bring back the loot from those missions. note, i'm suggesting a different ship than a \"mini-me\" rorqual for high-sec mining ops."
"i support the idea of a middle range hauler. this shouldn't be a ship with a high sp requirement. instead, this should be aimed at a different market: players and small corps that need to haul 100-200k m3 of an item, but without the investment in a 1bil hauling ship. 100-200k cargohold, a few high/mid slots, 0-1 low slots, and a build cost of 300-400m would be great. it could be modestly tanked, use tractors for corp mining ops, and be accessible to more players."
"medium sized freighter isnt an issue, better do something with freighter gankers and problem solved. besides we already have freighters with smaller cargo bay called jump freighters.but yes there should be a ship with bonus to tractor beam  and salvager , but not a freighter, more likely a crusier/battlecrusier sized ship"
"ccp started off that they currently have plans to improve the interface for the science and industry windows, and that they are seriously considering more skills being available for the industry and manufacturing character types. they also plan to add skill requirements to blueprints. the new skills will allow characters to specialize down several branches and yield benefits to specific areas of manufacturing. hopefully we will see some of these features being implemented this winter.later on, ccp wants to have more item customizability, and bring meta-level into the equation, where special components could be included in the manufacturing process to give a boost to the produced item. fully dynamic items are a problem, because all item stats are static in the database so variations are impossible.eva  csm ankhesentapemkah  said that to have variations to ships, the special ship variant could come standard with a rig that influences the stats, a rig which cannot be produced separately and cannot be removed from the specific ship. this avoids a lot of balancing problems as specific rigs would only have to be available on specific ships, and would solve the database problem as all these rigs can be precreated and then applied to the ships to give them variable stats.charlie  csm lavista vista  was concerned with the introduction of new skill requirements; the barrier to entry might become too high and suggested this to be smoothened out.ccp also considered to break up t1 manufacture into individual components, as creating all these objects out of raw minerals is unrealistic.eva  csm ankhesentapemkah  commented that research should also be a lot more dynamic, as research is currently too static and predictable. she suggested having a more variable outcome, as well as unique and special rewards that could be obtained through researching. an example was to add tech 2 blue print originals as a very rare outcome of an r&d process, as well as other new and unique items.ccp noted that a large percentage of players never leaves high-sec, and wants to know from the csm how these players should be approached and if they should allocate more resources to create content for this type of player."
"i like all of these ideas. particularly the t1 come from components. these components should be easy to make have very low skill requirements and be cheep to make  this helps the barrier of entry that lavista vista is worried about . this would give new players a great place to start and since it would be quite a hassle to make the large number for a sizable t1 ship building operation they could be sold on the market to advanced players who need an enormous amount to build t1 bs and bc.one question i have is whether the variable stats ships would still have the normal 2 or 3 rig slots? i would say that t1 ships should have 1 slot taken by the variation rig and 2 available slots, and t2 ships  if variation is even possible on these ships  would have 1 available rig slot with 1 taken by the variation rig. i'd like to see variable mods too, but as you say that could be difficult to implement i'm not really sure of any solutions."
"i think there's space on the ui for up to 8 rig slots if it's ever needed, and this would be an excellent way of creating item variants, especially if it could be extended so that modules themselves could be rigged. i suppose it'd have to be done via a massive calibration cost and a role bonus for ship that'd make it the only ship able to fit it."
"although i applaud the initiative of ccp to ask about this, i'm uncertain what kind of action is being taken?is this one of the cases where the csm is tasked to discuss the matter and report their findings to ccp? or was there an actual answer during the session? or is this all we'll ever hear about this.. ok.. i seriously doubt that part..  thanks for any answers,-ranges"
"i strongly disagree with the idea of t2 bpos, even a very small chance of getting one would give the lucky individual/corp a huge financial advantage. however, it would be nice to be able to get t2 bpcs from research agents.i really like the idea of building t1 items from components, as long as it didn't affect the finial cost of the item by too much. a component that didn't cost very much to build would be a good place for a low-skilled industrialist to start. currently small/medium ammo is the only place a non-maxed skill industrialist has a chance; and there is very little market in that."
"i like the bpc idea, although i do have a problem with the risk of dumbing down invention  it's not that clever right now  by providing out of the box bpc's to datacore alts. because seriously, how many people actually play the characters that provide their datacores? i'm very concerned about this part. if those components are not constructed by players from minerals, it would be a serious blow to the miners. those people  god help me if i have to mine  are active subscribers, and i don't see a need to screw them over.. oh.. anything i didn't quote, i agreed with :"
"i think that the t1 components would be built from raw minerals thus the actual cost remains about the same, but there is just an extra step."
"also, i don't think that the barrier-to-entry for industrialists is all that high, except that you *must* max your production efficiency to compete. but once you have that you can pretty much make anything you want.i would like to see something that encourages industrialists to specialize. skill requirements and component requirements would help to diversify the market, and thus encourage industry in general."
"i find the component aspect interesting as well. as those above stated, as long as the components were manufactured from raw minierals, miners will still be in the picture  i mine a great deal in addition to manufacturing .however, you may now have manufacturing slots in hi-sec even more jammed as they can become from time to time, with people running build jobs for the components, as well as building actual t1 items. i'd think some serious thought would need to go into adding more manufacturing slots, or maybe even a seperate line of slots used only for the manufacture of components."
"good to hear that the industrial side of things may not go neglected for much longer. i particularly like the notion of t1 components, but please, address research & build slot issues first; getting blueprints & jobs done for existing items is time-consuming enough without adding more load to the number of npc slots  to think about the lone or small-scale research & build groups .obviously i'd want to see the stats after fw has been out for a while to see if this percentage has remained the same.i'm going to assume that given the placement of this question that there is an implicit assumption here that not going into low-sec/null-sec implies not engaging in pvp  whether directly or as a target , given the industrial slant of the rest of the topic. granted you can pvp in high-sec, but clearly the risks are different, and more importantly, perceived differently.as an aside, i'd be interested to see a comparison between that and npc corp membership  i.e. how many in the npc corps excluding militia do or do not enter low-sec etc. . that gives you true data on the 'risk-averse' membership.seems to me you have three choices - provide more incentives for them to pvp, which fw began, and potentially risk alienating the more hardcore players who already cry that eve is being dumbed down, or cater to those that just don't want to get involved in the pvp, or provide more non-pvp reasons for them to go to that space and potentially be a target.i know numerous players, including my partner who got bored and quit eve, who like nothing more than the industrial side of eve, which is vital for the pvp part anyway. they don't mind the notion that others put their products to good use in blowing each other up, but it doesn't appeal to them. i'd go so far as to say this is a good thing, in that if everyone was obsessed with pvp and killboards, who'd mine and build stuff?ultimately having a combat game and an industrial game merged into one is going to set two fundamentally different playstyles at loggerheads  assuming black and white, of course, not everyone is purely one or the other . i'd like to see real recognition of the industrial side by ccp, not just in updates but in wording, marketing, a promoting of that part of the game instead of it being relegated to 'bunch of carebears' by the pvpers that don't get where their ships come from. treat it as a first class citizen and the birthplace of pvp, and you might just get the attention of those you're trying to reach."
"why don't a large portion of industrialists leave high-sec?they don't need to. there are people willing to do that for them. they can sit in an npc corp and remain immune to wardecs. minerals and the market come to them. why would they need to leave hi-sec, let alone undock?"
"i think if a large part of ccp's paying customerbase never leaves high-sec it'd be foolish not to create content to cater to them, either that create more content to induce players to leave empire space and try lowsec/0.0 and perhaps change the perception that exists in a lot of player's minds that goes something like this:\"0.0 is pointless. it is 100% dominated by a handful of huge alliances who have no interest in new members. if they catch you in their territory, they'll pod you to teach you a lesson to never come back  and for laughs .\""
"the s.a.s. dont bake cakes!!! please excuse me if i seem to go in circles. i have trouble explaining things. the only problem i have with industrial skills, is that it take alot less time for someone to be in a position to perform manufacture/research than it does to join a fleet and go hunting. it took me 2 or 3 weeks to learn how to use a gun in real life  i'm ex forces , im sure it would take me a hell of a lot longer to learn particle physics.imho, i think a huge great wedge should be driven between the industrialists, and the combatants. skills for industry should be made longer to train and should also match the prices of skills required to pvp. for example...a modulated deep core strip miner takes just a month to train for, however, a 425mm rail gun 2, can take about half a year to train. comparing a rorqual and a chimera for example, the rorqual takes half the time at around 160 days, than its combat counter-part. the rorqual should have cap ind ship skill with a long list of pre-req's, and the chimera should have cap ship with long list of combat skills. the rorq should not have to train cap ships first, but instead cap ind ships being its equvalant for players on the industry path. the 2 skills together cost approx 800mil. which also means the chimera/combat pilots only have to pay half the cost than those struggling in the industry arena. which mean a rorq is twice as more likley to go pop than a chimera  no stats to back that up agreed the early stages of mining  as with early pvp stages  should only take a few days, just enough to get people on their feet while deciding what route to take. once decided the skills should become longer to train. what would this do to eve? although there are probably many factors that i may have missed... i believe that by clearly defining the different 'trades', eve will achieve its goal of moving people out to 0.0 into the allainces and would make for a much more interesting game. players would have to activly escort their indutrialists instead of the old 'we're gonna go mish/grief...give us a shout if you get into trouble', thus bringing those that choose industry over pvp in order to provide a well needed service, will not just have the dull grinding sound of high sec to log onto, but will be able to participate in the action and excitment that exists elsewhere.the fact that industry is specialized would also make for better marketing. the skills required to manufacture would become less common among players and would allow those that spend hours on mining ops, and more months training s&i, to actually make a good amount of profit from the sale of their manufactured goods, as do the combatants currently who are rolling around in cap ships running lvl 5 missions. at present i only know of one person in the game who has never gone below 0.5 and has a full blown indy corp, with a few bil in her wallet, compared to multitude of combatants who are a plenty, who have carriers and billions. the point im getting at here is that industry holds not profit.this would also mean that industrialists could afford to run a pos for research and manufacture. thus lightening the load on the npc s&i slots, both because the industrialists have their own pos's, and also because it will take a combatant a substantial amount of time to also train for s&i, thus again reducing the number of slots in use. in summary, it would increase the strategy in eve  protection, logistical strikes , would allow the market to become more 'real'  for example, if every company in the world made online games, eve may not have so many subscribers, or at least it would be harder to compete , it would draw players to get involved in the allainces/0.0 wars and strategies, it would promote teamwork and tactical play, reduce the waiting time for s&i slots, reward those who choose industry, trade agreements for example, and maybe lots more."
"i like the idea of skills for various blueprints, i worry about the idea of componentizing blueprints for the most part, mostly because it'd screw with everyone who took out me research on them. but if they made sure that the top component was at least in a group of 300 or so, that should mean that most of the bigger blueprints would still be under-perfect it's rare to see battleships with me>50, for example . titans with 550 of a kind seem a much better model than carriers with 11, mostly because points of me don't take months on smaller ships. also, i don't want to see this applying to gear - ships only. t1 gear should be easy to make for anybody with the skills for it."
"sorry for double post.....the stip miner and 425 are what i consider to be each others counterparts for their particualr 'trade' routes.the times for training were calculated by saving my toons xml file in eve mon, editing it to remove skills and making each attribut at 5. then reloading it as a fake toon into eve mon."
"t2 bpo's are probably a very bad idea... they can be hugely influential to the market.as for removing t1 modules from npc? great idea!components for production? check there as well!differentiation in produced modules? woot!"
"i missed the bit about t2 bpos. the only way i could support them is if you implemented a rp store to buy them in, but in all likelihood the costs would be far too high to be justifiable - rp is currently worth maybe 4000 per, and a good t2 bpo is worth as much as 20 billion. nobody can put together 5 million rp, even if it's pooled inside a corp the way lp is. selling t2 bpcs in a rp store might be interesting, but the inventors would be very unhappy with such a scheme, and justifiably so. if i wanted to come up with a crazy scheme, i'd suggest the ability to do some really hardcore invention-style process to turn a t1 bpo into a t2 bpo, but i can't think of how to make that work sensibly. perhaps even an auction scheme, if inflation ever becomes a problem, but that'll just serve to make the rich richer, which isn't a great goal either. sadly, the lottery might actually be the best way to introduce t2 bpos to the market. and given that we all know how that worked out, it's probably best not to touch those ever again."
"agreed, bpo were just not that great, and i think they really take the work out of actually doing any t2 industry. invention really makes building stuff fun, at least is does for me."
"i was very happy to see this comment:ccp noted that a large percentage of players never leaves high-sec, and wants to know from the csm how these players should be approached and if they should allocate more resources to create content for this type of player.yes!!! - more resources should be allocated to create content for this type of player.i dont know how much of eve this player type makes up, but i assure you that it is a massive proportion on the entire mmorpg player base outside of eve. personally; after 2 years and 2 accounts; ive hit a wall with eve where i cant advance any further or train any higher in high sec. there is nothing exciting to train for, all the missions are too easy as it is, and im board.like a lot of the high-sec crowd, im interested in advancing, collecting and growing more powerful, but there is nothing much to do.like most, im a solo player with fiends, in a small corp. i enjoy cooperative play, but the missions are too easy, i have no interest in pvp unless its just for fun among friends with no real consequences. i enjoy social networking. im an adult and i cant commit to anything in-game that takes longer than a hour or so in one sitting. i think that the most difficult challenge for the eve designers is going to be in the balancing between the high-sec and low-sec player types.tbh: id be happy with a pve server and more content. at the moment i feel as though im a second-class player in a pvp game."
"what he said ^^^^^^^^^!!!!!and yes i would like a chance at a tech ii bpo again!! and yes more high sec content, i like pve and i will never go to low sec to be blown up up the gankers and pvpers!!i have never played wow so i can not go back there...i have played eve for over 4 years and no you can not have my stuff..."
"this is by far the single best solution to dynamic ship creation i've heard."
"i don't see what the problem is with producing the rig separately, as long as only the intended ship s  are able to fit it.people would do more production in 0.0 if the margins justified it. this would happen fairly quickly if it became too expensive to produce most items in empire space - i'm strongly in favour of escalating fees for using npc manufacturing slots, in a similar way to how offices currently work, so that the fees become a significant part of the costs of empire manufacturing - perhaps almost 100% of the costs for ammo or modules, say."
"noah  ccp  informed the csm that it was the intention for bombs to be used to break up on-grid blobs. ccp is aware that the current system is not entirely balanced out, but that it was better to introduce bombs in a pre-nerfed state and boost them later rather than implementing them in an overpowered fashion.alex  csm bane glorious  suggested that one of the main issues with bombs is the cost of these weapons, and that the cost should be reduced, while the required cargo space should be unaffected so that people cannot carry huge amounts of these weapons. another suggestion was to increase damage done to large targets.andrew  csm jade constantine  pointed out that stealth bomber vulnerability was an issue as well, and that it might be necessary to improve the range of bombs.noah  ccp  agreed to hand this issue to the ccp balancing team."
"i don't have a good suggestion other than reducing the price tag.add in the fact that you can't use them in highsec or lowsec, and they're almost completely useless. they're a novelty weapon for a novelty ship.maybe if stealth bombers could actually bomb steathily  warp cloaked  and the ammo didn't cost more the ship and have a 10+ day training time on a skill that doesn't provide any bonus to the bomb, people would use them.they were introduced pre-nerfed so hard i've yet to see one ever used."
"\o/"
"i was tempted to create a new subject on this but decided that it should be under bomb boosts however it is a radical proposal.  i'm in the bombs needing a boost plan more damage , less cost it is apparent the 0.0 blob warfare for better or worse  worse really  is a part of fw, which was supposed to encourage smaller gang warfare objectives. since the bombs were originally designed as a tool to help break-up on grid blobs ccp should consider:allowing the use of bombs in lowsec.... with a proviso or two.1. only faction warfare militias should be allowed to do this. from an rp perspective since concord has sanctioned combat between militias, the use of bombs would seem a logical extension of this.  it could be argued about interdiction spheres but i think those have made combat worse not better  though i would still disallow them in high sec, the greifing-play probability is just too high.2. sec status hits for hitting non combatants and fellow militia pilots should still apply.  it would probably be too difficult to implentment an exception for friendly fire  unless you made bombers specifically immune from bomb effects.  and i'm just throwing that out there  orremoving sec hits for members of the same gang/fleet when using aoe weapons.  a bigger issue  this theoretically could apply for smartbombs as well since fw rules severely limit their use as well.of course if the bombs aren't boosted then the above is moot but its just a thought. now that i don't play in 0.0 too much any more it saddens me that that one more thing that gimps the use of one of my favorite ships.  i also think that bombers should be able to warp cloaked but that is another can o' worms "
"i love the idea of bombs, have seen them used  completely ineffectivly by the way  and have trained and built a pile for myself to try.but i gotta admit it all seem like a total waste of time and isk. its a great concept which could actually reduce the tendency to blob. unfortunately it is a totally impractical implementation at the moment.the present concept is similar to the wwii dive bombers, with accuracy and speed totally dependant on the stealth bomber's trajectory. perhaps making them more similar to a rocket-propelled bomb where you could fire it off in a general direction and have it home in on a ship or shiptype with a self-propelled velocity increase would make them more useful.warping when cloaked would infringetoo much on the covert ops ships. but perhaps a signature reduction to the stealth bomber or another means to make it harder to lock would work."
"reduce their pricetag, and dont force the sb's to remain uncloaked before the bomb hits."
"indeed the damage should be boosted as well, as it states the bombs only take out frigatte size vessels for sure - in the times of hp buffer tanks most cruisers could withstand a hit - we do not even talk about t2 resists. also the stealthbomber itself always has to see, that he survives the attack - increase useabillity."
"qft, the survivability of the stealth bomber is all about stealth, its about decloaking, firing a volley, then cloaking before you're locked. a stealth-bomber, can't survive an impending battleship fleet, even for those crucial 15 seconds unless its difficult to lock."
"as there are several different kinds of bombs, i find the blob removal gimik hard to envision under the present method of delivery. a bomb should behave like a bomb. ie: it should make a mess of anything in its imediate vacinity. i dont think cost is an issue. if the thing works and gets the job done, then the cost is justified.bombers are definitly another topic and i firmly believe that they need some serious make over, right from the skills on up. stealth? where? one good thing though - repairs are cheap. all you need is some white glue and a roll of tissue paper."
"i've said it from day one :bombs will never work  as intended right now they are worthless - but make them not worthless, and they are instantly overpowered.because if they can split up a blob, they can also kill a small gang.something other than bombs are needed - on paper a nice idea, but in practice you either get useless or overpowered."
"eyj<U+FFFD>  ccp  understood the need for improving stock trading, but setting up the underlying infrastructure would be complex. he strongly believes that financial auditing and reporting should be dealt with by the players. however, this would result in problems with alts and accountability, as it would be hard to provide consequences to fraudulent characters.in eve, trust would also be a problem, as players are discouraged to trust other people with their investments as precedented by other game mechanics. this might mean that the whole stock market would ended up to be controlled by only a few individuals with sufficient reputation, while it would be impossible for new parties to get any kind of position in this system. ccp does not plan to build this system if only a few people will benefit from it.ccp encourages the csm and players to think about these issues and how players can be held accountable for financial audits and records, as well as come up with possible mechanics and solutions."
"could start by just allowing shares to be able to track through journal, and the ability to contract/trade them securely.at the very least ccp could maybe consider this functionality?"
"some simple ideas that may help, make all corps that sell stock, have their financial records open to the public the way real corps do. also have all stock pay out and selling set, if the corp says they pay 10% of their stocks value, make the corp pay 10% even if that means that the corp's account go under also don't allow members to leave a corp until the corp balance is back above 0isk, or possibly draw from any member that has financial control in the corp, leaving them with more responsibility to their stock holders , or have it draw from \"all\" the corp members personal accounts this will also push corps that sell stock to work together , this will deter corps from pulling their funds from the stock holders.also stock value should depend on profits from sells on the market and through contracts not player run audits, it wouldn't be that hard to make a financial algorithm that totaled the values of items made and sold based on in corp players skills!i would also like to see more in the area of accountability, i am a stock holder in several corps and i have found that most corps don't even pay dividends, so stock value is basically what some plays says they want to sell the stock they own in a corp. which means that corp stocks are being sold from player to player, and the only person that makes any profit is the corp, because even if they only get 1 isk/per stock without some kind of payout they make all profit!"
"contracting shares would be all that is required to make a more secure method available. the community would then be in a good position to make externally supported stock markets using the api key much they way that ebank does now with isk. the potential for scams is still there which is a good thing too."
"corp shares are one of my pet peeves. at present there is only one form of corp ownership: total solo dictatorship. whoever owns 51% of the shares effectively owns 100%, and those with less own nothing.for example, in the recent disbanding of my old corp, vendetta underground, i owned 23% of the total shares. yet the ceo was able to take all of the corp assets as his personal property and my 23% had no value at all. since i had decided not to follow what i thought was a corrupt and inept leader, i wanted to cash in the shares accumulated as rewards for years of service to the corp. instead, all the share ownership did was allow me to see the theft being committed by my ceo, but not to challenge it.it shure would be nice if there was a way that individuals could invest in a corp and be secure in their investment. trusting anyone in eve is the stupidest thing you can ever do, so that's out. we need a game-enforced method for share ownership to be a tangible asset invulnerable to theft."
"turn shares into something that we can contract.everything else will sort itself out."
"this is already the case as embodied by egse brokers. as stock market itself is far to complex even for real life professionals to police, thus i agree that it should be off the agenda. however not being able to transfer shares in a method secure for both parties is a crime that continues to this day. shame on you for not even admitting to your negligence on this.until secure trading includes shares, all discussion is pointless and you, ccp, empower only few with reputations at the cost of everything else."
"i'm not sure how much it'd help, but one thing i'd like to see a well-trusted character do is become an auditor for public corporations. you don't need to run it, just monitor the books. it'd probably help stave off a lot of scamming."
"where have you been? it's been happening for months dude and there are multiple characters who do it. pop your head into the market discussions forum one day, it's a whole new world in there."
"not a part of the game i play, sorry. i stand corrected."
"ccp made it clear that there are technical issues in the way of destroying outposts  running science/industry jobs, market, players and property in station, etc , and that it would require a major overhaul to a lot of aspects of the game to make destructible outposts possible. therefore it will not be feasible to destroy outposts.andrew  csm jade constantine  said that there should be more risk associated to 0.0 presence, and that it currently is too hard to remove an established 0.0 entity. it is too hard to inflict lasting damage.ccp replied that the csm should look at other ways to accomplish what destructible outposts would.andrew  csm jade constantine  continued that instead of a total removal of outposts, they could be put into a 'derelict' mode, where normal processes would finish and all items and players would remain onboard, but no new services could be initiated.various csm members said that there currently are a lot of useless outposts littering 0.0, and that it would be nice to destroy or disable the outposts and raid them for supplies, so that land could be left fallow, and a reward is gained from pillaging these outposts."
"victory in 0.0 wars is never 'partial' victory. one side is completely beaten and kicked out. if you allow outposts to be destroyed, then a super-blob  such as max or mc's northern adventure  will simply destroy all the infrastructure over entire areas. picture bob's 300+ capitals making a round-trip of 0.0: there would be no stations left in 0.0 when they were done, and no reason to be in that 0.0 space. that's bad.i would support, however, the repair of the station and station services via npc consumable items instead of just remote repairers. for example, a damaged outpost might need goods like hydrogen batteries or electronics to be returned to operation. this would prevent free repairs of stations once the big bad blob moved on, and provide a market/small gang opportunity to supply/interdict the needed repair items.in extreme cases i could even see people abandoning stations as the cost/ease to repair becomes prohibitive."
"just curious, but what about the limit on one per system. this would allow some outposts to be abandoned and new ones built. perhaps a system to allow an outpost to fall apart over time and be salvaged. i remove adding an unanchor function to them because i think it would be too prone to abuse."
"outposts  op  destroyable by players is simply too prone to abuse  see above posts .the ideal  but most likely impractical  solution would be dismantling it due to dis-use - same as vacant buildings eventually fall in on themself.the ways to meassure op dis-use is definatly not trivial though - and probably moot for that reason.a \"quick-fix\" to ensure that space doesnt end up with op's all over the place would be to simply put in a hard lilmit on how long an op stays in space.say two years as an example.an op is an investment, and if you can't see it paying of in two years, don't build it in the first place * that might in itself cut down on the numbers build? *  theres of course other reasons than just isk to build outposts - but the argument still holds. are those reasons worth the outlay? if yes, it'll get build, else not."
"ccp said that this issue has been brought up in the past, but has been rejected due to performance reasons. moving items around causes a heavy load on the servers and making guns easier to reload might encourage players to do it even more frequently. there are concerns that during large fleet battles, all ammunition will be changed at the call of a fleet commander, which would cause an enormous spike on the servers.however due to the popularity of this feature, ccp will confer with the server/database teams to see if this feature can be implemented and how it would affect performance."
"must put in my two cents on this one being amarr.it would be 'nice' to see the feature implemented as currently trying to change crystals can be a pain in the arse where by changing from one to another, plus tryin to avoid the annoying unload to cargo option and various others is a pain.though i can also see the problem with the spikes the server would suffer from so heres only a suggestion.is it possible to have a shortcut for the change of ammo or a form of devision in the cargos of ships for it so you can put your ammo into a form of catagory, e.g. slots for ammo then via short cuts you can chage it. even if you had a sort of multiple slot layout for ammo e.g. every gun being loaded with two or three types of ammo and the player must click on the type for each gun to choose it. only a suggestion but it could work :ddak's"
"a staggered reload would be ok with me as long as i clic switch"
"if this database excuse was really true, then why can 1400mm artillery only hold 10 rounds of emp?"
"a very welcome feature.this will affect pve  i guess  more than it does affect pvp, because in pvp you always have a very specific role while running level 4 missions often really calls for two  or, in my case, three  types of ammunition... long range t2, short range t2 for taking out those nasty battleship rats and standard / faction ammunition for removing the blobs of cruisers.how about some \"update ... where ... = ...\"?"
"i've given an idea of both reducing client and server overhead in my post here on the features and suggestions section."
"i am so supportive of this i just don't have words. even a staggered \"reload all\" would be nice."
"hmmmpphhh.....i love the idea, but maybe they can slightly adjust the idea with an added time, but not quite the full time it would take to normally switch. ya know, instead of 10 seconds for switching per weapon, maybe 20 total, for all weapons."
"sorry but no. most pvpers carry more then 1 type of ammo, i personally like to carry 3-4 different types"
"sounds like they're confusing the results with the implementation.we can already switch manually one at a time.why not make a function that does that? right clicking every highslot, the meticulously selecting the the new type is a tedious usability problem. the client could simply request it on the behalf of the user.unless shortening the time between change requests would actually cause a performance problems. but i'm already pretty quick at kicking them off.not to mention it's infuriating to mis click the wrong type and have to reload that one again.but not surprisingly, usability takes a huge back seat to everything for some reason."
"umm, this already happens during fleet battles, the fc will commonly announce 'guys we're warping in at 20km range, load your antimatter/emp/multifrequency'. the only difference is that currently we have to click each weapon individually to swap out the ammo types, and surely its more of a server load if each player is going through the process of click gun 1 > swap ammo > click gun 2 > swap ammo > click gun 3 > swap ammo.....through a whole rack of guns, rather than a single select all > swap ammo option?"
"i understand the concerns ccp has, but frankly, i don't care. making a simple, common action take as much as 8x as long as it should to cut down on lag slightly is a terrible solution, and user-unfriendliness should never be encouraged. the single most overdue ui fix, which is saying quite a lot."
"weapon groupingone button to fire all weapons grouped together, one button to reload them, one button to change ammunition type.but....for turret groups of the same type calculations could be run for one turret and multiplied by the number of turrets in the group. resulting in 6-7 times less load in many cases. when loading ammo only a single transaction is made. the group grabs x ammo for it's y turrets, all of whom will have fired the same number of shots, meaning only one transaction takes place.one issue i can see here is with t2 and faction crystals. this should be solvable by having each crystal loaded to the weapon group take damage simultaneously  balanced to provide the same number of shots/crystal on average as now . crystals with the same amount of damage could be made to stack, and a weapon group would only load it's turrets with such crystals if there are enough crystals in one stack to load all turrets.currently turret firing eight turrets is basically:firing and damage calculation and application of stat changes for turret 1firing and damage calculation and application of stat changes for turret 2firing and damage calculation and application of stat changes for turret 3firing and damage calculation and application of stat changes for turret 4firing and damage calculation and application of stat changes for turret 5firing and damage calculation and application of stat changes for turret 6firing and damage calculation and application of stat changes for turret 7firing and damage calculation and application of stat changes for turret 8i'd have thought server load would be decreased if, when all turrets are the same to have:firing and damage calculation multiplied by 8 and application of stat changes for turret group 1[tl;dr: add weapon grouping and have it essentially make groups of the same weapon into one big gun with one big ammo hold.]"
"i could live with that too."
"just multiplying 1 turret's result across all 8 is a horrible idea. do you want to be on the opposite side of the bs that manages to get 8 wrecking hits all at once?however, reloading all 8 at once is a great idea."
"nope, but i'd love to be facing the battleship who gets 8 misses 1 km into falloff. i've got nothing against making damage burstier - it's a good counter to the successive hp buffs. it's not like even 8x 1400mm artys wrecking will actually kill you."
"ccp has been discussing 0.0 and sovereignty internally for the past year and discussed many issues already. they found that player owned station  pos  warfare is a very limited mechanic, and that it revolves around the amount of dreadnoughts and other capital ships in the fleet, while small ships only serve as support instead of being able to accomplish small objectives on their own. the long-term plan for 0.0 warfare is to have multiple layers of goals and objectives instead of all fighting occurring over stations. this would allow small groups to have an impact on the game, instead of needing hundreds of ships to have influence in 0.0.nathan  ccp  said that he does not believe that current large-scale fleet combat is interesting for the participants, mainly due to focus fire.andrew  csm jade constantine  commented that current 0.0 pvp is siege warfare, people stick to established fortresses and do not venture beyond the gates. his suggestion was to include mechanics that encouraged sovereignty holders to patrol their space, and have ways for roaming gangs to peck at undefended systems and steal resources there.the issue of logistics was also discussed. alex stated that current pos logistics required an alliance to have powergamers that managed them around the clock. he proposed to make 0.0 appeal to a wider audience by removing these repetitive activities that required powergaming. shayne urged ccp to consider mechanics that would provide more synergy between the industrial and combat aspects of 0.0.ccp said that they would have to balance short term achievements to the long term empire building. if people could easily destroy in a day what took months to build up, this would be unfair. but on the other hand, it should not be too hard to smoke out established entities. they agreed however, that the current time sinks in pos warfare are too long.this issue has been put on the rolling agenda, and ccp asked the csm and the players to come up with concrete suggestions how to improve 0.0 warfare and sovereignty."
"perhaps a mechanic like the factional warfare one could be introduced.lets say you can add a new level of sovereignty called \"constellation sovereignty\" that would be based on the sov level of the systems in that constellation. now each level would make the pos in that constellation harder to kill in some way  increased resits, more hp, etc... .now in order to lower the constellation sov an invading force could take compounds as in fw. each might have a gate that limits cap ships from coming in, though not anything smaller then bs  this is 0.0, no need to limit the gangs  each can be taken by only a single ship if he says in the area for the right amount of time. this could give black ops a role without changing the ship and force defenders to roam and patrol.of course the specifics could be changed but i think the general idea would work to force players to escalate the conflict rather then just invade with capital ships."
"i like the idea of layers, with each layer being somehow interdependant on the others - like small gang objectives making pos logistics easier/harder, or pos networks enhancing the ability of subcapital gangs to do their thing.overall the benefits of sovereignty need to be spread out so instead of just being based on an alliance's pos network, they are also derived from small gang pvp action. that way when you go to attack an enemy it isn't just about sieging poses, but also about dominating subcapital pvp. that could even be further divided into small gang vs subcapital fleet objectives, so that when you assault an enemy you have small gangs achieving disparate objectives, a large subcapital fleet attacking something else, and capitals sieging poses."
"first, remove soveraignty effects from pos altogether, for now.change this to a \"soveraignty points\" type of system similar  but not identical  to the factional warfare \"victory points\" system.\"sov points\"  sovp  gained or lost past a certain treshold in a system would be used to enable an increase or a decrease of soveraignty level in that certain system.the methods for which one can gain or lose sovp change depending on sov level  from 0 to 4 .for instance...sov0  no owner  could mean anybody can gain sovp for their alliance in that system.sovp would be earned by completing exploration complexes  most points, value depends on complex size and type , destroying belt rats  depending on rat size, but less overall than complexes , mining ore  even less point gain  and extracting moon minerals  negligible pointsm but still, some points .whenever any alliance reaches a certain preset treshold  which could vary depending on truesec of system , some event-type complex is generated there next dt. if they manage to keep the area clear of any intruders for longer than any intruders are present  on top of occasional local type of npc spwans which usually show up when intruders also show up , they gain sov1 next dt.sov1 and so on will keep the same methods of gaining sovp as sov0 gains, but in addition to that, one would also gain sovp by destroying alliance war target ships in that particular system. neutral ships have no effect on sovp gains.the only way to lose sovp would be if any war target ship gains any sovp  and they gain them the same way as they would with sov0, on top of gaining some more for destroying local sov-holding alliance ships .if enough sovp are lost, the previous \"sov0-to-sov1\" event complex is spawned again next dt, but only sov1 holder alliance and their wartargets matter in determining presence.when/if the sov1 holding alliance reaches the next upper treshold in sovp, they need to put up at least one pos. at random, one pos in system is designated as \"primary / sov2 event\" and needs to be defended  i.e. no reinforced mode  for a certain period of time. sov owners can not re-assign primary pos status to any other pos manually.if the \"primary / sov2 event\" pos is not put into reinforced for a certain time and sovp treshold is maintained, sov 2 is gained.once in sov2, each dt, if the \"primary\" pos is still up and was not in reinforced the last day, a decent amount of sovp are gained, on top of all the other sovp earning methods.sovp will be lost if the pos was in reinforced mode, and even more sovp will be lost if the primary pos is destroyed or manually dismantled by the sov owners. a new primary pos will be automatically and randomly be designated on next dt if sovp balance is positive and any pos remains in the system ; if none remain sov level automatically gets reverted to sov1.if enough sovp are lost, the \"sov1-to-sov2\" event will be held again at the \"primary\" pos. failure reverts system to sov1.sov3 is only gained if sov2 is maintained in at least 75% of the constellation systems, on top of maintaining a \"sov2-to-sov3\" sovp treshold in at least 50% of the constellation systems for a certain period of time, while also owning an outpost in the constellation.sov3 grants small amounts of sovp in each constellation system each dt even if unoccupied.once sov3 is gained, it can only be lost if sovp treshold levels get reduced below sov3 requirements in all systems in the constellation - even if all but one of the poses of the sov owner get dismantled.once that is true, individual systems become vulnerable for sov1-to-sov2 type conditions at their primary pos.if the \"events\" are lost in at least 66% of the occupied systems  i.e. 66% of primary poses get placed in reinforced mode , sov3 is lost on next dt.sov4 reached on treshold sovp levels in each system of the constellation, no events needed. extra sovp in all systems per dt granted."
"i'm not sure removing poses from sovereignty is a good idea. i still think that poses should be the final fortress, they just need some form of escalation and should not be part of the escalation. your idea is also really complex; i think a simplification is in order, but once pos is removed from your idea it is quite similar to mine and not near as complex, just to take final control of the system you have to use the current pos mechanics.this also allows players to \"spread out.\" why have 100 bs in just sitting there when you could roam around and start capturing the next constellation?"
"the poses are only removed from sov1 conditions.sov2 conditions only require one pos from the sov1 owners, even if the enemies have placed dozens already - they have to remove sov1 first before getting their own sov1 instead, so they can gain sov2 via pos.sov3 conditions include sov2 conditions but on a wider scale, and also promote more significant usage of outposts ; it only makes sense that an outpost would be required for the cynojammer network to operate.sov4 is basically just a sov3 that's maintained and reinforced for a while - you gain it by simply being active in constantly patrooling and defending your sov3 constellation.it only sounds complicated, it's really simple - most of what you see above is just technical details.it basically comes down to this :* sov 0  no sov  - first one to establish a presence gets a chance to grab the system* sov 1  basic presence  - only people that declare war on you can take that sov 1 away - if you can maintain your presence against wartargets, you get a chance for sov 2* sov 2  base of operations  - in systems with stronger presence, if you can defend your \"base of operations\"  one pos , you get the next sov level* sov 3  constellation superiority  - you have long-time uncontested bases of operations spread out across most systems, and a significant asset  an outpost  in the area ; you gain access to the cynojamming network making defence easier* sov 4  constellation soveraignty  - your constellation superiority has gone unchallenged for a good while and the overall presence level  patrools to fight wartargets, etc  has improved ; you get to upgrade your base of operation any way you see fitso, really, it is simple.not only that, but \"nbsi\" policies really have no sense anymore - one can not take sov away from you unless they wardec you first, in which case, they're \"red\" neutrals could be not only tolerated, but downright welcome, if you wanted to.sure, you can still operate a nbsi policy, but it doesn't make all that much sense anymore.you can have as many pos you want without ever getting any soveraignty, or you can gain sov1 without any poses at all. for sov2, you only need one pos. and so on, as described above.however, you don't need to actually lose a pos to lose the sov - all you need to do is not patrol your space and get a team to push your pos into reinforced. use too many poses and randomness makes sure you get the \"wrong pos\" as primary. besides, it only becomes really vulnerable if you don't defend your space - just defending it so you have at least one more pos and enough sovp means you get to keep it.once you get to sov3, you don't even need to keep each individual pos - but then again, if you don't, you risk losing all back to sov1 if sov3 gets contested due to activity.roaming gangs of wartargets can become a nuissance - they just chip away from your sovp total.it's all about presence and superiority, not about fueling poses and hotdropping capfleets."
"how about a wider variety of poss, scaled like ships.small structures are hard to hit with big guns, but provide localized intelligence fed back to hq. easy to build and destroy.medium structures are more durable, and provide resources of some kind, like an ammo depo.large structures are capable of one or a few specific functions, like providing ship repair services.super large structures could be like current poss.encouraging alliances to set up lots of smaller structures means they need to patrol larger areas and encourages roaming assault gangs as well."
"i'll comment on two items within the op;small groups could have goals if there were smaller targets within claimed systems that provided some effect on 'ownership'.for instance, if a system is claimed by a single corporation  non-alliance  there could be some type of beacon that is required to be placed in the system to signify that ownership, other than a stack of pos's.this beacon would require some type of fuels to exist  balanced against lower fuels for the pos's in the system so the pos owners dont blow a gasket . that fuel should be some type of expensive material - something that is worth taking.this way a smaller group could have a target that gains them something, and gives the owning corporation something to defend - thus, a reason to get out there and patrol.if it were 'me', i would make this beacon something that could be shut down and pillaged, but never destroyed.this beacon would need a purpose, other than being used as a 'deed for property' of a system. that purpose could easily be a cyno field. a constantly 'on'  provided it's fuels are not pillaged  jump target for the owners of the system.it would probably have to be something that did not register on the overview, but would need to be probed out by enemy forces. that way it would not be an instant 'bring your blob here' sign.three trillion cheers on this one!i was involved in some of the first pos activity in the game. i ran multiple pos's, along with my corp, and i eventually quit doing it completely. i also quit playing the game for nearly two years because of it.when any aspect of a game changes from something that is 'fun' or 'interesting' to having any similarity whatsoever to a real life job, the game loses all appeal.i was spending most of my time running pos's. there is plenty of activity that revolves around pos's. enough to make anyone a full-time powergamer. the fun issues of a pos are setups, making deals for marketing the products gained, setting up trade routes, mining operations or fuel purchase agreements, etc.. etc..all of that is work. it takes time, skill and resources to accomplish it all.adding continual tedium to the mix by having a constant need to 'babysit' a pos is what pushes a lot of operators over the edge.something as simple as a special fuel bay. a cross between a silo and a corp hangar, where additional fuels can be stored. something to reduce the amount of hands-on time needed for fueling. it could even have a penalty involved. something like, \"for every 150 units of x fuel that is transferred from this storage unit, 50 will be lost\".then, if you wanted to get really creative, a specialized skill could be used to reduce that amount by 5 per level - effectively reducing the fuel penalty to 25% from 50%.there will be pos owners who will object to a fuel 'surcharge'. in those cases it is a simple answer to the problem; \"don't use the fuel storage system\".for those pos owners who are willing to spend a bit more on fuel to gain some time for other activities, it could be a blessing. i, for one, would have continued my pos activities - probably increased them as well - if there was something like this available.my 2 cents.wheis"
"this post is much clearer. i like the idea, but perhaps make several poses able to hold each level or have the level escalate the number of pos you could use to keep, say up to 3 for sov3 and 6 for sov 10. this allows a dug in alliance to hold space more easily and still requires the capturing of smaller installations to reduce to sov2, thus the escalation."
"see edit you don't need more than one pos per system to hold sov2, and if you manage to get to sov3, you don't even poses much anymore, as long as you keep patrooling your space against wartargets.of course, if you fail to patrool it, having many poses is an advantage - but it's no longer a necessity.also, just having poses is no longer enoug to gain and maintain sov levels - without a constant presence and activity level, wartargets can simply erode your sov levels by making you lose sovp - even without actually destroying any of your poses."
"i like this, perhaps smaller poses could be \"cloaked\" if you just warp to a moon, but could be probed out and maybe have no stront bay. they might serve as a listening post, not too easy to find, but once you do quite easy to destroy. they could be a nice place to start your covert ops from and to start a small gang from, once you get small gang objectives. not so sure of the roles of the others though."
"no what i was saying is that if you had only maxed at sov2 then the enemy would only need to destroy that one pos. once you get up to sov3 they would need to destroy 3 poses to reduce you from sov2 to sov1, etc. i think this will help alliances \"dig\" in since once you only need to cap beacons from sov4 down to sov2 you could basically \"power rush\" when an alliance is not really ready. there needs to be some way to \"slow down\" the attack and give the defenders a chance to regroup. thus my simple minded you get extra poses approach.according to your edit, pos really serve no function then, which i don't like. i think you should have to destroy some poses, that is the final fortress. but from sov 4->3 you must cap some plexes that require only small ships. then from 3->2 you need to continue to cap plexes. then from 2->1 you must destroy some of the \"flagged\" poses. then from 1->1 enemy controlled  you must cap the \"flag\" of the system if it were. which is a plex with no gate allowing cap ships in.i think you should have to destroy poses, they are the final barrier to the \"flag\" and require many dreads and cap ships, thus the final escalation."
"i personally really like this:however, if not implemented very carefully, you will still get a situation like this......where an alliance that only has members in a certain  rl  region will be at the mercy of the \"pecking\" from alliances with members in a different  rl  region."
"forgot to mention that i love the idea of having to be at official war with the alliance in order to start taking the compounds, this might make freeports actually viable!"
"i think we need to do away with sovereignty levels via only pos and instead compartmentalize the benefits of sovereignty into multiple layers of objectives that can be constructed/attacked independently by different sorts of forces  one layer of which can still be the poses ."
"yep thats pretty much what everybody else has said in the thread. we seem to agree, maybe it will make it easy for ccp to get on the ball then!"
"supporting akita t's suggestions in principle.  sov stuff makes my head spin . make sov more like faction warfare with multiple layers and victory points. disallowing certain ships types form performing captures etc. i'm lukewarm towards the idea of 0.0 alliance wardecs to allow sov. but i do like the possibility of \"freeports\"."
"/signed"
"why bother destroying it ? just keeping it in reinforced for a while with incursions would be enough to erode your sovp, additional losses to sovp for engaging your forces or farming your belts, etc. get enough sovp out of you, and next time you put the pos in reinforced, *poit*, sov2 gone and you're back to sov1... and to get it back up o sov2 you have to actively patrool your territory again to get sovp total back up again, then defend the pos long enough again without having it fall in reinforced -f it does, sov1 is the best you can get... and eventualy you might end up losing sov1 too in favor of the roaming gangs of enemies.once sov3 is reached, it becomes very hard to lose - not only because of the cynojammer network  you don't care much about caps anyway, pos destruction is no longer mandatory, only pushing the pos in reinforced is, which would be hard to prevent if the enemy is persostent and mobile enough, even if it's just a battleship fleet  - but also because you need to lose a lot of sovp all over the place in the constellation first too  while sov3 grants a constant trickle of sovp everywhere to begin with , and any engagements that don't end in the attacker's favour only reinforce your sovp total... so, basically, once you gained sov3, you just need to hold the constellation reasonably secure and not much else.only if you fail pretty much all across the entire constellation at keeping the upper hand, afterwards you can start risking to lose sov3, if too many of your existing poses get pushed in reinforced mode - then you go back to sov2 all over the place, which is in itself also hard to lose - but to gain sov3 back you'd need to re-take and hold control of the consteallation. they serve the purpose of being your \"bases of operation\" and providing you with some degree of \"free sovp\" if not succesfully disabled  on top of additional \"free\" sovp from sov3/sov4 control and the regular sovp gained by day-to-day operations like beltratting, mining and so on .basically, they give you a little bit of advantage in sovp gains  not huge, but some , a place to withdraw from destruction and wait for reinforcements  if you get destroyed, your alliances loses sovp - but by baiting the enemy while reinforcements arrive to beat them or using the pos to help you destroye them, you gain additional sovp  and last but not least form the last line of defence to help you maintain the higher sov levels.however, you can not just hide behind the shields - if the pos goes in reinforced when the sov decrease is due, it's gone... you have to fight both before  to not get to the point where you can lose sov  but also when you can lose it.well, eventually, you will want to destroy all enemy poses anyway, as they give them safe points to launch assaults on you - but the control is not decided by pos amount, instead on activity levels. sitting behind pos shields and never coming out \"to play\" doesn't give you much."
"forest from the trees.problem with sov is that1. too many things can claim sov easaly - this means people use npc structures  pos  to conquor systems whilst avoiding pvp.2. sov claiming pos's are too cheap, so people avoid risking dreads to defend them and in many cases, use them as a speedbump to try to bore attackers.keep it simple. have less things in a system that can claim sov  e.g planets, perhaps even a star . have a struture or x-large pos or whatever that overrides existing sov in system in the same way a large tower overrides a medium towers sov claims. if that costs a huge amount, only then will it force people to defend it.either way - everone has their own version of a perfect answer. the technicalities of the \"perfect\" solution needs to take note of the key issues with the current system, which i noted above. i do not care what the solution is, but it should address the two key points i mention."
"i have an alternative suggestion i feel merits discussion regarding this issue remove link between pos and sov level gain make sov level % based introduce small civilian structures to give you sov % insteadexample:just like now, if alliance a have more large pos than alliance b, they get sovereignty over the system.when you take sov, you start at 0% and you then have to build small and medium sized, deadspace-style structures like schools and hospitals, orbital farms etc to cater for an npc population's needs.these in turn give you sov %, which in turn gives you bonuses and shiny toysthis then gives the following benefits, which i think solves most of the major problems of 0.0 sov small and medium sized attackers can hit civilian infrastructure to reduce sov % and do damage relative to their size and skill, even if they can't take a system industrialists get to put effort and skill into managing systems rather than mechanically fuelling pos large empires in deep 0.0 can still exist, but require more than just 5 weeks of no one attacking them to get powerful tools like cyno jammers and jump bridges dreads and pos still required to actually take system can practice \"scortched earth\" retreat or leave civilian infrastructure intact for future return. can raid weaker neighbours territories to stop them building up infrastructure"
"basically i'd argue getting rid of steps in the system and make it sliding scale. make it so the effort and skill an attacker puts in is relative to the damage they can do to a defender.also decouple pos warfare from the sov levels. that way you still need the epic, large scale battles to actually take a system. but to make the most of a system you own, build an empire, you still need sov, but you also need the industrialists to come in and develop a systemedit: @ lord waratron, i'd say you need more npc structures, but to spread the value attached to each across all of them. atm, far too much is placed on just one or two pos  cyno jammer and jb pos , and no one will risk their ships defending anything elseedit 2: reading above replies, sounds a lot like capture the flag. i'm thinking something more like culture points in civ iv"
"at spoon + lord w:i'd say it's not even about structures or no structures - it's about what sovereignty actually grants you. stripping the individual benefits out of the sovereignty equation and figuring out a new way of awarding them that is based more on player action and combat is the way to go i think. the flaw in sovereignty is that it's just a \"build more to get more\" linear system. instead we could have each benefit governed by discreet mechanics so you can attack, say, the fuel efficiency of the enemy poses, or their jump bridge network, or their cynojammers, without having to deal with poses and seiging."
"any solution is perfectly valid as long as it1. simplifies sov warfare - i.e not make the whole thing more complex and time consuming.2. forces people to fight to with ships, insted of a chepo pve structure to tie up a attacking pvp force as a delaying tactic or even used by attackers to spam faster than the defenders can remove them."
"myself and some alliance mates have been discussing this issue on and off for a long while now and have fairly similar conclusions to akita:mechanic: system is currently neutral. any corp or alliance can anchor structures in system.corp a wants control of system, corp b wants the same.contested system will have a calculated sov value  points are calculated by assesing the resource value of system... 50 points for a gate, 50 points for a npc station, 10 points a moon, 5 points a roid belt etc in this case the system has a sov value of 500  example corp a and b both declare they want sov of system  maybe similar to the war dec mechanic although declaration is made against the system in question each active member of either corp a or b present in that system will earn sov capture points.  active being, undocked and uncloaked points are allocated for every 15min being active  example: each pilot will get 5 points for each full 15min active in system each system should have a hard limit for the number of pilots per corp that can gain capture points  example: system with sov value of 500 would allow only 5 pilots per corp to accrue capture points, sov value of 1000 would allow 10 etc each system should have a hard limit for the time between sov level changes  ie sov can only change once every 5-10 days the first corp to achieve a clear 500 capture points will gain system sov lvl1.  ie if corp a achieve 750 capture points and corp b 250, this would give 500 clear points system is currently at sov 1 by corp a. only corp a can anchor in system.corp a will now receive some system wide benefits.... reduceds office rental, better refine, greater bounties, reduces pos fuel reqs etc etccorp a want sov 2 in system for even more benefits, the same mechanic would be used with a points multiplier so 750 clear points are req for this lvl.at sov 2 the system benefits are greater with more being added  lvl4 = cyno jammer, cap ship yards etc at sov lvl 2 all anchored structures in system will default to the sov holders.  this is to provide an alternate to pos sieges from sov 1 onward all pos in system will add defensive sov points to system   ie base sov points = 500, at sov 1 corp a anchor 2 x large pos which adds 2 x 250 points = 1000 defensive sov value now corp b are back and really want sov in this system:corp a have sov 2 and 2 large pos meaning that corp b need a clear 1000 capture points to lower the sov to 1.corp b can choose to attack  put in reinforced/remove  the 2 x pos thus removing the defensive bonus and thus only need 500 clear capture points or they can choose to control the system corp b dont have many cap ships so decide not to attack the pos but manage to completely control the system and thus achieve 1000 clear sov points and sov drops to lvl1corp b maintain this pressure until sov goes to neutral then lvl1 then lvl2 in favour of corp bduring this time corp a have been unable to get access to their 2 pos and thus owenership is transferred to corp b.  spoils of war some other ideas that we threw around:pos hitpoints should be adjusted downwards  drastically  at the highest lvl of sov, the controlling corp/alliance can control certain npc mechanics: restrict docking at stn, restrict jump clone use, etcat varying lvls of sov new/better anchorable modules can be deployed: 20au cloak jammer, cyno jammers, etc.tl;dr:sov should be about controlling a system not the number of pos present  stop pos spamming there should be hard limits set to discourage sov blobbing and repeated sov flipping  reduce blobbing there should be far more benefits given to sov holders  get more people into 0.0 there should be far more disadvantages to attacking forces  not just omg 10 pos to kill there should be a method to capture a system without removing enemy pos  reduce the need for large scale cap warfare there should be a method to capture enemy pos when sov has been gained"
"akita, i still think that actually destroying several poses would really help keep dreads and poses from being obsolete.on a note of using poses as staging points, perhaps make it so that at a certain sov level neutrals and enemies cannot anchor poses within a constellation. this might make a real front appear since you would have to fight your way up to the particular main system, rather then just invading the main system right away."
"i wrote the following back in jan 2004, judging by the file timestamp, and actually send it of to ccp as a proposal.note that this is *before* pos where introduced to the game.while 4.5 years old, eve only just beeing 6 months old, most  not all  of it can stand unedited, so i'll simply post \"as is\".cliffnotes:lots of cheap and \"easily\" killed structures.the idea beeing to have alliances deploy *many* of these, if they want to \"dig in\".conversely it means that an attacker will not need a 500 man blob in order to take out each target.and also that there will most likely be so many targets that it's unfeasible to defend all at the same time, giving small roving gangs a chance to weave and dudge the defenders, while still nibbling away at the \"defenses\".it has the potential for giving more fluid frontlines, instead of a few must kill \"big targets\".heres the ancient text...-------------------------------------------------proposal for 'territory claiming structures  tcs 'the fundamentals of this idea is to have 'frontlines' constantly moving back and forth.to accomplish this tcs should not be overly expensive, so that the loss of one would not be a devestating blow.rather they should be fairly easy to replace  but still take *some* effort .the basic idea beeing that an alliance  maybe even a corp  would 'scatter' these structures 'all over' in order to claim a territory.that way alliances would have some physical object to defend, rather then the current - \"kill all you see and the territory is yours\".the structure itself should be undefended.the structure should have enough hp to withstand, say 20 bships for 5 hours - thus give the defenders time to response.a price for such a structure should be in the range of 50m isk  remember a lot will be needed, and most likely constantly replaced i'd also like to see 2 'cheaper' versions of the tcs, which would cost less and have less hp.say a 25m and a 10m version  with respectivly fewer hp's it would then become a tactical decision which lvl of tcs to place where  as long as you have the majority of tcs hp's in a system - its 'yours' also - the larger an area you wish to claim - the more it's going to cost you!assuming alliances are implemented, tcs should be deployable by both alliances and corps  maybe only alliances? in a given system tcs can only be placed near stargates and stations.this would mean that some systems would become strategically more important, as they would be easier to 'defend', as it would take longer for an attacking force to wipe out all the tcs  and indeed new ones could be placed in place of those destroyed, while the attackers attacks the next tcs also means that an attacker wanting to place tcs of their own *has* to take out existing tcs if all 'slots'  gates/stations  are already 'occupied' by tcs.it should also be able for more than one party  alliance/corp  to place tcs in a system  as long as there is a 'free' gate/station .whichever party has most tcs hp  3 types with diff hp's remember  in a given system, will be said to be 'in control' of the system.i suggest that the *current* hp of tcs is counted towards this total  and not it's max hp .example : alliance a has 2 50m isk tcs in a system but both with less than 50% hp  because of prior attacks , and alliance b has only one 50m tcs, but it's at 100% 'health' - and thus alliance b has more tcs hp in the system, and is thus 'declared' 'in control' of the system."
"a tcs should 'repair' itself over time - but it should be very slow  as they have a lot of hp .a tcs should be able to repair itself fully  from 1 hp to max  over a period of say 3 days  or something similar tcs should ofc not be deployable in the middle of empire space, as those systems are claimed by the empires.aywhere outside empire controlled space should be fine.this includes  npc  pirate claimed space  it's after all 'free for all' in those places - and the residing npc rats, just might decide to pay the player deployed tcs a visit every so often those are the basics.now for all the possible 'features' with this  and theres *alot* .1 to make the tcs actually having a 'purpose'  apart from signifying 'ownership' of a region , except beeing some very expensive bulls eyes for roving pirates whishing to 'grief' the alliances, one idea would be to 'bestow' some kind of bonus on the alliance /corp  having the control of the system  when fighting *in* that system .it makes sense afterall that the defenders have an 'edge', as defenders are usually 'entrenched' in one way or another.attacking is usually more 'expensive' than defending.the possibility of bonus is almost endless...a  bonus to damageb  bonus to rangec  bonues to tracking speedetcetcetcd  one intersting bonus could be that of : defenders  owners of the majority tcs hp  can warp to 'safespots' where others are hiding  they are after all the defenders and should know the system well  very vague rp reason i know... , or simply because the tcs have some tracking gizmo build in  triangulation  making it possible.bottom line is - there are a *ton* of different possibilitites open for adding one sort of bonus or another to the defenders.it could also work 'in reverse' ofc - ie. giving the attackers a negative bonus of some sort.- how about the inability to warp out from battle around a tcs if you are the attacker  the tcs have long long range scramblers ... pretty radical i know, but just to show that anything can be thought up really...2 say a tcs gets knocked down below 1/3 'health' - it no longer is able to repair itself.it needs minerals/components/isk in order to get vital repair facilities 'up to speed' again, before it can begin it's self repairing again.thus puts an emphasis on the alliance to get that done if at all possible, and not just let it sit there 'taking care of itself'. ofc most likely an attacking force able to knock down a tcs to 1/3 hp, will most likely finish it of anyhow.... 3 unless an alliance /corp  has declared war on the alliance owning the tcs it can not be attacked.this would somehow inhibit roving pirates to 'grief' the alliances /corps  owning the tcs. opens up the whole can of 'consentual vs non-concentual wars' debate.... 4 tcs has an 'upkeep' that has to be paidcould be isk and/or itemsi prefer some combination - because if a tcs once a week requires some materials in order to 'function'. it means that aliances can't just deploy it - and then just leave it there for good without bothering more about it.if the materials/isk is not supplied on time, the max hp of the tcs drops by 10%  or something and it would take *double* the normal amount of materials/isk to get back those lost 10% again.5 lots and lots and lots more 'details' can be thought up.......the above are *only* suggestions - i'm sure there are pretty many other good ideas that could be put in to 'action'.some of the suggestions might even have flaws i havent spotted ets.so - it's nothing more than a 'deabate starter'"
"yes please - top of the list would be a poll option for these issues, instead of going by broken post counting."
"first off, horay for the standard fallacies about all alliances being huge and automatically overwhelming everything. and also i like the idea that this is going to keep big experienced groups of players out with the way things are.right now, as however many naysayers have suggested, it's perfectly possible for an alliance to group into a corp and go join up. i don't have numbers, but i rather suspect this has happened quite a bit. except... hey, there's these rp alliances that went and formed a collection of like-minded corps, each with different viewpoints. who have no ic reason given to dissolve their separate identities. so the group of people who in a lot of cases icly would be most about signing up... won't.as for keeping the experience level down... i don't know if you guys have noticed but 0utbreak went and signed up, among others.i mean, i'd be perfectly happy if it were restricted to non-sov holding alliances and i suspect most others would too, but alliance doesn't automatically mean huge, nor does it mean nullsec."
"i support this with 2 stipulations  both already proposed 1. multiple members of 1 alliance should not be allowed to sign up with opposing factions.2. a corporation should not be eligible if they are in an alliance that holds sovereignty. this would help stop the goons and other large alliances from dominating fw."
"ccp stated that they have a dilemma, where contracting can on one hand be more effective where people have more options and better deals, or can be a back-alley trading system, where people can scam each other in the worst case on the other hand. ccp believes that the contract system could use some more utility, but should not grant players much more information, as a fully transparent and effective system would also limit the opportunities for players to make a profit. they want the csm and the players to think about the direction the contract system should take, and are open to suggestions and improvements.the 10% increment in bids is agreed to be too high a percentage, but it should not be too low either otherwise it would turn into 0.01 warfare. the csm is tasked to determine the appropriate percentage and relay it back to ccp, who will analyze it and adjust the percentage."
"there's no single flat percentage that will be any good.it has to be reasonable for an item that costs 1,000 isk, as well as one that costs 30,000,000,000 isk.i'm sure there's some sort of function that would come up with a reasonable value, but it's not a simple multiplication by a fraction."
"does it have to be a percent, why not a floating value with minimum's and maximum's?"
"why not have it tier based rather than percentage?e.g.0.01 - 10,000 isk = 100isk charge10,001 - 50,000 isk = 500isk charge50,001 - 100,000 isk = 1,000isk charge100,001 - 500k = 5k chargeetc."
"the only problem i have with contracts is not being able to bid on auctions  or accept another type of public contract  from a region other than the one where the item being auctioned resides.  the other day i had to travel 25 jumps, one-way, to get to the region that had an auction on which i wanted to bid. is there a gameplay reason for this, or is it just a technical issue? any chance of this being changed?"
"add an option to allow the one setting up a contract to set the bid increment. it's the way it works on the forums and it works fine. as the seller i'm not interested in 0.01 isk wars, but in relevant increments.if you auction something in the 1+ billion range, where the price is rather stable, say fluctuating within a 100 mil spread, you might want an auction that starts at 1 bil with buyout 1,1 bil. with 10 mil static increments. if you have a cool faction item, but no price awareness, you might want an auction starting at 1 mil still with 10 mil increments.i want to be able to set those fixed amounts for every auction:starting bidreserve  only public ones buyoutbid incrementif the reserve is set and not met the contract system should give the seller a choice to accept or reject the highest bid, if it is met the auction works as now."
"not gunna happen but supported.about as likely as un-nerfing the sin.but supported."
"given that ccp has just said that the sale of pos research/construction slots publicly is simply not in the cards, i've come up with an alternate proposal for how to do the same thing. it's a bit bizarre, but i think it addresses a lot of the issues pretty effectively. corporations already have station space all over high-sec, in the form of their offices. why not allow players to upgrade their offices to give themselves research and manufacturing lines, and then allow those to be sold publicly? there's no real ownership issues, and it would dramatically alleviate the current severe shortage of lines without requiring ccp to put players in the pos slot market out of business entirely, and it'd be market-controlled, which would mean it could deal with future shortages without developer intervention. my idea would basically be to have some sort of item you'd take to a station, similar in principle to an outpost upgrade, though player-built instead of npc supplied, and install it in your office. you'd pay some amount of extra rent for it, and you'd have some sort of interface, probably through the corp management screen that controls offices, to allow you to reserve the spots for internal use or for you to sell them externally. also, to prevent chaos, the 30-day limit on research length would instead be a limit equal to the amount of time you have the office rented for and of course, you'd allow offices to be rented for long periods of time in advance , though you could also set it to be shorter if you wanted to. this also has the nice effect of allowing capital ship bpos to be researched in npc stations, since their research time is far too long for the 30-day limit. i'm being deliberately hazy on the details of how the ui would be implemented, since i haven't ever been ceo for long enough to wade through the current corp management ui, so if i'm wrong on a detail, i apologize. but the proposal is generic enough that my point should get through even if i've bobbled a minor aspect of it."
"nicely said.also, 0.0 space in general needs a buff - in any given region  in terms of ratting, non-npc space  there are a handful of systems where you can make more isk than running missions in empire - if someone or multiple people didn't get there first.  not just speaking as a goon - happened in ascn and huzzah as wel ."
"i am by no means a veteran to game or to 0.0 logistics.but isn't the problem that logistics are actually too easy? jump bridges, carriers, jf's and all that jazz makes it possible to jump across incredible distances within a minimum amount of time. which again makes it possible for a few huge entities to control vast amount of space. at the same time, losing ships are a not an issue, as more can always be brought to 0.0 with a snap of the fingers.i am not saying that logistics weren't boring. but frankly, having op's such as those you say ascn had, would have been epic fighting arenas, where you needed a big support fleet, and an enemy fleet could rip a hole in the alliance wallet however small a hole it might be  if they caught the logistics train? i realise ofcourse that the freighters were far too weak to stand up against such an onslaught, and that should be fixed.i know alot will probably disagree, but i find the easy logistics to and from 0.0 to be doing more harm than good in terms of fights, consequences of losing ships and the control of regions by single entities."
"well i agree with most of the rest, but the drone part-even if we get the refineable we still need someone with ok refine skill to get the mins. besides that the drones are annoying and they don't offer security status, bounty, faction modules, etc. there needs to be something that makes the region worthwhile except for using the moons to make caps."
"i disaggree. currently you have 3 super blocks soaking up all the nice moons all over the galaxy. if you make it so small groups can affect that ability that would require different strategies, like staying home. soverignty could be tested without getting game breaking gangs together to crash nodes. all things in 0.0 would change based on not allowing the overview/huge hp sinks dictate the course of action"
"well written and well thought out post. whilst i'm not totally convinced that the mineral crash can be directly attributed to the drone regions, or that that was necessarily a totally bad thing, the remainder of the issues are important enough to merit consideration."
"agree with all of this - but particularly the points on pos anchioring and carriers"
"would not change the issue that out of the 4 rare moon mins... two of them make up 80% of the entire t2 reaction line. ..yes that's right you heard it correct. 80% of everything t2 comes from only 2 of the rare moon mins.if you leave everything alone with sov and pos, the distribution model for reactions has to change."
"but thats why they are special and why people care? the simple fact they are so precious is why people go to great lengths to aquire those moons. if you change the ratio then who gives a flyin rats a$$? i want to change the pos system for moar fights with less lag, biggest problem in 0.0, not moar carebears"
"it's not. read my post again. jb requires sov from point a to point b which isn't possible for many regions very far empire  that includes cobalt edge .logistics weren't meant to give fights directly, they were meant to supply the fights up in 0.0. i wouldn't call setting up secret towers in hostile space and spending billions of isk on a ship to facilitate logistics and still being limited easy."
"a.. ah... drone using faction ship would be nice."
"note that theres already 2x minnie + gallente combos. allow 2x caldari + amarr combes too.blue sleek hull is nice. make them armor tanking ships with split rail/missile weapons.oh and apoc for bs, blood is already using geddeon."
"p<U+FFFD>tur  ccp  started off by saying that the csm should come up with solutions if the existing rules do not work, and write a guide for the next csm how problems were overcome. it will be allowed for the chairman to stand down, and as a side note, p<U+FFFD>tur  ccp  noted that changes will be made to the way alternates are handled under the current system, so that their participation does not count as a term.andrew  csm jade constantine  wished to have the chairman role electable, as he believed that all the roles should be agreed on by the majority of the council.sean  csm darius johnson  said that he had no problem with the current way the chairman is elected, but rather with the roles and responsibilities assigned to the chairman.ccp also indicated that there were concerns with the continuity of the csm, and would like a system put in place where the next csm can easily pick up where the previous one left off. knowledge and experience would need to be passed on and everything would need to be properly documented. current csm members should advise the next csm.eva  csm ankhesentapemkah  expressed concern with the lack of a proper medium to record knowledge and urged for a csm forum, subversion or wiki to be set up as soon as possible to contain and preserve all information, and make it easy for the next csm to continue running projects."
"i'm still annoyed that this one had to go this far. jade should have stepped down on day 1 and re-run, and used precedent to keep his successors in line. the issue being brought doesn't bother me, to change the rules and put harder limits on the position, but it being relevant does."
"ccp realized that even though they do not plan to remove suicide ganking completely, today's suicide gank mechanics are too biased in the ganker's favor, and they have set up a task force to look into suicide ganking and crime and punishment in general.for the short term, they plan to increase the security hit for crime in high-sec space and make sure that all ship kills will be counted as kills, with the matching sec hit, for everyone that participated. ccp also considers influencing the sec hit penalty based on the security status of the victim.mid term, the plans are to look into suicide ganking and the insurance payout, once they have made sure that new players are not impacted by this too much and have extra security in place so that accidents should not be punished.in the long term, they plan to have criminal records for players, with the appropriate consequences. tradable killrights are also on the table, to let players deal with criminals instead of just concord being responsible for security.alex  csm bane glorious  said that most suicide gankers already thought of ratting to regain security status as painful.because a lot of suicide ganking occurs from npc corporations, it was considered to move criminal offenders out of the npc corporations into pirate npc corporations if they committed too many crimes.eva  csm ankhesentapemkah  reacted to this that it could be standing based, like factional warfare, where a player would be ejected out of the militia if their standing with the faction became too low. various people added to this that criminals could lose standing with the faction where they committed their crimes in addition to the security status hit. as for the bounty system, it was suggested that the bounty could be paid out in parts, with the amount being paid out at a moment depending on the damage inflicted on the criminal, so that a criminal could still have bounty remaining after the first time he was killed."
"how can ccp realize this? how can any sane person acknowledge this? it's the same mechanics as before. caving in to whines?/edit: as there is no way to graphically show disagreement with a topic, i'll post an image instead:please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"this should curb somewhat the gank-for-lulz incidents. nice to see you're atleast working on making it more interesting for the aggressors. good write-up : "
"great new's"
"simple. stop insurance pay outs for ships destroyed by concord."
"fixed that for you."
"this might be a nice addition, but with the extra that this would only apply to people with a positive sec status to begin with. two pirates shooting each other back to positive sec status does somewhat defeat the principle"
"this, please."
"put a cool down of hours before a player target counts for status updates."
"excellent. the players of eve thank the panel for addressing this problem. stronger and longer pentalies for this must be applied. thank you."
"did they realize they have two heads as well? how do you just realize? this is right up there with \"carriers, the swiss army of eve?\"cloak, scout, don't afk, wow pretty hard i never realized that can i have a titan now?"
"tradeable killrights sounds promising. as long as ccp is able to track the biomassed ex-alts and make the contract carry over.."
"sorry but hav we missed the obviousness of dont give a ganker insurance because obviously he has been shot by concord meaning they obviously commited the crime? it takes forever to get your sec status back up in th game if your low so having an increased it is just meaning that gankers waste more time. by bringing in the insurance lost due to concord idea then gankers are not only ratting their sec up but also their isk at the same time so its a double whammy there.this sounds much like a biased \"we have too many players who dont like fighting and think the game should only be industry and good\" sorta the forces of good vs the forces of evil.the criminal records is a nice idea and is ralistic really and will give a slightly nicer edge but bring in the sec hit part and it will turn eve into a crunching game much the same as any other mmorpg out there.dak's"
"it doesn't just sound like \"we have too many players who dont like fighting and think the game should only be industry and good\", it is like it. most of the people who gets ganked has the means to avoid ganking - they are just lazy whiners who come to the forums to whine en masse and then have the game mechanics bent to their will."
"from an isk stand point the ganker has no !  risk. insurance pays for nearly all of it. now look at the risk involved from the side of the gankee. they risk not only their cargo, but their ship, which in the case of a frighter is hundreds of millions. basically i think you should have to risk more to gank, more then just a small insurance payment. we're saying that the barrier to entry to ganking should be higher; why should my hold full of trit but a viable target? note i said viable not most attractive. you could in theory make isk by ganking haulers full of trit and make isk, which is very dumb."
"how about an actual \"bounty hunter\" designation, and maybe new \"sheriff\" in town too? how thats achieved up to you, but i suggest he can appoint deputy's too!"
"how about fixing the bounty system first? :  as is stands now, you put bounty on some one, you might as well be transferring it directly into his wallet."
"unfortunately i think this topic is skewed by emo posts on all parties with out really looking at this from a far. i would really like to see what the numbers are on how many ganks  concord response  in a certain area are in relation to how much traffic in a given period. what this should tell us is how much risk the freighter/hauler pilot has by moving there stuff. is it a 20% chance of being ganked? 30% or is it fairly low?i understand that there are a lot of posts stating that the ganker does not face really that much risk. but what is the risk for the ganker. what is the time  which is equal in money  to grind sec status back up to re-enter high sec and is the proportionate with the loss of the gankee?i have always heard that the reward has to or should be equal to the risk. are the parties involved sharing equal risk? what is the true cost on both sides in real isk and time with the current mechanics? i think if we can finally establish what the true risk is on both parts i think we can then proceed to balance the current game play. but as it stands now it is just an emo whine fest."
"exactly. i think when a person gets a bounty put on his head, you don't just get it for pod killing them. what should happen is you have to go into the bounty system and accept the bounty contract. this not only allows you to hunt this specific person anywhere, but entitles you to the rewards of the bounty.maybe make a bounty hunter school or something for you to be able to do this? some sort of work should be required to become a bounty hunter imho. i dunno, but seems like fun to be a true bounty hunter in game and not just paid for situational opportunity.==================suicide ganking. make empire, non war target aggression criminal aggression  = 1/4 dps output on your ship. have fun trying to kill a fly after that.khonn"
"the problem is that insurance makes the gank near-free. it's fine except for the fact that the ganker loses next to nothing. fix insurance, and this problem goes back down to reasonable levels."
"for your equation it is = 0 as he is getting isk doing the grinding. and very good isk if he is grinding in 0.0.so the proportion is:cost of suicide gank 5-10% of total ship and fitting value  thank to insurance scam  / cost to ganked pilot 5-10% at least of ganked ship  often more as they are rigged/t2/freighters +full cargogains of suicide ganker: survived cargo/ganked = 0cost of sec loss: fairly long time ratting to recovergain of sec loss: bounties/drops of the rats killed for recovering the loss.don't seem so hard for gankers."
"is this wrangle talking or the puppet master ryanddskunk"
"as long as this doesn't consist of more modal fracking dialogs.i've been a suicide ganker. i've been the victim of suicide ganking attempts. and i support transferable killrights. i'll go be a bad boy just so some targets with some teeth come after me for some 1v1.blob warfare sucks. even small gang warfare is generally very one sided. i fully support anything that allows me to 1v1 more.it's extremely painful. it takes about four dedicated hours of ratting in 0.0 to regain the sec hit from a single ship kill. and there's no guarantee you even got anything from the ship kill.good idea.the bounty system is completely broken. any time the bounty becomes worth collecting, a friend or corpmate collects it.kill rights need to be transferable for isk or for free. i would happily buy tons of kill rights just for the pvp it would bring me. i would happily gank people just so there more kill rights out there for me.factional warfare as i've experienced it is a giant stupid blobfest. it's not the answer. transferable kill rights will go a long way."
"wrangler, i'm going to buy you a new dress to go along with your new pretty vision of a warm cuddly universe. what size are you?"
"excellentvery nice.agreed as well!the only thing i think needs to be added is to make sure that even the worst offender has some way of crawling back. something besides ratting or missioning, preferably something dealing with pvp rather than just grinding rats forever."
"another point where i think i will get a lot of support... how are us \"good\" miners supposed to deal with macros in empire? reporting does not work anymore as there are just too darn many.  take a look at any system in empire with an ice belt some day or all the isk for cash spammers in the rookie channels.  so i and several others i know have resorted to the only option we have and that is to knock the macros ships out cost them some isk and mining time  hopefully more mining time than the ship is worth  and wait for them to come back. rinse and repeat. making the sec hit even tougher just balances things in their favor. i honestly think it already is a pain in the butt enough to get your sec status back up especially if you are an empire hugger like myself.  yes i do admit it! hey maybe theycould knock all players out of the starting corps who get above a certain level of skill points. i.e. they corp decides they leave the nest. that would leave us the avenue of war deccing those corps on our own and going after them."
"if the sec hit is just the hit for the kill applied to all and void insurance i can live with that, but if the sec hit goes beyond that its a case of pandering to the bigger subscriber base, cash flow always wins in the end."
"i am going to assume that xaen is correct and 4 hours  average  in 0.0 space will clear the hit of 1 kill... my question is why would any amount of ratting in 0.0 space raise your security standing with concord that totally ignores security hits in 0.0? if killing and podding another player in 0.0 space will not lower your standing with concord  a correct function i might add , then ratting in that system should have no affect as well...modify all security hit's or bumps by the posted security level of the system  for concord only ... now those who commit criminal acts will be paying with more then a few hours of ratting in  with sovereignty and control  relative safety, to counter the security hit on suicide ganking...as concord showing up is a function of suicide ganking, if the attacker s  are in a npc corp.  unable to be war-deced  lets have concord show up faster so that odds are they will not get the ship killed in time."
"currently, suicide ganking is the only way to attack large numbers of pod-pilots who intentionally join npc corps where they cannot be war-deced. this includes logistic alts for nearly everyone whose main is in 0.0, as well as large numbers of industrialists/inventors/miners who primarily reside in empire. the npc corp mechanic allows these characters to avoid wardecs indefinitely, making it impossible to \"legally\" interfere with their activities. suicide-ganking has become the only way to interdict empire operations - making it even harder makes empire more of a safe-haven than it already is. major alliances at war with each other shouldn't be able to conduct their logistics and other business operations in complete safety despite ongoing hostilities.any change that makes suicide ganking more difficult reduces the risk of any empire logistics and commerce, with no recourse for the people that seek to disrupt said activities. the counterpoint being, of course, that there is currently very little financial risk to suicide ganking, and that risk/reward/effort is not at all balanced for the ganker and gankee. there are a couple problems with some of the proposed solutions. adding faction standing hits would be insanity, as there is currently no real way to repair that damage  which breaks our delicate risk/reward balance completely . increasing sec-status hits or reducing insurance gives everyone carte blanche to move though empire in 100% safety - on an alt. by themselves, these arent great solutions either  they make it to easy to side-step legitimate attacks. in order to keep things in line it would need to be possible to issue wardecs against these pilots. there are numerous ways to encourage people to leave npc corps for wardecable pc corps. almost all of them would work just fine. the goal, of course, is to allow player groups to specifically target and attack each other while at the same time making random/opportunistic attacks less profitable.eve isnt supposed to provide ultimate safety, and it seems the goal of most of the anti-ganking crowd is just that. while i can freely admit that suicide ganking is a little too cheap/easy at present, the problem remains that it is the only option available for attacking a huge number of characters. taking away that option leaves far too many pilots operating in complete safety, and reward without risk is a broken game mechanic. the reality is that over 90% of suicide ganks can already be easily defeated using existing game mechanics. the effort and investment necessary to do so is out of line with the difficulty of ganking in many cases though, which is why things need to be tweaked slightly. however, making empire space too safe brings its own set of problems and would ultimately lead to a much less interesting game."
"well the rats are \"bountied\" by concord that reaches through out eve. same as a player that has a bounty sanctioned by concord getting podded in 0.0. the player that pod him will receive the bounty. your line of thinking would cancel out the opportunity in podding a pirate in 0.0 and receiving the bounty because in 0.0 concord does not apply.you receive a sec bump once every 15 minutes and it relates to what rat you kill at the time. it does not matter how much and how big the rats you have been killing, it just pertains to the rat you kill during the time you are able to bump your sec status.so in one hour you will receive a slight bump to your sec status. and it is also dependent on how low you are. a -10 will take weeks if not more of solid ratting with doing nothing else just to stick there head into a .5 system. so using 4 hours to erase one kill is kind of wrong. it is based on a lot of different factors."
"seems fair;if eve wants to be realistic - treating criminals like criminals is a good place to start."
"goon makes some valid points here but one is just ridiculous and im sick of hearing about it:quote: taking away that option leaves far too many pilots operating in complete safety, and reward without risk is a broken game mechanic.no one wants to be harassed by other players. thats why they are in high-sec to begin with."
"i can't remember who i'm quoting here, but one of my favourite eve sigs is something like \"by clicking this button pic of undock button  you consent to possible pvp\". it's an accurate statement - you fly, you risk death. again, quoting a sig - \"concord provide consequences, not security - only you can do that\". that's eve - highsec just raises the costs of harassment, it doesn't eliminate them."
"why must bounties and security bumps/hits be tied?i have no problem with bounties, places on a target by an enemy of that target, to be paid to the pilot that fills the contract on that bounty  i support the trading of kill rights also ...i just want to see the security bumps/hits changed... adjusted by the security level of the system... pirates and anti-pirates could blast away at each other on 0.1 space and the security hit would be 10% of the current amount... 10 times the attacks for the same security loss you get now... but as xaen pointed out, taking a clone trip down to that area in 0.0 space wjhere your alliance rules with an iron hand and popping rats for a few hours and you are right back to that +security rating you had before... and, from what i have read, if you can pop between 2 systems you can get twice the security bumps while ratting.  this tactic may have been what xaen was talking about with his 4 hour estimate i would also point out, there are not very many people sec level -10  or even under -5  doing suicide gank type attacks..."
"they fixed that little trick about hopping systems a long time ago. so it no longer applies. also i am not sure how many lo-sec pirates you know of are a part of an alliance that reside in 0.0. most pirates i am know look down at 0.0 type alliances. so are you looking at them in this equation? goons are not the only ones doing this. because i do not think they care one way or another. who this impacts are the pirates from the lo sec regions that can not have that warm fuzzy iron fist alliance ratting parties you are speaking of.so, you can not bump you sec status by jumping systems. it no longer works. the 4 hour statement based on assumption is wrong. so now we need to really look at what the true penalty is. and instead of levying a penalty based on an assumption we now should be able to increase the penalty reasonably with out destroying game play. so now we can say, ok it takes approximately 16 hours to increase your sec status by .5 so how much longer should it be?"
"technically it is 99.39% and takes a cyber v implant and rank 4 or 5 skill at level v to hit it for the best ores. just saying technically."
"i actualy love the r&d agents idea ..."
"matt  ccp  explained that ccp's goal of factional warfare was to introduce more players to pvp, and that it was not intended as end-game pvp, which they believe is 0.0 warfare. factional warfare is to prepare players for 0.0 warfare. alliances partaking in factional warfare would open a can of worms to them, for instance, that factional warfare would move inter-alliance conflicts out of 0.0 where they belong, and into sovereign empire space, and that experienced alliance pilots would gank new players that want to learn about pvp in factional warfare.from a technical aspect, it is impossible for an alliance as a whole to join factional warfare. it is possible to allow corporations in an alliance to sign up, as this feature is currently blocked and this block could be lifted. andrew  csm jade constantine  reacted that there are disadvantages for a whole alliance to sign up, as their industrialist part could no longer enter certain parts of empire space and that they are free to shoot at by the enemy militias, while griefers that want to gank new players in factional warfare easily get around the limitations by just setting up a separate corporation. on the other hand, roleplaying alliances, which might not have 0.0 assets, are currently left out while they would benefit greatly from factional warfare.matt  ccp  argued that if corporations in alliances would be allowed to join factional warfare, individual corporations might sign up with opposing factions, making them each other's enemy through factional warfare and each other's ally through the alliance, which would result in a logical paradox.ccp said that they would rather want to make the 'shiny features' of factional warfare available to alliances and 0.0 combat this would include a rank system for corporations  and make 0.0 warfare more interesting by having strategic locations to fight over like in factional warfare rather than using the resources to make factional warfare available for alliances. andrew  csm jade constantine  noted that just quick-fixing factional warfare and allowing corporations in alliances to participate would be enough to please a lot of people. matt  ccp  replied that ccp will first look how factional warfare will develop in the future before making any rushed adjustments, but that they will look into making factional warfare available to corporations in alliances, with the limitation that corporations in the same alliance can only sign up with one and the same faction."
"i think alliances as a whole should never have the ability to join a milia for faction war. for the simple fact that it opens up a whole new can of worms. alliances are somewhat on the same level of militias, and intertwining them breaks the entire fw credibility and racial divide. fw needs to be kept pure based on standings... alliances are far to vast to have every single person accept which militia would be appropriate. as for corps within alliances being able to join, i also find that to be inappropriate. what would stop an alliance from joining all its corps to a militia? the issues from all this outweigh what eve currently has in place for fw.besides, not all corps can join an alliance. those are player based and run. alliances always have that option to secure themselves... militias do not.alliances and corps in alliances need to be kept excluded from fw."
"what i read from this statement was that the fw mechanics are being considered as the 'multi-objective' role model for revamping 0.0 soverignty.yes, soverignty needs to be redone.yes, soverignty needs to be disconnected from pos's.yes, small gang objectives is better than blobs.no, alliances should not become part of fw.as much as i would like to do some fw from time to time, i won't leave my alliance to do so. that's my choice and i can't have my cake and eat it too."
"your opinion. fortunately its in the minority and 6-3 csm reps have voted to escalate the issue for the 2nd formal meeting and advise this small fix is deployed as soon as possible. for the record i'm convinced your fears are groundless and fw will be very much enhanced and improved by allowing alliance corporations to join."
"how many of those reps are part of an alliance already? seems a bit lopsided and quite an inaccurate measure of the militia and non-alliance player base. not to mention your boldface assumption that my opinion is the minority. let's get one thing straight. i have no fears of you, your corp, or your alliance. my ideas and thoughts are for the pure game as a whole. personally, i think you are losing your debate... but keep trying to force it. it's quite obvious you have a personal agenda... nothing of what you say or do shows any sympathy to this game or its players in an overall environment."
"as has been said before if it is fw's goal to introduce people to pvp, it is simply idiotic to unilaterally exclude them from the alliances where the \"end-game\" pvp exists.edit: votey"
"well 6-3 reps voted aye on the issue and represent a clear majority of the voting electorate. thats very clear. sure, 3 of those reps are taking a personal interest in the health and wellbeing of the roleplay community in eve. but thats politics and thats how the csm was designed. roleplayers cared about the elections, cared about the future of eve and faction warfare, and roleplayers ensured they got representives into the csm. in all likelihood the major alliances to benefit from this change in the roleplay community would be cva and ushra'khan and wouldn't be fighting in your direct ballpark anyways. for the record its unlikely sf would ever join a militia even if we could for rp reasons so you are wrong to personalize the debate here in the first place.well again you are in the minority there, but i mean look at rationally. you are arguing a dog in the manger position as a member of the caldari militia wanting to keep alliances out so thats your bias and its very clear. i'm arguing a position that alliance corporations should be allowed into faction warfare since the current situation quite unfairly penalizes long term rp alliances who have played with the background for years and years and now find themselves effectively excluded from involvement due to a technical bar that ccp have told us can be removed with a very simple bit of programming fix.neither i, nor my alliance will find our playstyle affected either way by the outcome since we wouldn't be joining a militia anyways so i really don't see how you can accuse me of bias when you are the one who is desperately attempting to preserve your own perceived advantage against the thread of further inclusion in fw to the wider community. your argument just doesn't add up.where i do have a personal agenda is in seeing that roleplay interests are represented to ccp and that longterm roleplay alliances  other than my own  are allowed to involve themselves in factional warfare and directly influence the background by their efforts and playing skill. but like i said, i do think you are totally wrong when you say there will be a negative impact on fw if alliance corps can join. i can understand where you are coming from, since at the moment you see yourself as a big fish in a small pond and are obviously worried that rivals will come to \"spoil your fun\" but this is eve online - you are not playing in an instance, you are playing on the whole wide server and when you raise your game and consider yourself the equal of everyone else rather than an oppressed minority that needs special protection i am confident you'll enjoy the game more and come to see that you were wrong in the fears you currently express."
"i argue as a member of a militia knowing full well alliance involvement would hinder fw completely. alliances in fw would overpower the entire design, which was to introduce people to pvp... not to be a major role in pvp. alliances and their sovereign space have no place in fw space. having them with me or against me in my militia doesn't matter. i have no idea if bob will join caldari and reign terror on gallente. to me, that's not the case. as much as i would love it, winning or losing is not the end all factor. knowing a good thing vs a bad thing is. you fail to see that and you assume more than the facts. even i know a simple programming fix can cause a hell of amount of grief and abuse. but if you don't want sf in a milita, why should this matter? sf is basically one corp anyway, why not just use the game mechanics as intended, and join your your corp outside of your sweet sweet alliance? or is that not how you should adapt? the fact is we all deal with what we can and can't do... the difference is you think you are entitled to what you can't do. i feel sorry for your love of rp and getting the shaft, but hey... eve is not just about you.you fail so bad, it makes my eyes hurt. like i said, having alliance join my militia can benefit me just as much as any other militia... but you fail to see where opening that can of worms can have a huge impact and abuse. even if its just corps in alliances. deal with it. you are arguing a point that you really don't understand the consequences too, and you fail at understanding my point and where i'm coming from. simply saying you feel sad about not having rp alliances play a role in fw is pathetic... its a lame excuse, and its your only argument. you can roleplay with, or without a milita. oh, and last i check, roleplayers are in militias. they just joined up like the rest of us and didn't whine about it. they obviously see the impact big alliances can have on fw and why it was never intended. i'm for roleplaying, its great... but i'm afraid you horribly miss the point.its not about roleplay alliances... its about all alliances and all corps in alliances. the little part of me that agrees you should have fw access, still doesn't offset the fact that other non-roleplay alliances can greatly abuse the fw system. the overall game abuse far outweighs making a few rp alliances feel better about themselves."
"in your opinion. others disagree. not all alliances hold space. often alliances were created for the sole reason of resolving the corporation standings limit. you should know this if you wish to make substantive comment on the issue. and you make assumptions and statements that are unproven. why should anyone believe you have a wellspring of knowledge that the rest of us lack? you don't know, you assume. you have no idea of knowing exactly what will happen. you think it will be bad because you are currently the big fish in the small pond. i think it will be good, and at least i'm looking at the situation from the outside with no intention of jumping into the pond whatever happens. sf was never been relevant to this debate. you made the mistake of personalizing it for rhetorical purpose as a means of personal attack against my character as csm chair - but i'm glad you now acknowledge that was a mistake and incorrect debating stance. nice argument. why is your point of view superior to mine? and what have i misunderstood about your personal stake in fw wanting to keep alliances out because you feel it would endanger your role? as indeed they can right at the moment by detaching foreign legion corps and joining anyway. this is the item of debate you've never addressed. as long as you have corporations like outbreak involved in fw its a nonsense to exclude all alliance corps for potentially unbalancing fw. most alliances in eve are rubbish from a military standpoint. ultimately you are arguing for a pvp instance in the middle of eve's warfare sandbox and it really doesn't wash since its ridiculous easy for it to be unbalanced anyway if anyone was of a mind too."
"once again you fail to understand anything. you can try and single out exceptions, but eve is not an exception... think overall, then perhaps you'll see what many ccp devs already do.until you are man enough to list me a pros and cons, without any bias, then i'll consider your argument. but as of now, the only 'pro' you have is because you say so. the cons may be assumptions, but they are valid.fyi, you're like one of those salesman that shows up at a door and just won't accept his product sucks. just walk away man."
"the pro is because i and many players of eve think so. in our opinion it will be a very good thing. equally your \"cons\" are your opinion. at the moment to my eyes you are in the minority. and i do not find either your arguments or ad hoc personal attacks to be compelling. we'll have to agree to differ."
"i'll do it for you...pros- personal amusementcons- major impacts and game abuse"
"i said it before, i'll say it here again:\"alliances may not participate in fw\" is not solving any problem. it tries to solve a number of problems, but fails at solving those. on the other hand, it introduces a lot of problems that are unnecessary.the underlying problem in the discussion here is that \"alliance\" means very different things to people. this ranges from \"a group of people with over 1k members holding sovereignty in 0.0\" to \"a number of small corps that banded together for mutual protection, some mutual help like pos use, removal of standings- or war limits, etc.\"to correct some common misperceptions:\"alliances are big, corporations are small\"this is wrong. taking into account only the 618 alliances with more than one corp, the average member count is 200, the median is 92  meaning that the average is affected a lot by the big alliances like goonswarm . a bit more than half of those alliances  322  have less than 100 members, 62% of them  388  have less members than 0utbreak, a corporation in the minmatar militia.\"alliances are there to hold sovereignty\"this is also wrong. only 91 alliances hold sovereignty right now. that is less than 15% of them.so. with these facts  easily checkable via the eve api  now known - think about which problem exactly you want to prevent with \"no alliances in fw\" - and think about how to prevent that problem correctly.is it \"alliances are big fish, don't let them in\"? well, you have corporations with over 130 members in fw already  0utbreak, kinda'shujaa, etc. . as shown above, most alliances are smaller than that. so the exclusion of alliances from fw is missing the point here. if you want to have the \"big fish\" out of fw, set a maximum member limit for corps joining fw.or, similar, \"alliances have the experienced pvpers, corps don't\" - uhm, seriously? 0utbreak, invicta., the corp of the guy who is currently reading this and is angry at me for not mentioning his corp, and others are not good at pvp? while, say, john doe's friendly neighborhood alliance is? again, the exclusion of alliances is missing the goal, wildly. i'm not sure why you would want to exclude experienced pvpers, but if you want to do that, you won't achieve this by excluding alliances.or is the reason \"we don't want 0.0 politics in fw\"? \"fw isn't supposed to be the vacation sport for 0.0 alliances\"? you will get politics in fw  you already have . this is good, though, politics is one unique thing in eve. also, 0.0 alliances already create fw corps to get some pew pew there. so you probably mean \"alliances who hold sovereignty in 0.0 shouldn't be in fw.\" but as shown above, a majority of alliances do not hold sovereignty. so if you want that, then do exactly that - no membership in a militia if you are in an alliance that holds sovereignty."
"if you have issues with level 4 missions in high sec how about starting your own thread instead of trolling this one?"
"ccp did get on it and caved."
"okay, after reading this thread i have to admit i am more than a bit annoyed.first off, i have never been even close to getting ganked with my empire character doing missions. why? because i do level 4 missions in a t2 fitted ship. it's that easy. why people insist on using deepspace and officer fittings is beyond me, but each to their own.secondly, i think most of the people who do suicide ganking is doing it because they have no other option in empire. funnily enough because carebears are in npc corps which can't be war decced or are in 1-man corps they jump from after a war-dec sorry for the caps . how's that for no ****ing consequence or risk? and war dec is a completely legitimate part of the game  and if someone says corp-jumping to avoid war decs is a legitimate use of game mechanics, then so is suicide-ganking .imo, it is beyond hyprocricy to whine about suicide ganking and the lack of consequences, when you time and time again see empire carebears deliberately corp jump or stay in npc corps to avoid risk with zero consequence.fair enough, let us remove insurance so suicide ganking becomes more difficult. at the same time, kick everybody out of npc corps after 2 months, and then whenever they are in a corp that gets wardecced, and they then corpjump, that wardec follows the character  only character, not the new corp that is created/said character joins  for a week/month.then there would be a way to add risk to now hilariously risk free high sec. and frankly, it's a natural extension of wanting to add to the risk of suicide ganking. both things are use of game mechanics. however, one of them is a response to a use of game mechanics, the other is a reponse to a complete and integral part of the game."
"signed, though i'd like to say that you should be able to be in an npc corp for more than a year. doesn't make sense to me."
"ah the usual lack of consistency. risk reward is important as long as it dont affect what you do right?"
"you're barking at the wrong tree. i run all my missions in low/0.0 sec. you obviously feel missions need a rebalance. but i will ask you again, why are you derailing this thread?"
"this is an interesting aspect of the discussion."
"something should be done to make all the sad people in this thread happy."
"signed."
"i will be bringing this up at the soonest possible meeting."
"yes."
"signed"
"my name is da'neth and i approve of this message"
"nice op, and very good comment from ix."
"most definitely get the data. and the images"
"i totally agree and ix has put it down perfectlty. updated api and data dumps should be available before patchday."
"sounds like a plan to me."
"the data dump is something that ccp give us out of the goodness of their hearts  hopefully, also, a business reason , and it is much appreciated. the data dump and the api set eve apart from other games, in that incredibly useful out-of-game tools can be created.we have just been informed that it takes two senior developers to create a data dump. i don't know how much time they need to make it happen, but it's clearly \"non-trivial\".given that it takes this long - and we're 7 months overdue - and assuming that the availability of 3rd-party tools is sound business for ccp, i'd much rather see t20 and prism take the time it takes to create an aasadddt  automated all singing all dancing database dump tool  and hit the \"dump\" button rather than creating a manual dump. if that means we'll have to wait a little longer now and it'll be fast in future, i'll deal.that'd need ccp management buy-in - a tool typically eats up more resources  time  up-front, whereas it will save lots of resources over the medium, and most certainly long, term."
"the prior information was not accurate, ccp is considering a closed beta for the linux client at some point in the future."
"honestly, just how fubar is the situation? the constant delays gives the impression that crossover is in way over their heads here, especially with the mac client."
"what prior information is being referred to?"
"please, just be clear and a little more communicative on the current status of the linux client.during the last months, all ccp messages i saw in the forums were vague statements telling that more information was coming soon... or one week later... but it never arrived : by the way, half a month ago, the beta testing was about to start:how is it that now this event is delayed until \"some point in the future\"? no pun intended, i'm just puzzled about the real situation."
"atleast start by removing the advance ones and to compensate give everybody +5 in all skill groups."
"agree... as a fellow aussie, it's fscking irritating...even better, aussies and kiwis should get a small discount to play because we loose an hour every evening in 'primetime' play..."
"there are alot of dialogues that could be \"don't show me again\" but aren't, and some that are and shouldn't be. this is one that should have \"f^%$& off and never speak to me again\" as an option.i get this 5 or so times per night on each character i have logged in, as does anyone that plays in the australasian tz.lost cause i'm sure, there's just not enough of us, but i vote yes with all my alts."
"well its just after 9pm and its downtime on the server.. right in the middle of my primetime im working data center missions atm, and every time i warp to the dc, i get the same message everytime. its only so many times you can read it.the popups for quite a few of the dialogs should be show once this session/mission, but i do see that the one anouncing dt should be compusry for the 15 and 5 min one, but the one hour warning should be \" dont show\""
"why should they should be compulsory. the 5 minute timer is more than enough  not the popup, the timer how about an option:[x] yes i can tell the time"
"absolutely yes please. if we're going to have pve content, and i think for a host of reasons we should, then lets' make it the best it can be, to match the rest of eve's quality."
"heck, anything to make missions more dynamic would be great.how about tieing the 'need-to-scram' leader in with the on-board scanner? when attacked without a point or when he feels threatened, he warps off to another mini-stage somewhere within 4au? when he gets to the new point he might get a new group of friends, etc and so forth."
"good ideas. for me at the moment lvl4 missioning is mostly mind numbing grinding. the only reason i do it is beause it's a little less boring than mining, and i also don't have to train extra skills.better ai would be fantastic, its ridiculous that i can blow half of their ships to bits whilst the rest just sit there like lemons until i launch drones or attack one of them."
"i would prefer shorter missions with fewer enemies and proportionally lower rewards so that i don't have to dedicate an hour or more to them.i'll take 10% of the enemies and 10% lp over any of this.  for example. it doesn't have to be 10%  the bounties will be intrinsically reduced by the numbers.i don't want fewer tough enemies. it represents a shift toward tanking instead of dps to keep your ship alive. you can't kill fast enough to keep the dps down, so you have to beef your tank up, making the missions take even longer. some of them are already way too long.sorry fellow forum whoar. not supportin' dis."
"i do think that this is a nice idea actually."
"valid topic for discussion, even if ccp come out with a different way to deal with it."
"/signed/salute to malvortex the bug and trollhunterfantastic. im about to go to bed - ill check the thread in the morning - but how about ham precisions: how do they shape up? do they look like current hml precisions or are they a different style? sorry for the noobish q ; "
"i think this needs a look at - missles in general are in need of a little more 'oomph'"
"ccp told the csm that pricing of the game time codes is a business issue, and that eve might be more expensive than other mmos on the market because it is a premium product.the csm explained that there were three main concerns, the lack of the 30 day game time codes so that players were forced to make larger purchases at once, the price increase compared to the old game time codes, and the communication between marketing and the players  players did not buy the story . furthermore, eva  csm ankhesentapemkah  requested ccp to consider lowering the price of their 60 day game time code to 29.95, instead of 34.95 as it is now.ccp replied that the current 60 day game time code will likely become the standard in the near future, and that supporting separate products is more expensive. nevertheless, they will relay the complaints about the removal of the 30 day game time code to the marketing department. they are working on making more payment methods available for subscribers, so that players that previously used game time codes can use these methods to pay for eve instead."
"i have something to add to this, that may  or may not  make sense from a business point of view;30 day gtc's provide old-timers with cancelled accounts a low barrier to re-entering the game. i can imagine that, if i had a character with a billion in wallet, and ccp launches one of those juicy expansions, that i'd be signing up for another 30 days.  with all the horrid dangers of being sucked right back in.  now, paying up to 150m to do that, is a good deal. a player could do that about 6 times, 7 times if he earned some money during his re-subs.however, if a player has to pay 300m  or more? , he won't be able to re-sub as often without paying rl cash to ccp himself. this could reduce the number of lost customers returning to the game.the point here is that most players come to eve for their personal favorite thing to do  such as; pirating, 0.0 alliances, industry, mining, exploration.. and i probably missed some . ccp cannot possibly address all these preferences in a single patch, although they're very welcome to try. the more times a player can re-sub while another player pays the bills, the better the chances are for ccp to draw a player back into the game as a returning customer.i think this is a consideration that should be weighed by ccp, although perhaps it already has been weighed.-ranges"
"i guess a lack of subscriptions will show ccp if they made the right or wrong decision here. i have 8 accounts, 2 of which always remain active. the other 6 i had running on 90d gtc's so they were relatively cheap to keep running even if not used too much. now with all these changes all 6 of the accounts remain idle and one may be activated from time to time when needed but that's it.so i dare say from myself alone ccp is losing about 4-6 subscriptions per month. not a threat, just an honest statement. my two main accounts will likely never stop paying regardless of price"
"coming from the other side of the pacific, down here in the philippines, i can speak for most of the eve-players that i've talked to that the removal of the 30day gtc and the price hike of the 60day have all but made them not to continue their accounts.some have resorted to more illegal methods of maintaining their accounts.the vote is unanimous here that we want the 30day back."
"i agree. faction ammo/missiles make t2 kinda pointless, long range stuff like scorch/spike/ect are pretty good but all the short range ammo is complete rubbish. the penalties are too harsh, way too harsh, especially on the short range side of things.t2 ammo is a huge disappointment, a lot of it was pretty meh when it came out, with faction ammo being in abundance and in many cases costing the same amount of isk as t2, what's the point?"
"conflag ftl"
"certainly short range ammo needs looking at and the long range would benefit as well.the penalties are just too much to make them worthwhile in any fit really."
"precision heavies. seriously"
"pretty please fix em"
"we're tired of the nano whine. compare the amount of posts and the amount of supports of this topic and see how it shows that most people that are'nt ******ed  thinks that nano is fine."
"oh god you make me puke. i'm afraid of changes when there is no need for a fix, boot.ini anyone? just cause fw came out, doesn't mean a whole new class of idiots gets to whine about getting blown up doing stupid stuff. i haven't been here since beta but last time i checked the years are piling up on my char and i have seen my fair share of changes and none of them have been \"shaking the pot\" if you can't deal with nanos you can't pvp. there is no middle ground. i tip my hat to the cva guys, outside the tremedous blobing they do, last time i checked they handled the nano just fine. its just verbal poo poo to sit here and have any kind of converstation with morons"
"i've heard all the arguments. i've flown armor, shield, and speed tanked ships. i've owned a snake set. after all my research i believe they're overpowered. sorry."
"as my main goes, so goes my nation."
"i dont even fly nanos and i think they are fine so wtf does your quip add up to now?"
"okay lets cut to the chase here. the problem is in mixing definitions in what is meant by a nano ship. to most people complaining about nano's - nano means: a fast cruiser hull that can choose to disengage from heavier/slower combatants after performing hit and run attacks. the reason this debate always gets nasty is that attacking that role leads to the promoting of blob warfare and whoever has the most numbers automatically wins. obviously large alliances with high numbers of relatively low-skilled pvpers want this. but the debate is not that clear cut. there is a clear difference between what is attainable with relatively conventional means: 3000-4000  tech2 fit, polycarbs, od's nanos, overheat  and what can be attained with rarer and costly assets  7000-10,000, with snakes, drugs, tech2 rigs rare modules . there is absolutely no problem whatsoever with the former - its simply variety in warfare and uses speed to dictate the terms of an engagement. if outnumbered by heavier, slower hulls these \"conventional nano\" ships can leave, choose their range, hit and run, and generally skirmish against indisciplined targets.whereas the latter class  and this would include extreme implanted clones, drugged up and equipped with faction fits  can lead to hulls sustaining orbit and transversal speeds greater than the ability of the game logic to hit or counter while being able to fire back themselves. there is a problem with extreme nano but this is a relatively tiny proportion of the player base and such ships are very rare  for example as an fc in star fraction i've only ever come across a handful of vagabonds capable of this opposing us in 0.0 .whereas the former class  conventional nano  is easy to counter and just requires a tiny bit of thought and re-equipping to neutralize or effectively hunt. a nano-gang moving around the 4000 mps mark has got the ability to burn out from gates or hostile hotdrop ambushes sure, but its utterly screwed by a combination of webbing recons, neutralizers, ew+interceptor webbing, sniping etc etc etc. sure this brand of \"nano\" will laugh at your classic tech1 short range battleship/battlecruiser blob on a gate but really so would tech2 snipers, so would a well-fitted rr gang, so would ew superiority, etc etc and so on. now i'm sure we'll keep on hearing insults and angry posting from the \"nerf all nano\" brigade but the reality is there are two separate issues here and its wrong to mix them both up. ccp have the challenge already of looking at changes to the game that reduce the abuse potential of extreme nano speeds without reducing the whole game to mindless blobbing. they know perfectly well that small gang raiding is a part of eve and needs to be preserved. so less of the general speeding condemnation of play styles would be helpful in general and in particular - lets stop labelling \"any ship that travels faster than mine\" as automatically \"nano\"."
"i disagree that even the extreme nano ships that you describe jade are actually a problem.there are ways to counter them, there are already mechanics in place to stop these very ships *despite* the enormous cost involved in achieving the highest speeds of 10km/s and more.i *know* these points have been made before in this thread and others but i simply want to add another voice to the many asking ccp to not dumb eve down any further. eve's combat mechanics are deep, varied and complex. so much so that they are often more complex than even eve's developers themselves understand.player ignorance is no reason to further erode that which makes eve special in the crowded mmorpg market - it's amazing complexity."
"don't get me wrong please, i know there are ways to counter these things and i personally believe that the extreme cost of these things is an balancing factor - popping a tech2 rigged ship and killing a snake clone is an immense fiscal penalty. but whats actually happening is that the kind of sustainable speeds these ships can maintain at that level just don't work properly with the mathematics of tracking and hit recognition. it literally breaks the game to a degree in an unintended fashion.the challenge for us  csm  and us  the playbase  is to address the issue in an intelligent way so we can advise ccp on resolving the broken mechanics at the extreme top end without destroying the game functionality at the medium scale nano speed and reducing variety and imagination in space combat. yep its all true, but i guess the issue is that currently ccp know there is a problem with top end velocity tanking in that their mechanics don't work as intended - something as simple as the mwd sig radius penalty being irrelevant because weapons simply can't track fast enough to keep on target is a case in point. means that the sig-size penalty is meaningless. this could get addressed by re-writing the tracking/explosion speed attributes to get bonused in some way from the mwd sig penalty on the target ship but its a complex issue to balance.so the challenge is - how to stop extreme hi end nano ships from being effectively invulnerable to weapons fire in high traversal situations without destroying the playability and combat variety provided by ordinary scale nano-ships. oh i definitely agree and the whole nano-issue is cursed by very ignorant opinions that see anything faster than a gate-camping drake as an abomination needing immediate nerfing. its vitally important that ccp do not listen to people wanting to eradicate speed tanking and velocity-based disengagement and the general raiding playstyle simply because they personally refuse to adapt their loadouts and accept that in a competitive environment they need to face the challenge of other player's creativity."
"would it be possible to bring back killer nos to combat nanos?"
"why would that be any more effective than neuts? if you battleship neut an orbiting nano its generally dead in the water."
"hopefully the devs will see it this way too. if they cave in to the nano whiners, we can expect the same treatment for ecm gangs, remote repping bs's and whatever tactic people start using next until we are left with only simple slugfests."
"giving my support to the op, not that the csm or ccp will care. i'm astounded that this issue wasn't brought up prevalently at the first meeting.that hot drops and blobs have indeed become a problem is no excuse for people, even with loads of investment, to enter pvp nigh-invincible. i'm all for fast ships that are meant to go fast in principle, but watching a typhoon travel 5km/s and faster is more than irritating. the demand for snakes and rapiers  which hardly are a solution most of the time; primary = pop  is also way too high."
"not only bio's, but evemails could be longer too!"
"too early to bring this issue to sundays meeting but lets keep discussing it please and i'll be happy to bring it to the following meeting with my advocacy."
"my 2  euro cents:well now that the door is open, i fail to see how they could prevent fw result to have *some* effect, *if fw ever have a result*. indeed, disregarding a clear win would be too disruptive, too immersion breaking. so the two low-cost way out are: the effects are negligeable and/or fw never have a result. more precisely:-there are no clear results, no faction are ever 'beaten'. for gameplay reason, i guess thats a set condition in the not so short term...  fw is now part of gameplay as is mission running or mining, a way into pvp here for the long run, not a transient feature tied to a particular storyline event, so it cant 'end' -the effect are just a bunch of news  maybe background of a chronicle at most , which impact only rpers.given the rather, hum, conservative, pace at which evolve the storyline  except for the sudden change that where needed for fw , we are not really in a hurry anyway..."
"i'm thinking it would go in \"rounds\" where ccp could set objectives like controlling a system or certain series of systems by a certain date, and let the players know what the result will be if they succeed or fail at the objective. then the players have until that time to achieve that objective to obtain that result.storylines could be written with these sorts of binary results, so that, for instance, ccp says \"if the minmatar militia captures these 3 systems in the next week, a million slaves will be freed.\" and at the same time \"if the amarr militia captures these other 3 systems, a valuable shipment of war supplies destined for the minmatar republic will be captured by the amarr navy instead.\" etc.players would then be able to look back at the canon storyline and say \"i helped free those slaves or capture those supplies.\""
"/signed  with reservations "
"high priority:0004 black ops improvementsx jump bridges and cynojammers0029 eve-mail issues0019 contract improvements0018 0.0 sovereignty issues0013 skill page tweaks0007 double click function on avatarsmedium-high priority0026 suicide ganking0012 minimum size of hud elements0009 alliances and factional warfare0017 empire war decs0030 pvp wreck ownership0003 problems with aggression timer0001 skill queuemedium priority0016 switching all ammo at the same time0015 pilot avatar listing0002 bombs need a boost0039 roleplay storylines0028 forum issues and fixing0021 assembly array issues0022 shares and dividends issues0024 experimental industry issues0027 drone implants0036 small freighterx corp -> alliance synclow priority0006 pillageable outpostsx more corp standing slots0011 electronic warfare icons0033 color deficiency0014 personal assets and hud0038 buff large autocannonsrejected/unfeasable/completed0025 game time codes0020 public pos arrays0023 sell order availability0008 cargo hold size"
"could someone clarify what this means? is this ccp's priority or a csm-determined priority? how did things get organized in this way? it's a great idea to have a priority list though, cheers to that "
"so it cost us players how much for this? basically 12 round trips to iceland to deliver a synopsis of the general forum. in all seriousness, what has this accomplished that couldn't be done over mirc?"
"on the final day of meetings, the csm sat together and had some fist fights over which things should be top-priority for ccp to do.this is the product of that."
"believe it or not but meeting in rl works a bit better than irc. looks like they managed with reasonable amount of work and i like most of the things brought up : "
"im liking how skill queuing is still only low at medium-high priority when it is one of the longest running topics around. looking forward to the roleplaying elements and such and i hope it works out, unsure what to make of the avatar stuff but then im not a capital pilot so i wouldnt know, though must ask why its so easy to bump an avatar having managed to bump one before in a stealth bomber at 30m/s.and sovereighnity however its spelt  should be good to look into, the roleplaying within that would immense were it to be devised but with the whole new graphics look outs, and ofc landing on planets, im sure a method much like that could be devised where going up close and destroying key targets only in small ships  like the limiters on accel gates  would be nice.hopefully all works out welldak's"
"this is ccp's priority that they received from us. we've been told that they will be addressing fixes/new content based on the priority for issues agreed by the csm. quite amazing really, but they are going to be directly weighting development effort on the results of the formal meetings and priority we set."
"oh wow, industry is at the bottom of the list. quite a surprise there"
"i am going to add nothing here  for the moment  other than duplicate an earlier comment  with a spot of bold  ok, give in, i will comment ... not all of us agreed with the final ordering or thought it made any sense whatsoever. indeed the manner in which it was done left, imho, a lot to be desired in that rather than taking an average of all the csm's views it was based on a simple majority  so effectively ignoring those not in that majority . it is probably clear from the results  and the shock of what became the 'top priority' and the small number of pilots it will affect compared to the issues that affect every pilot,eg. skill queue, user interface, etc  but that is the order which ended up being given to ccp.*however* the practice of ccp is to continuously review the priority of all ideas under development, and that means not only the ones presented in this csm-ccp visit but their pre-existing ones  some of which were discussed in passing off-agenda  and future csm-raised ones, so this list is, effectively, but a guideline as to the proposals. iz"
"well this was a waste."
"i have to say that i am disappointed  like many  about the prioritization of some items  ui fixes *cough more hotkeys cough* and skill queuing. but that aside i think you all did a pretty good job of letting ccp know in concrete terms what we players would like to see and what we think is important. this list reads more like the kind of information i would like to see in the devblogs and lists of future enhancments that don't give away cool \"surprises\" that ccp may have for us players. it's interesting when i read  in a devblog  the ccp thought that you all should have though about more long-term over all strategery for the game than short term game mechanics. i think they forget that we have to deal with these issues on a day-to-day basis and long term pie inthe sky virtual worlds stuff is great and all but we want this stuff done..yesterday. the csm business seems a hard row to hoe, considering what we \"think\" know of some of the personalities and internal bickering that we have read about. i for one will say congratulations and thank you to all concerned. lets hope ccp can keep their end of the deal and deal with some of these issues swiftly."
"no kidding...ui, skill queue, suicide gankage/insurance and industry fall short of some of that top crap?? speed tanking tweaks is not even there at all. the only factional warfare isssue you could see a problem with is pimping that same old tired alliance thing? do you people even play fw? do you care how n00bs and casuals experience this?looks to me like the 0.0 chowderheads are lockstepping all over this one. not supprised though, bout how i figured it would be."
"yeah the 3 people with meaningful 0.0 experience on a 9 person council are surely the reason that this list and most of the items presented were and still are complete crap. clearly our 0.0 gameplay experience will be greatly affected for the better with changes to0013 skill page tweaks0007 double click function on avatars0012 minimum size of hud elements0017 empire war decs0030 pvp wreck ownership0001 skill queue0015 pilot avatar listing0039 roleplay storylines0028 forum issues and fixing0022 shares and dividends issues0027 drone implants0036 small freighter0006 pillageable outposts0033 color deficiency0014 personal assets and hud"
"0004 black ops improvementsx jump bridges and cynojammers0029 eve-mail issues0019 contract improvements0018 0.0 sovereignty issues0013 skill page tweaks0007 double click function on avatarstell me why black ops or frickin avatar clicking is higher in priority to the largest portion of the playerbase than say...nannos, skill queue, ui, lag, suicide gank/insurance and any number of other things.and i stand by my query:"
"it's not a matter of their absolute value, it's a matter of how valuable they are when compared to the difficulty of implementing them. aside from 0.0 sov issues which is exactly the kind of big-picture thing you want them to call high-priority , all of those issues are really easy to implement quickly. giving us a real mail client as opposed to a system that most cell phones implement better should take some small number of man-hours, whereas fixing lag would require millions of dollars and likely a fundamental change to human nature as well. fixing lag would be much better for the game, but it's a lower priority."
"lag fix = 0.0 sovereignty issues = introducing multiple simultaneous objectives to break up blob fighting. there is no magic lag fix beyond reducing the size of blobs. anyone who tells you different is selling snake oil."
"and seeing an alt named mctard arguing with a goon called dramaticus that a  the agenda is dominated by 0.0'ers vs b  no its dominated by carebears. kinda convinces me that we hit exactly the right balance. when extremists on both sides are screaming its a fair bet the committee did its job quite nicely."
"i see, that sounds sensible. so i'm an extremist for wanting to know: out of curiosity what about my other questions? nannos/speed tanking arent an issue to anyone at all? no tweaks needed??fw has no problems other than letting alliances mix it up?something else occured to me. t2 ammo. doubt i need to say it but, compare most of it to the faction ammo...one would think this sort of thing at least would be more important than avatar clicking functionality."
"so how would a wouldbe 0.0, but still empire carebear like you have changed the list?"
"nobody has yet posted a nano thread on these forums with anything like a real solution or perhaps any nano thread at all, i certainly can't think of one . as such, it couldn't have been discussed in iceland. also, given the delay times on the submission process, i don't think anyone had a handle on what the issues with fw were as of the deadline for this process which would have required the post to be on the forums about a month ago . both of these will presumably be dealt with in the next round of submissions to ccp - stick a thread on here, and see where it goes from there."
"nano isn't an issue in the way any of the nano threads have been presented. ie a global nerf on speed isn't an acceptable solution to the relatively rare incidence of uber-rigged out 8-10k+ nano ships breaking the tracking mechanics. the csm didn't agree with general nerfs to speed. ccp is already looking at ways of addressing the extreme cases but the solution will not be quick and easy to implement and will like involve the complete overhaul of many propulsion-related systems. in that context i'm sure you can see that csm supporting an \"omgnerfnano1111\" thread would be a ridiculous waste of everyone's time.course it has, they will be addressed and advocated in this session. but alliance corp involvement with fw was the big one."
"fair enough."
"you're being surprisingly reasonable for a character named mctard. what's the catch?"
"no i'm more arguing that the majority of the council was useless since they were more interested in playing 'chieftains of the internet' instead of addressing real issues. but hey im sure you'll find a way to utilize double clicking on avatars in your next brothel chatroom so maybe it is a victory."
"so what does this stuff mean? stuff like \"empire war decs\"... ok there are a lot of issues around that, but what decision was made? is it a high priority to improve the ceo interface? to cut the cost, increase the limit on war decs? or is the high priority decision that you want to remove war decs? there are a hell of a lot of things that every one of these list items could mean..."
"everything on this list... was apparently a topic that was up for discussion.and every topic has since received its own thread in the assembly hall.each thread starts out with \"we discussed the follow topic... which raised some issues like...\"and each thread ends with \"ccp is aware of the issue, and will work towards resolving it.\""
"that bit is disappointing me also.there better be some kind of followup on that, like :- will be in patch xxx on this or that month.- 2 full time programers/ui people/whatever have been assigned to solve the issue- work can not start on this until xxx date, but then we have y people assigned to it, and expect it to be finished z time after, to be included in next patch.i fully understand that the above itself takes some time to assess, and as such that info can hardly be available at this time.hence why i'm hoping to see a followup.else it's a load of soon tm ...."
"the problem with that is that nobody would believe them even if they did give dates. soon tm  is always soon tm , even with numbers attached, whether ccp is right this time or not."
"time for ccp to turn that around then isn't it?and definatly something the csm should push for.ccp knows very well how to approximate how long a given task will  should  take and to work towards deadlines.yes they might get it wrong, software can be tricky in that regard.i do it myself daily, and have myself had projects suddenly blow up in my face, and *occationally* have had to push a deadline.to point beeing however, that a new deadline was set! and communicated to the client! and i've yet to miss a 2nd deadline /fingers crossed most of the issues on that list are pretty isolated tasks, that *can* be assesed with regards to time etc.an example on the opposite would be their ongoing effort to rewrite their network layer etc, but few of the items on the list are anywhere near that kind of complexity.so i stand by my first post.soon tm   regardless the wording  will simply not do on issues specifically brought up by the csm on behalf of the players.if so, then nothing has changed at all, and the whole thing will be a huge disappointment to me personally."
"where is the pos issue on that least? the pos overhaul? which was, i might add, a significant issue to which number of csm candidates responded favorably? how come it is not even on the list?"
"what about adding new time intensive skills for those who already have high amounts of sp's. for example skills like +1% to cpu/pg with x5 multiplier and pre requirements like several x1, x2, x3 skills up to lvl5?you talking about specializing in industry, think about specializing in engineering or electronics. high pre requirements of new skills will make them far from overpowered and in second hand give interesting alternative to learn for those who paying ccp from really long time."
"okay i'm convinced that the csm as a whole didn't give this issue a proper hearing last time around and i'm going to present it again this sunday."
"thanks for your help, jade. even if the csm doesn't want to hear you, it would be still be useful to ask the others why they rejected escalation. if they have specific balance concerns, we can attempt to answer them here."
"jade, my thanks goes out to you again for sticking with this thread. i've put a tremendous amount of effort into trying to bring this issue to light. to say it's been frustrating to see such a glaring and obvious problem almost entirely ignored is a slight understatement, particularly with such lame excuses from other csms regarding why they felt this shouldn't pass.if you need me to throw together some digest of this thread in order to simplify your presentation of it please let me know. i'm quite busy at the moment, but i will find some time to do so if it will help the cause."
"i need to write up the submission template by 18:00 hours tomorrow evening - if you can get me some notes  probably pm at the star fraction forums best bet  i'll be sure to include them.fingers crossed we can convince people this time."
"another very enlightening example of this problem  with a quote from the csm meeting to further illustrate the issue  -nighthawk -t2 heavy missile launcher x6t2 bcus x3t2 mwdthis fit requires 417.5 cpu / 735 pg- remaining cpu  276.25- remaining pg  152.5nighthawk -t2 heavy missile launcher x6t2 bcus x3this fit requires 367.5 cpu / 570 pg- remaining cpu - 326.25- remaining pg - 317.5sleipnir -t2 425s x7t2 gyros x 3t2 mwdthis fit requires 271.25 cpu / 1138.2 pg- remaining cpu  322.5- remaining pg  686.8so using my prvious comparison of the nighthawk and sleipnir, and adding only a t2 mwd, one can see that while both ships are anti-support, both ships shield tank, and both ships generally fit their lower grid weapons  autos and heavy missiles  that the nighthawk is left with magnitudes less grid than the sleip.in bold the nighthawk does not even have an mwd and they are nearly tied for cpu, and the sleip with an mwd still has more than twice the grid of the nighthawk without an mwd. hello? problem?"
"he prolly means the ship portraits that appear on top of the screen for each locked target. yea, color coding those would be nice to have.thumbs up."
"currently ships in the hangar do not display the effects of modules, rigs and skills. this did occur in the past, but was removed due to people exploiting the mechanics by off-lining cargo expanders so that they would not suffer the drawbacks but kept the passive bonus of the module. thus the cargo space increase is now an active effect which required the module to be online. when not boarded, all modules on a ship will go offline, resulting in less cargo space being available.alison  csm inanna zuni  indicated that the 30 second time delay between swapping ships was the reason behind the frustration that this issue caused. ccp is currently looking at decreasing this session change timer, but cannot change the cargo hold issue."
"cloaks already have the \"drawbacks still active while module offline\" feature, afaik.is there a good reason why this couldn't be expanded to include the modifiers cargo expanders grant too ?"
"not gunna happen.idiot."
"yes"
"ccp quickly dismissed this as a possibility for the market system, as performance will be drastically impacted, and the market was designed to match a buy order with the lowest sell order. this is a highly optimized system capable of handling the large amounts of transactions in eve.eyj<U+FFFD>  ccp  commented that eve's market was designed to be totally open, and limiting access to certain orders would destroy this open market principle.rather than changing the market, improvements should be made to the contract system. the csm will submit suggestions for this in a future meeting."
"its too bad that an alliance or corp cannot get a 'preferred vendors' list, or that producers cannot set discounts for a group. if we could do so, you would have a way to punish corp thieves, piewrats or war targets. you could reward a group for providing a steady market.for example, its difficult for a 0.0 alliance to use the market in their own 0.0 stations to provide discounted ships for their alliance-mates. any ship put on the market at low prices can be picked up and resold by an interloper who does not even need to dock.the two issues i see are:1. can't give discounts to people you like.2. can't block thieves/interlopers/enemies from manipulating your own station's market.i understand the market's optimization. its limitations are however making contracts the only way of accomplishing some transaction tasks. while very useful, contracts are not the market and are much more difficult to use."
"how about a confirm sell based on corp standings, not a automatic one? maybe some time limit for when seller unavailable."
"take a look at this"
"ccp recognizes the issues with the forums, and devs suffer from them as well. the problems originate from some server-side limitations because of the use of .asp instead of .aspx, but there are also session limitations in browsers, which cause problems. there are also issues with the load balancer, which occasionally sends people to a different node which does not recognize the user's authentication, which is an issue that can be looked at. ccp would like to move the forum to another database, and will change the entire forum in the long run but a final decision and plan has not been finalized yet. the csm and the players will be kept up to date on the developments.regarding the forum not being readable in the ingame browser, there are no plans to address this as the current ingame browser is no longer being developed. there are plans to replace the ingame browser with different software."
"exactly what is there to finalize? this frustrating issue is several years old. when my alliance needed a new forum it was done in a few days by one person. and it works better than this forum any time of the day. about one hour ago i tried to reply to a different thread and finally gave up after clicking on the \"reply\" and \"quote\" links for several minutes straight without any effect other than the forum page refreshing itself.i find ccp's answer on this subject to be disingenuous. what's really going on?"
"deserves it's own topic but it's mentioned in this one so... aha! finally the cat is out of the bag! not that we didn't already know ofc, but it's the first time it's made official more info!!!please!!!seriously... more info - including a timeline.theres  a few...  of us who thourougly believe in trying to enlarge the eve experience through the use of the igb.and while it's quite exilarating to hear that theres actually plans for doing *something* about the miserable state of the igb, the vague \"as an aside only\" comment about it leaves me worrying about the timeline...  another 5 years? "
"according to ccp, making pos arrays public is technically impossible because the jobs require a local hanger and this would interfere with station ownership of the structures themselves. shayne  csm serenity steele  asked for different ways to address the lack of public slots.ccp plans to add more slots to npc stations, but with restrictions such as maximum job time to prevent people from easily clogging up all the available slots. eva  csm ankhesentapemkah  commented that there are a lot of industrial corporations that have set up a pos to get around the limited amount of slots and that they should not be robbed of their investments. according to her, an increase to the slots in npc stations would be welcome, but not by huge amounts.ccp said that price dynamics were removed when the new s&i system was implemented; they will look at reinstating it. in the distant future, more personalized structures might be added to the game that might also have a lab function."
"setting a lab to \"public\" could be acheived by removing the slot from the lab while also making sure there's enough stront and fuel to last until next dt in the tower, and attaching it as an actual/additional slot  with different pricing schemes and additional warnings  to an existing npc station or player outpost.labs with \"public\" slots can not be unanchored.once set as want-to-be-public, a slot only becomes public at next dt if pos is not in reinforced and has at least 1 ful day of fuel/stront.each day, the same check is made again. if failed, the slot is detached.in case the pos in question is placed in reinforced mode, all current jobs get cancelled, returnable materials are returned to the job installers at the npc station or player outpost, and the lab slot is detached from the station/outpost.this is one possible solution that, while cumbersome, might possibly work."
"nice work, the solution to fixing the problem is removing anyone's chance to compete with it. making this change means you are invalidating thousands of researchers working in research alliances, not to mention the 10's of people who have invested billions and billions in infrastructure to provide this service.increasing the number of public slots is not the solution. it goes against everything ccp stands for in regards to wanting people to socialise and have player run services. the only reason research operations are currently popular is because there are no available npc slots.putting this change through, you kill the entire player run research industry  which is already barely profitable  in an instant.hell, allow the public access however limit it to only t1 bpo's  that don't require materials . have a message like \"the station owner isn't trained to handle this bpo\" if you attempt to use a t2 bpo in research. don't invalidate the entire industry to save a bit of time."
"what will happen to bp market if too many more slots r opened up? i do not want our pos public!"
"they won't be. this change means everyone gets station slots now so no-one will use your pos. they will sell their goods based on the 90k it costs to make a battleship bpc whilst you are paying for pos fuel on your large tower.but then, you will find it's cheaper and much easier to use an npc lab so you close down your pos and we end up back where we started."
"welcome to 2005."
"the ability to install jobs from a different location in the same system would be great, and fix a lot of this. example: my bpo is at a station around planet 1. but i can install it to any other station, or pos i have access to in that system. now, slots can be made available for public use.also, more npc slots need to be introduced over time. the population of eve has greatly expanded, and basic services need to be expanded alongside them. however, the increase needs to be carefully balanced so that slots are available without 30 day wait times if you want one, but research corps still have a need to fill. i believe that that balance could be easily reached.or: add all the new research slots in low-sec."
"i've proposed a possible solution here - put simply, allow player corps to set up research/manufacturing lines in their existing corp offices and sell those publicly."
"ccp informed the csm that they have a game designer and 3 programmers currently dedicated to implementing ui improvements and cut down on the 'excel in space' appearance of the ui. ccp is also interested in making the in-space view more usable, as currently almost all space-based interaction is done through the overview list.the standard behavior for double-clicking avatars is something that can easily be implemented, and will be looked into. regarding electronic warfare icons in the overview, ccp indicated that they would want a more dynamic solution, where information is only displayed when it becomes relevant to the player and does not take up space otherwise. as for the minimum size of the various windows in the game, it will be hard to change this in the short-term. individual windows can be changed one at a time, but changes across the board will not be possible.ccp will look into changing the skill page to clearly display the currently trained skill.the personal assets page was set up as it is by design, the data is not available locally, and loading everything would be heavy on the database. this will probably not be changed. sorting items by subcategory and general category will be something ccp is going to look into.regarding the display of pilot avatars in the side bar of the chat channel, ccp will look into making this a toggleable feature. the csm noted that the reason behind this is that people want to see as much names as possible in the list, and that avatars take up a lot of space.making icons stand out better for people affected by color-deficiency, ccp is aware of the concerns but it will consume a lot of resources to replace the current textures and thus it will likely be surpassed by issues with a higher priority. they will keep it in mind to make future icons stand out better to people affected by this condition."
"a toggleable transparency removal for icons would almost instantly alleviate a lot of these issues.not fix, but make them more manageable - and it should be easier to implement than a complete overhaul of all textures involved."
"this would be another good place to start: xaen's list of ui improvements.yes, i know it's shameless agenda pushing. but there's a lot of good stuff in there, and i didn't come up with it all. the stuff you're posting about is relatively minor compared to the hotkey problem, threading problem, modal dialog problem, and shifty overview problem.my current favorite improvment is a very simple one: if the mouse is over the overview window, don't update the sort order or add new list elements to it.trying to click something that's moving around results in misclicks a bajillion times.almost everyone sorts their overview by distance, but when things are moving, or spawning on grid, it's impossible to use because everything is moving around.edit: support"
"does this include fixing the ui per se? right now my windows jump all over the place, i lose overview settings randomly, etc."
"ccp you astonish me. first you say \"we have a game designer and 3 programmers dedicated to the ui\". then you say \"we can't change a glowing indicator because we don't have the resources\".one of those statements is a plain lie.please fix the glowing indicators on weapons and modules:check out bitmaps or ui resources from source controladd a black background or border around the glowing portionask a visually impaired person if they can see it better nowcheck back into source controltestrelease patch"
"\"excel in space\" is hardly the problem. the problem is a buggy, badly designed interface that requires three times as much effort from the user as it should. well, that and a pile of subprograms evemail, igb, chat, etc  that have problems that were solved one, or even two, decades ago. seriously, i remember my dad's email program at work in the early 1990s, and it was better-implemented than evemail in every aspect but autolink. similarly, take any basement-made chat client from 1985, and you'd probably be improving upon eve's chat functionality dramatically. i might actually be able to type a third sentence in one of those programs without hitting my character limit. that said, thanks for the plan to overhaul the igb. i just about got up out of my chair and did a happy dance when i read that. me likey."
"i'd pee my pants if they actually implemented this!"
"basically it is an improved giant secure container that allows a pilot the ability to do a quick refit and store ammo1. usable by pilots with anchoring 52. solar/ nuclear powered  rquires no fuel or other pos mgmt bs 3. has no other functions  no mining, refining, labs etc 4. does not have any defenses beyond armor, though not a bazzilion hp,it should be easy to destroy.5. should be cheap  since it is damn near disposable this would encourage small gangs to setup forward operating ares that are temporary in nature; for supporting short term objectives. they can be deployed any where and can be scanned out with probes or directional scanner and of course destroyed similar to mission structures."
"colin  ccp  researched the balance in assembly arrays, and could report that efficient equipment assembly arrays will definitely receive an increase to slots with possible minor adjustments for other arrays as well, while all the material multipliers will be looked at."
"ohh, does this mean that we might see the component assembly array modified, or maybe a new efficient version added that does not have additional waste? would be nice to be able to build capitals at a pos when all the build slots in stations are busy."
"from purely an rp standpoint, i support this. i also think however, that the issue is of little importance. guess that's why this was labeled as a \"min.issue\"."
"shouldn't exotic dancers be considered charges anyway. i mean, i use them up all the time."
"i completely agree. exotic dancers are win in my book, must have at least one in my cargo at all times."
"this is a really tiny issue. yes, it would make the situation a bit more realistic, but for that matter, i should be able to turn on my mwd get up to speed and turn it off, and not lose speed until i hit something. we have space friction in this game and i do not support because the current situation is a accepted reality."
"ccp is aware of the issue, and noted that there currently exists a whack-a-mole type of play, where players repeatedly undock, fire a few shots, and redock. this is undesirable, but will have to be carefully balanced to account for various situations and possible exploitive strategies. [ccp addition: this subject is about the <U+FFFD>dock/jump after aggression<U+FFFD> timer  60 seconds , not criminal flagging/thief timer  15 minutes .]alison  csm inanna zuni  observed that ships of all sizes have the same time limits, and that it is generally harder to destroy a large ship opposed to a small one. alision  csm inanna zuni  and valentijn  csm dierdra vaal  suggested that the timer should be changed based on ship type.alex  csm bane glorious  was also concerned with remove-repair alts, whose actions currently have no impact on the aggression timer.ccp is aware of the issues and heard the csm concerns, and will work towards developing a solution."
"please make a new forum for all the minutes topics.for the love of god."
"separation of church and state, man."
"there was once, and then it was removed. can you say spam?"
"holy spam!"
"i would support this topic, but i can't find it for all the damn minute topics in this forum."
"we decided to do it this way for a number of reasons. first of all, we had to decide if we should create discussion threads or let you, the players, create threads on the topics you felt like discussing. we figured that creating a separate thread for each would allow everyone to easily find the topic they wanted to discuss, in addition to being able to read the full meeting minutes in the sticky thread. creating a separate forum for this is not an option due to the low traffic in threads we'd get there and jita park speakers corner is too informal for these discussions. we are of course aware that this will clog up the forums a bit for a short while, at the same time getting feedback on these threads are as important as anything else being discussed here currently. once people have started discussing what they wish to discuss the csm meeting threads will drop down or remain up and get mixed in with the rest of the threads and the forum will clear up and show the threads where people are actively discussing the various topics, and you can always go to page two to find the thread where you wanted to discuss other things, thus bumping it up  by discussing, not by posting \"bump\" .how we present the meeting minutes in the future is in no way set in stone and we're also looking forward to the csm giving us their opinion on the subject in future meetings, maybe coming up with alternatives or better plans."
"we could definitely do with a new category called \"meeting archives\" and move this stuff  +finished issues  over to wrangler - this will allow assembly hall to more effectively showcase the current issues prior to csm vote."
"quite. assy hall for new issues, 'somewhere else'  like the dear departed \"don't post in this forum\" forum  for the meeting records and any follow-up discussion which doesn't propose a new issue.possibly the biggest problem with doing a good job as csm is the difficulty in being able to find the new issues being brought to us. separating out the 'asked and answered' would help a great deal ...iz"
"well here's a question - the meeting minutes topic for the 0.0 sov issue say that the players/csm are expected to come back with a concrete proposal for how to achieve the desired results...are we supposed to post suggestions in that thread, or create a new issue thread that will be supported by players/csm and then brought to the csm meeting again for a new vote?"
"geez. if this isn't the most screwed up way of presenting the minutes and simultaneously clogging the assembly hall forum. it's unbeleivable. instead of a single central section of the forums, we have three separate areas that the minutes, etc., are posted in. the one serenity started, the minutes over on the nav bar to the left and now this. i never know where this stuff is going to pop up."
"wrangler, you just buried everyone elses threads."
"need better organization in general.separate forums for acknowledged issues, separate forum for addressed issues, and then separate forum for all these results that wrangler just posted.and allow csm delegates to lock threads in the assembly hall and schedule thread deletion.because they can never plan on thread sorting, but still really need a way to organize issues, more forums and forum control is really what they need.or one of them create a completely separate forum with powerful organization support and use that instead."
"we had a proclamations forum right?should get that back, and only allow ccp to post threads, but give everyone the right to reply. like the information portal is now."
"the problem s :currently, afterburners go almost completely unutilied outside of mission deadspace areas where mwds are prohibited. this is because mwds offer many greater benefits that vastly outweigh the drawbacks  signature radius, lower capacity . in addition, smaller ships are not very popular in 0.0 pvp as their lack of firepower and durability over larger ships such as battleships and hacs. due to the heavier skill requirements of bses and hacs this is a significant barrier to entry in for newer players.recently, factional warfare has introduced some revised roles for smaller ships by creating different types of complexes, some of which can only accommodate frigates and destroyers, others accommodating ships no larger than cruisers. i like this system, but i don't like the idea of hard limits that simply prohibit larger ships from entering these complexes, as eve is a sandbox and i think that features of this nature remove a tool from the sandbox.tl;dr:afterburners suck, small ships mostly suck in 0.0  fw helps but hard limits on ship types go against eve's vision the solution:create tactical environments that encourage players to use smaller ships by incurring penalties based on signature radius. the details and resources of these tactical environments could be implemented both as entirely new environments  nebula clouds containing a unique resource, such as moon minerals  or as a revision of existing environments  specific asteroids belts, exploration complexes, or even around moons, planets, and stars . they would have various penalties that would apply to all ships that enter dependent on ship's signature radius. this would both create roles that only smaller ships could fulfil well and encourage the use of afterburners in these complexes in order to minimize environmental penalties.tl;dr: create environments where using bigger ships is harder due to penalties based on sig radius.there would be a simple formula for calculating these effects:penalty multiplier =  signature influence  /  ship signature radius so if a ship with 400m sig radius entered an environment with a signature influence of 100m and a penalty to ship velocity, his velocity would be reduced by 75%  100m / 400m = 0.25% ."
"now for some juicy examples:shattered asteroid field  asteroid belt rp fluff: this asteroid belt has been subject to some intence gravitational influence in the recent past, leading to many asteroids being broken up into a hazardous debris fields. micrometeor impacts reduce ship maneuverability.signature influence: 200m  ships with a smaller signature radius will be unaffacted environmental penalty: ship agilityareasolized asteroid field  asteroid belt signature influence: 100m  ships with a smaller signature radius will be unaffacted high-orbit debris ring  moon/planet rp fluff: this moon has had some kind of traumatic impact in the past, ejecting much of its surface material into orbit, forming a ring that scrambles ship sensors.signature influence: 200menvironmental penalty: sensor resolutionlow-orbit debris ring  moon/planet signature influence: 100mactive coronal sphere  star rp fluff: this star has an unusually active corona, resulting in highly-variable magnetic fields that interfere with weapon targeting systems.signature influence: 200menvironmental penalty: weapon tracking/explosion velocitysuperactive coronal sphere  star signature influence: 100mdisruptive thermal/kinetic/em/ballistic nebularp fluff: this nebula is filled with highly active chemical components. the energy released by these reactions makes it difficult to maintain hardened shields and armor.signature influence: 200menvironmental penalty: shield and armor thermal/kinetic/em/explosive resistancehighly disruptive thermal/kinetic/em/ballistic nebulasignature influence: 100mwhat do you guys think? worthy of support?"
"/signedtarminic-- your suggestions are pure win"
"would only be fair if ccp unleashed the phenomenons of space upon those who inhabit it"
"wow...sup...xz"
"i agree, marcus. some of the ideas posted have been good, but more could be added, which i plan to address on my website.if you follow the qen, over 50% of the playerbase have no interest in pvp, and yet they get the most content additions. the last major addition for the pve side was the lolqual, which 95% of owners don't even use for mining  it makes a far better jump freighter . invention was a good change, as well as the exhumers, but that's about it.there are also some items which would appeal to both sides, such as the ship-based habitats listed on my webpage. in short though, please add some more detail to the pve side of things ccp."
"adding more types of game play can't hurt, imo. more ways to play the game, means more ways to have fun."
"you already have enough attention. don't believe me? well okay, let remove that you get flagged from looting cans, concord buffs, 25% hp buffs and see how it feels then."
"i agree with the trend that marcus notes; i disagree with the black & white nature posted. i follow the story, do missions, build stuff, but i also pvp, as my current corp, the amarr militia, shows. pirating is just one aspect of the game, though it does seem to attract more than its fair share of jerks.that said, i think it's about time the pve and industrial side got the same level of attention. we have a vibrant dynamic economy with ccp even hiring an economist to keep track of it all, an entire manufacturing system that means one cannot help but build ships and modules simply in order to pvp, and yet the purely pvp crowd have the audacity to claim that their chosen profession should take priority and looks down their nose at those who produce the ships they fight with.i've always wondered what would happen if every person with industrial skills in the game went on strike...edit: funnily enough this 0.0 issue thread is almost entirely about industrial issues as well, so the cry can hardly be levelled as though we're all high-sec newbies wanting our cake and to eat it.this statement is just dumb and i'm not normally that blunt in my posts. capital ships, dds, titans, an increasing number of t2 ships aimed at pvp, numerous balances and changes all aimed at pvp, the introduction of an entire new militia system aimed at pvp, are we seeing a trend here? then again the tone and topic of your post puts you squarely in marcus' camp of griefers, so i'd not expect you to actually consider the entire game rather than your own personal sphere.don't get me wrong, as i said, i enjoy pvp, but lets not kid ourselves that the other aspects of the game have had fair treatment."
"adam raises an interesting point."
"given that ccp were surprised that the csm were taking up minor issues, big ones like this i think ought to be given more weight. yes, making this possible should at least be discussed."
"yeah i'm for this discussion as well. i think its important in the interests of combat variety. as for how to keep enemies from just warping away at mid range combat range - how about some kind of interdiction bubble cannon that needs a battleship grade launcher perhaps, and fairly expensive ammo  or a weaker/shorter ranged bubble  than dictor/hic capable bubbles? might be a horrible idea but would sure make things brutal"
"what mid range combat could do with is a medium range mod which diswades disengement although allows escape unlike a scrambler, something like,gravition disruption field.30km optimal 60km falloff.hi slot item designed to fit on bs or gimped fitted bc'sactvation time 20 secondwarp scrambles for 2 seconddecreases target agility by 35%increases % speed required to warp out by 7.5%"
"there are three ranges in eve  with a little variation for officer mods and overheating close range: 5 km aka web range.mid range: 24 km aka scram range.long rangel 170km aka fleet range.if what you are proposing is to allow for some kind of combat mechanic for the ranges between 24 and 170 then yes. but i really can't see how that can happen without forcing a mechanic to exist in those ranges. anyway, a thumbs up for the discussion."
"after discussing and evaluating several options, the csm voted to change the amount of required votes to bring a proposal to the csm from 5% of the playerbase to 25% of the amount of people that voted in the election, effectively lowering it to 2.75%."
"i really thought this csm thing was fictional pulp. now i c how the mechanics of game direction will improve. a greater effort might be shown in future to bring more players into the vote. these notes might help some."
"my bad, i tried looking through eve-search for 'votes' but it must not have had cached.i support."
"p<U+FFFD>tur  ccp  explained that the current 5% amount of players to bring an issue to the csm was to ensure that not a single alliance could force their issues through, but that 5,000 votes would be a more practical number at the moment. ccp wants to keep this democratic mechanism in place, but understands that either the percentage will be too high so that it would never be obtained or too low so that a single alliance can force all its issues through.the csm conferred on its own and changed the required percentage to 25% of the amount of people that voted in the election"
"it was suggested to involve more alternates in the csm or to discharge uninterested alternates and appoint new ones, but the csm voted against these proposals, and no change was made to alternates."
"each empire faction is granted three tiers of battleships. tier 1, which is usually considered the introductory battleship. tier 2, a slightly more expensive battleship that's more useful than the previous tier. tier 3, the best battleship money can buy. great dps and overall some of the best tanking battleships according to their bonuses.of these four empires, three of them follow a trend. their battleships each have bonuses for every single tier toward their primary source of damage. the fourth, however, does not. let us begin.amarr:armageddon. 10% capacitor and 5% rate of fire for large energy turrets. 7 turret hardpoints.apocalypse. 10% capacitor and 7.5% optimal range for large energy turrets. 8 turret hardpoints, 2 launcher hardpoints.abaddon. 5% large energy turret damage and 5% armor resistance. 8 turret hardpoints, 1 launcher hardpoint.minmatar:typhoon. 5% large projectile rate of fire and 5% siege and cruise missile rate of fire. 4 turret hardpoints, 4 launcher hardpoints.tempest. 5% rate of fire and large projectile damage. 6 turret hardpoints, 4 launcher hardpoints.maelstrom. 5% large projectile rate of fire and 7.5% shield boost amount. 8 turret hardpoints, 3 launcher hardpoints.gallente:dominix. 5% large hybrid damage and 10% drone hitpoints and damage. 6 turret hardpoints.megathron. 5% large hybrid damage and 7.5% large hybrid tracking. 7 turret hardpoints, 2 launcher hardpoints.hyperion. 5% large hybrid damage and 7.5% armor rep amount. 8 turret hardpoints, 1 launcher hardpoint.caldari:scorpion. 15% ecm jammer strength and 20% jammer optimal. 4 turret hardpoints, 4 launcher hardpoints.raven. 5% rate of fire cruise and siege launchers and 10% cruise and torpedo velocity. 4 turret hardpoints, 6 launcher hardpoints.rokh. 10% large hybrid optimal, 5% shield resistances. 8 turret hardpoints, 4 launcher hardpoints.as you can clearly see, each empire follows a specific trend for what type of weapon hardpoints they get and what type of bonuses they get, each for what they specialize in.amarr - lasers. gallente - hybrid turrets. minmatar - projectile turrets. caldari - missiles.however, the caldari are the only empire of the four total that do not follow this trend. in fact, the black ops battleship seems to have better bonuses and hardpoints for combat than it's actual tech i counterpart. i thought black ops were supposed to be ewar platforms?out of each faction, the caldari are the only empire that falls short on their love for missiles. the rokh is one of the larger disappointments due to it's lack of use in the mainstream. a normal caldari player would rather fly the raven due to it's bonuses for missiles than a rokh, when overall the caldari navy has more bonuses for missiles than hybrid turrets, giving few reasons to train hybrid turrets that high unless they plan to fly gallente.i feel it's time that the caldari's battleships get some attention. the only ship in the game to my knowledge to have 8 launcher hardpoints is the state issue raven, a ship few will ever see in their entire eve career, while every other ship has a full 8 hardpoints to suppliment their navy's main focus. reconsider the bonuses and hardpoint layouts for our missile-spewing allies and give their battleships what they deserve. there are various bonuses out there to give each ship.kinetic damage bonuses. rate of fire bonuses. velocity bonuses. flight time bonuses. precision bonuses. explosion velocity bonuses.there are also various issues with the tech ii caldari battleships, but i've run out of room to discuss them. perhaps another time once these have been addressed."
"erm... what?"
"you do know that the rokh was made a rail boat because of the caldari players whining that they didnt have a decent hybrid platform right?p.s. dont destroy the best sniper in the game just because it isnt how you wanted it"
"you do know that oses like windows have their own regional formatting code that takes care of all of this for the developer, right?"
"agreed."
"they had one back in beta. i guess it would be embarrassing to show the amount of open issues : nonetheless, it would make bug reporting a whole lot easier."
"i agree with the op. shares have no place in the game, unless a proper stockmarket is implemented.even then, there has to be a way to delist one's corp from the stockmarket."
"of course they arn't. each race has pros in one area, and bonuses in one area. thats why you stay in a fleet with a curse, rapier and falcon for mega win."
"bull****. tell me, just exactly what \"other race\" is ecm and neuts?"
"before anyone else posts please consider how your idea will not only effect the game, playability and its effect on player attraction and retention but more importantly you should consider what impact this has on the csm.it is their support you seek as and as such you should not waste anyones time by suggesting anything that doesn't further their best interests or expands their enjoyment of the game.seriously just having some fun.meds running low.cant get to 0.0 cause of those really cool \"choke points\" that ccp says are cool and \"expand\" the enjoyment of the game.i can't tell you how much more fun i have jumping into a gatecamp that blows up whatever i am driving before the armor repper does a cycle.good times there.good times.gunna have to run missions for about a week to be able to handle this kinda financial \"expanded\" fun. seems my isk and my \"fun\" expand converse to the 8 guys camping that gate and their isk and \"fun\".oh joy.heres an idea.please just post your travel rates and a central ghost character to accept payment and make them toll roads. i mean really it would allow you more people in 0.0, which is a major issue for those silly people who actually want to do pirating to make a living. strange how no people could adversely affect your career like it does pirating.another thing is how can those in 0.0  pirates and such  that want more people not figure out that if we cant get there then they wont go there.honestly do you need to be told that?really?no ****?ok, well consider yourself told.and before you say that \"well all the good stuff is out here\" think again. all this isk is in empire and after a month of pvping you will sell all that good stuff for the isk the make. then you will go back to doing what...?ratting?you know they make non-network games that you play alone on the computer now days. so you can \"rat\" there and chat with your friends and save about 20 bucks a months.just saying.i mean really, think about it.i understand some of this is to allow for some use of tactics and \"terrain\" and to actually add stratigic value to a system, but to isolate hundreds of systems behind 5-7 routes just seems kinda ... stupid.anyway.no real point here and since we havent even seen the minutes of the last csm meeting in iceland much less any positive effects  actually any effects upon the game would show something in the game i really am just posting to waste time.that and it is neat to see how many people actually read this crap.i mean come on.ccp has included drone implants as a catagory in the contracts for like forever but still nothing.anti-cloaking fields.all kinda neat sounding stuff that wont see light of day.cause expanding the enjoyment of the large subscription blocks.hell, ccp has gone so far as to do the \"wink wink nudge nudge\" of releasing a client version that supports playing multible accounts on the same computer and actually had the hypocrisy to offer it in the same breath that they state they dont approve of doing it!priceless poo there.right up there with the large corps and alliences using third party software but once it hits mainstream it gets banned.or maybe that is how they will make everyone join an allience? you only get the good stuff if you join an allience. otherwise we dont allow you to actually have the cool \"ping\" voice alert software that tells you when a ship jumps into system.strange how both bacon and \"hotboxing\" are not officially \"approved\" or supported by ccp yet one is banned and the other they actually change the official client for.life is full of stuff like that. like how long will the same pvp packaged as \"factional warfare\" take to wear thin?how long till ccp starts doing something for solo play outside the \"mission\" pill?or how about some consistency in the storyline?player actions impacting the universal storyline, consistant or not?what is really mind numbing is you read all the way to here to find what?funny."
"neither the topic name or the op post makes any sense. at all."
"this will be a short typing i hope im never good at massive walls since i don't like them lolnow to start of i have noticed and i am sure some of you guys and girls have noticed that the mod for say cruise missile launcher only needs missile launcher operation yet the missiles it self needs cruise missile, heavy missile operation, heavy missiles and alot more before using ammou there for you can not use the mod untill u can use missiles wich is very desiving some times for new players or people training missiles for first time. i suggest to fix this problem we  we as in ccp  make changes to the cruise missile launcher so you have to train same skills for the missiles.example:cruise missile launcher atm only needs missile launcher operation lv 1after it will needcruise missile launcher lv1missile launcher operation lv5heavy missile lv 3missile launcher operation lv3standard missile lv3missile launcher operation lv2secondary skill requirmentmissile launcher operayion lv1i was allso thinking changing or adding a skill so it give bonuses to the launcher as well since caldari arnt that good for solo pvpwell some of there ships arnt and that extra kick might bring caldari back into pvp instead of just missioning all the time.btw im gallente not caldari and im not train caldari so this isnt just for my benefitsflame on"
"yeah."
"[x] the ninja salvager should be aggro'd to the mission runner after the first wreck is salvaged, because the mission runner owns the wrecks, and i feel that ccp needs to change the current dynamic.the last reply on the 1st page gives very good reasons why ninja salvager should be aggro'd to the mission runner after the first salvage is stolen from the salvageable wreck that has the mission runners name and/or corp abbreviation on it."
"there is an issue i am rather surprised hasn't been brought up  o.k. i skipped some pages and may have missed it . ninja salvaging is currently restricted to salvaging because it is safe, if people are criminally flagged for salvaging and they have already invested significant skill training and isk into the ability to scan down these missions, they will have no reason not to start looting the cans as well. if ninja salvaging had never been safe and profitable, maybe the suggestion would be a good one. as it is, you will just give people reason to steal anything else of value that might be in your wrecks."
"i r piwate too."
"i didn't bother reading the thread tbh. i'm just gonna go ahead and assume that tchell is owning everyone in debate.oh, and i think that it should stay the way it is with no aggro.but i would love to see it aggro so that i can kill mission runners who shoot me, all day long. please god make it aggro."
"i'd like to see a vessel introduced with the ability to both scan and do combat, which would prevent the hassle of changing ships especially when you find a site in unfriendly territory. it could be prevented from being used as a simple search and destroy vessel by giving it time reduction bonuses to specifically the scan probe launcher, which would make in an ineffective recon ship. it would probably need cpu, or a cpu reduction bonus to the scan probe launcher, and a few mid and high slots for equipping the necessities like the analyzer and codebreaker, while at the same time housing adequate combat ability to do some unknown sites. perhaps even a ship like this for each non-capital ship size would be nice  frigate, cruiser, battleship . faction or t2 wouldnt bother me and i'm sure many explorers would appreciate such a ship no matter how hard it is to acquire since i know many go through a lot to get the sisters scan probe launcher. i'm sad something like this wasn't discussed at the summit but hopefully such a ship comes about."
"this was already suggested and was turned down by the csm."
"we haven't officially decided what to do about issues recurring and in a situation where convincing arguments can be made that that the csm reached an incorrect decision first time around i'm not averse to hearing items a second time. the player base has raised some pertinent criticism about our handling of this issue - i think its worth us asking ourselves if we made the correct decision since the exploration ship debate has direct impact on solo playstyle and expansion of a whole area of game content."
"i'm glad this is the case. most exploration content can be completed solo it just can get a wee bit annoying to have to consistently switch in and out of ships for exploring, clearing and then hacking/archeology. an exploration-specific vessel can help save time, that's about it really. while it was turn downed originally, i'm glad the opportunity to present it again is available."
"i'm very much convinced we need a better discussion on the issue, since a lot of decent arguments came from the originators of the thread. i personally love the idea of solo explorers out in hazardous space being able to operate from one ship  like an science/exploration  vessel and make a living from this stuff. and i find that always forcing players to use multiple ships / gang mates for every task is actually forcing a degree of conformity into playstyle that shouldn't exist in a sandbox environment like eve. this universe needs room for loners and maverick explorers in the deep frontier and i think this issue promotes that."
"i like to explore and think that the ships we have now are sufficent.....exploration ships should not be designed to be able to take out everything thats out there. theres to much computer ai and what not for the scanning that takes up all the room. t2 frigs for scanning should be enough. and the excuse that one can not do the plexs by themselfs in low or null sec is not very defendebal. people with enough experiance and proper combat ship  once the site is found  will be able to handle all the threats. just because u can not jump into all the better null sec areas right away should not be the argument to have a bigger ship for that purpose. it takes time to train to the level to handle all the rats in the null sec plexes. this \"we need bigger ships for exploration because i dont want to go back for my other ship\" is a silly and empty argument. skill up to be able to meet the threats and u wont have a problem doing it solo. you need to change your outlook on life. you cant have everything at once and right away."
"this post makes no sense. people aren't asking for an all-in-one ship because they can't do low or null sec exploration by themselves. it was proposed so people don't have to switch ships so often.people can already meet the threats. this ship would just cut down on travel time. i agree with you to an extent about skilling up sans the soapbox banter about lifestyle changes or some garbage."
"hammerhead and probably other devs have already said as much in their eve-tv interviews from months ago, so it's not like it's a big secret how they feel about riced-out speed ships. though before you ask, no, we don't know any specifics."
"doesn't that term denote modifications that are purely visual, pretend to have a performance effect, but don't?"
"yes, but...you know what i mean."
"basically there is a big difference between what most nano-complainers talk about  3000-4000 mps speed  and extreme nano  7000-10000 mps sustainable velocities attainable with implants, drugs, souped up rigs etc etc.  the former is a tactic and entirely valid response to the challenges of the environment, the latter can cause problems because it messes with game physics. the difficulty is addressing the latter in a way that does not damage the former and reduce the game into who can blob most on stargates even more."
"no problems bane, please make sure we get the submission doc for the issue on the internal mailing list by tomorrow evening 18:00 as well though. all the best."
"linkagethere is a link to the post of a suggestion and on that post is the original topic.there is alot of stuff written in the back story articles  linkage  that i feel is verry underused, there are things wirtena bout an antians civilisations deralict stargate on the outskirts of the amarr system , that the first jump gate between systems was built in amarr to hedion  surly therefore given that in the timeline it was 2051 years ago , it should look older compered to the other gates  my point is there is an awful lot of for lack of a better work lore been written for eve , but verry little of it is transferred into in game locations.my original post highlights one such thing, the system of new eden supposedly has a giant stargate larger than any other structure in eve, as well as lots of ruins and wrecks ect, i remember there being ruins and wreks on the scanner years back , but now as large collidables dont show on scanners there is no hope of finding anything. i supose my request is that more of the \"lore\" be translated to in game locations and that we regain the ability to explore them , i think it would deepen the whole atmospheric of the game."
"i saw it located as one of the priorities, but the individual post explaining the proposed changes is not within the post. a simple mistake i guess or did i just miss it?"
"i'm eager to read them too. and it is always a bit disappointing when people promise exact days. if you are not 110% sure it is going to be done by the time you say, then a \"soon\" is far better. lowers the expectations and disappointment of people."
"i started a thread in features and ideas:to the original post.i would like any support on this i could get, since i think this would be a valuable and good addition to the game. thank you."
"isnt needed imo. use a destroyer."
"read answer. i know its not needed. it would however fix the picture of \"ships used in their role\" and move the maraudeur out of the \"best salvage-ship\" role. and you wont salvage and loot a level 4 with less then 2000m<U+FFFD>. also the work is minimal, concidering the introduction of a new ship class being rather extensive.- no new model needed- no change in \"attachable turrets - since no weapons can be mounted and the tractors/salvagers do not use an \"iconic weapon\"- no pvp balance issues, since this ship has a rather well defined role."
"it's not in that role currently. my ship is. ask those who see me salvage out of their tractor beams how effective i am."
"depends, \"fun-factor\" is also an opportunity cost, and this factor is pretty low in missioning for some.the hauler profession may be \"alt\" for many, but for some it<U+FFFD>s amaybe for some time a \"main\" . the central issue is, that the logistics of the open market are suboptimal. you have to travel too often too far to get what you want, especially when you want to stay flexible and just not be bound to a hughe reserve of stuff in one or two stations.for example: last week i had the idea to spread probes to more places over the region, so that everyone does not have to travel all the way to the trade hub. but even then one \"customer\" i interviewed was unhappy about the five jumps he still had to travel to get what he bought. so i think there is a certain need to be able to provide more logistic services for hauler/traders.i<U+FFFD>d like especially to ask jade constantine about this issue, because in his agenda flexiblity and dynamism, even it was more concerning warfare, was written pretty bold."
"any csm care to weight in or are you busy bickering?"
"can someone please lock this ****ing thread.i mean really it was not ment for anyones soapbox but my own.and until you can show how the csm have done anything, good or bad, debating their currently nonexistant hypothetical impact is a waste.one i dont want my name on thank you.i have enough trash threads.god i can not believe this thread is still on the front page.what a waste.die ect..."
"based on our feedback, ccp has created an internal ui focus-group inside the company. once in a while they will be flying a guy from ccp us, who is an expert in ui, over to reykjavik to help rework the ui.so the csm has done something. but you will probably not think that it counts.. well, then wait for the minutes. while nothing will happen instantly, things will change. for instance the assembly arrays are probably getting changed."
"finally, the voice of reason.pls ignore all of these other pvp wannabes."
"i read over the minutes and paid attention to the pos stuff listed and it had nothing to do with what the dead horse is about. did csm not understand what we want, why wasn't this talked about?"
"i did the same thing, i read it four times... just to make sure. i am growing extremely disappointed here. i think what csm was really doing, what some may call it, a political horse trading, paying attention to the \"pet projects\" and ignoring a general and unilateral call for action on this issue. this is an absolute disgrace, and should be taken in the account when the next so-called elections come to pass. absolute disgrace! and all those people who support and bleed everyday due to the outlined pos issues should voice their opinion - and call csm \"horse trading\" out."
"support added same to the csm for they lie about suppoorting this great ideea"
"as none of this is detailed in the minutes, more support."
"those are two thumbs up seen from the side."
"so how does the ceo of a corp with members skilled in industry, not combat, prepare for a war dec? \"ok mates, lets all blind these guys with our mining lasers!\"oh yeah! thats exactly why you, no skill pvp pilots in empire, declare war, for the easy targets. if you had pvp skill, you would be in 0.0"
"you must be profoundly stupid and inexperienced to think such a thing.i was expecting much more sensible changes like the ones suggested my assembly hall thread, instead we have several months later, absolutely no change on the ccp position. a dedicated fuel bay doesn't make them even remotely relevant--they are a gimmick right now rather than gameplay, to that end no one cares about jump bridges or covert cyno fields when the core stats of the ship favor virtually every other ship class in the game. at no point is the opportunity cost of fielding a single black ops worth the cost when you could have had an insurable carrier or a handful of hacs and battleships for the same amount. when every circumstance favors other ship types 100% of the time, its clear black ops need a more dramatic revision than some token, non-combat tweaks, particularly when you can't apply any realistic fits to any of them.that someone can suggest that the fix for a combat ship is some byzantine logic with a hauler boggles the mind. the solution to black ops is bridging haulers guys relax. as i've said before, bridging recons and or haulers is meaningless, costly and counterproductive--you can't siege pos, knock out station services or anything of value. it's especially wasteful when those same recons could have traveled to a system on their own without obstruction. we need parsimony of balance not some roulette style balancing where the tech two version is several magnitudes worse than its tech one hull much less a single recon ship.that someone like jade with the pretense of being a guerrilla warfare expert could bring nothing more insightful or persuasive than this is truly telling and disappointing. this was an area where only a handful of people could provide meaningful contributions and one that was as a result, at risk of being marginalized because of its time and skill investment--lucky for us, both csm and ccp completely failed to deliver."
"wow, i'm totally agreeing with this. i'm going to fish out the old blackops boost threads, as there are many issues with blackops and i can't believe that only the jump capabilties are being discussed here."
"exactly. fuel bay, jumping into cynojammed systems etc etc does not solve the fundamental issue, which is that black ops, like assault frigs, have no real world role. its the old \"putting a band aid\" on a broken leg story.you can already jump into cynojammed systems by using the gate. before you say the system is camped, what exactly is a black ops meant to acheive in a cynojammed system that is camped? attack someone in belts? do people rat when they are camping a cynojammed system? nanoships or force recons are better for moving stuff in. perhaps you catch a ratter or someone in station in a camped system,good luck trying to kill such a target before the people camping rush to gank the black ops. back to point, there are several different real world idea's for blackops that actually give it a use in real world pvp. i have written down the best idea's i have seen in the forums. i have written the best idea for each category of pvp. they can be inclusive or exclusive of each other1. large fleet pvp - black ops become doomsday resistant/immune long range jumpdrive snipers. a bunch of these ships jump in or uncloak.2. small/mid sized pvp - having the portal ability to portal any ship sub capital. this way, a black ops can portal his gang to destination and jump though himself afterwards. just now, whats the point of portal when you cannot portal hic's etc through?3. solo pvper - well, best i read was turning these into cov ops cloaking battlecruisers, since thats pretty much what they are."
"black ops issues:-resists: it's a t2 ship, where are my t2 resists?-cloak: bo gets a bonus no targetting delay due to cloaking, but the improved cloak give me a delay in scan res. so wtf is that?-cloak2: can we haz cocd? bo has the stats of a force recon yet not the cloak-fitting: more grid/cpu please-2ly jump range? come on...-give me tank or ewar or something, it has no role...-can i portal in a useful ship, a hictor/interceptor anything."
"without greater range and a fuel bay they cannot reach their intended function as they cannot reach enemy territory.for supply purposes we need a covert ops transport. this could just be a higher level transport, say level 3. covert ops transport, it can jump with the black ops battleship. it should just be a higher level transport and not a separate skill. however add the ability to fly a covert ops frigate to the prerequisite to fly the actual ship. the covert ops transport should have 3 hi slots  no turret or launcher hardpoints ...primarily to allow a salvager, tractor beam and cover ops cloak. mid and low slots should be probably 2 or 3. 2 rig slots. cargo capacity about 1/2 of the current blockade runner. handling on par with a blockade runner."
"what is their intended function? i have yet to see a single pvper actually define how to use a black ops even if it could jump further  which is no bad thing .my cargo expander redeemer can benifit from such, since if thats all that is changeing, then all black ops will become are jumpdrive haulers. with most alliances bridge networks the way that they are, you can jump all the way from deep 0.0 via pos cyno's or bridges to 1j from hihgsec and if the gate does not have a bubble up, just though to highsec. on the return journy, skip all camps by jumping straight to a pos cyno from high sec and bridge/pos cyno yourself back solo. is that their intended function? because thats all they are going to be used for if changing jump ranges is the only function."
"you're talking about transport ships as the antidote to black ops battleships. no one cares that you think there should covert transports given the ubiquity of carriers, rorquals and bridge networks. i'll paste this a few more times until you understand how spurious and irrational this is: you're talking about transport ships as the antidote to black ops battleships. you're talking about transport ships as the antidote to black ops battleships. you're talking about transport ships as the antidote to black ops battleships. you're talking about transport ships as the antidote to black ops battleships.in any event, covert haulers already exist; its called a pilgrim."
"one complaint is that you can't haul the loot due to fuel requirements. the black ops battleship still has to jump, i'm suggesting that perhaps we need another ship to fulfill the role to collect the loot and such from such ops thus alleviating the problem. the transport in itself can't jump on its own, it would only be able to jump just like the covert ops frigates with the black ops battleship.it could be used to carry additional fuel as well or additional ammunition or a combination of the two thus extending the black ops operational ability. the largest problem with the black ops battleship itself is it lacks the range to reach many systems. it also has a small cargo capacity relative to the fuel needed. the small cargo capacity affects more than just its jumping though it limits ammunition for the operation making it hard to operate for extended periods of time even if it can make it to enemy space. a covert ops transport would help alleviate that problem."
"there function was to strike into enemy space with small commando raids, something they can't do right now due to constraints of jump range, fuel and ammunition reserves."
"small commando raids? define \"commando raids\" in eve."
"the ability to jump into a system and hit soft targets without necessarily having to contend with the gatecamps in between.  cynojammers i still believe should block them :   "
"currently arazu + mining op = sin and manticores"
"to be frank - whilst the proposed issues/changes to black ops are useful, they still leave the ship roleless and underhanded in combat. the jump range and fuel bay isnt the base concern, its more so the ships have no true role in pvp.a suggested fix has been that of creating them as 'bs force recons'. has been discussed at great lengths in many topics, so wont spam anymore. but yes - whilst its good to see them being looked into, scan res, whole 'unable to warp cloaked' and so on gives them a whole variety of issues  let alone holding no advantage in most scenarios vs their t1 variants. "
"and in what way is a black ops bs superior to a nano gang for that purpose?"
"jump to what - is the enemy going to open you a cyno? what is a \"soft target\"? i am not trying to be defficult here, i am pointing out the fact that these ships are useless for raiding roles. if ccp called these kung-fu ships, then people would still be like \"omg, its the best beause it has the word kung fu in it, so we can kung fu our enemies\". its like stealth bombers, there are people today who think stealth bombers are the best simply because they somehow think it has real life connection.my friend, i have done many solo and \"commando\" raids. such raids rely upon speed. if you are not fast, the mark will see you in local and warp out or dock up. or even logoff before being agressed or call for backup. your commando raids are actualy what current nanogangs or cloaking nanogangs do. they can charge in commando style, kill people fast and run back to safety. if you genuinly beleive that a black ops pilot will somehow send a recon or cov ops to destination then you may as well send a nanogang though. if all that happens with these ships is extra fuel, then all people are going to do is use them as cheap jumpdrive haulers insted of pvp.and pvp is the point of these things."
"i was just comparing the stats of the redeemer with the armageddon and i am a bit surprised to see the stats of the redeemer are even worse than those of a simple tier 1 battleship. trading an important low slot for a not so important med slot, lower shield and armor hp and no tech 2 resists seems pretty crap. with those kind of stats can it even rat in 0.0?"
"put a shield extender in that mid slot"
"will all those \"its fine except for the fuel bay\" fans just quit.unless this ship is for stealth hauling then it really does no crap to fix its lack of combat ability compared to its t1 counterpart. add to this a half billion dollar price tag and i often wish that whatever crap you people are smoking was available and affordable to people in my area.its a combat ship so lets try to focus on actually making it useful there ok?"
"sometimes its better to work in small steps rather than big leaps at once. they'll have to have one covert ops or recon ahead in order to open the cyno. a stealth bomber is best used for an alpha strike when the person is already distracted. if you stay to shoot more than twice your most likely dead. the problem from ccps viewpoint is that if they make it the equal of a t1 battleship even, then the defender will have little to no chance. it is better to boost in small ways first and see how it affects it rather than a large boost at once."
"i'd say the following improvements should be looked at:1  seperate the cargo and fuel bay for all jump ships including jump freighters and capitals, plus add a fuel bay for recon ships in order for them to carry liquid ozone  exactly enough ozone for two cynos at cynosural field generation 5 . the cyno generator on these ships is currently epicly underused, and this would be a good addition.2  allow covert cynos to be dropped in cyno-jammed systems for real use of a black ops bs.3  give the ships bonusses to their race's recon ships, combined with reducing the number of guns, and adding a 100% bonus, to the damage to allow for easier fitting.now for an example: the redeemer:the damage and tanking abilities remain unchanged here, however the utility ability is greatly improved, with an added midslot for an ew module, and the two spare high slots for nos/neuts makes the ship much more flexible. also an extra 75m3 drone bay allows you to carry spares  unlike the ship in it's current state , because let's be honest, you're going to be behind enemy lines for a while, and you're bound to lose some drones!this is not necessarily a boost to the ship, it just allows for much greater flexibility. other than the nos bonus  which follows the whole 'wasted bonus' of amarr ships, but that's another topic , these changes do not boost the ship in any way other than flexibility.the nos bonus, similar to the one on the pilgrim and curse, however instead of adding amount, it reduces the reduction by half, which is exactly the same affect, but again, allows for greater flexibility, rather than such a long wait between cycles, remember this is a hit-and-run ship, not a tank-machine that can sit there forever.similar bonusses should be given to the other races as well, along with a redistribution of slots in order to allow for use of those bonusses:gallente - warp disruption range  possibly an infinate point? minmatar - stasis webifier range  100% bonus to range instead of 60%? caldari - more ecm strength and a higher ecm jammer strength  make it like two falcons rather than just a really expensive scorp "
"for large fleets, mid gangs, small gangs and even solo pvp, these ships are pretty useless. playing the \"t2 bs cannot be better than t1\" card is not strictuly true. a cerberus outclasses a carcarel. a zealot outclasses a omen. loosing a omen is pretty much profit. loosing a zealot is a small loss. loosing a equivalent of a uninsured carrier  black ops  is a big loss. a faction module outclasses a conventional module. a t2 gun outclass's a t1 gun. a officer bcu outclasses a cheap t1 bcu. cost stops people pvping in fully navy fitted ships. cost is a big factor in balance. thats why the vast majority of eve does not use slave sets etc for pvping. back to point, these ships lack a real world pvp role. small nanoship gangs are far superior to someone using a black ops. thats the issue, not some fuel  extra range is welcomed though "
"i actually find navigating the bops an issue. using in-game mechanics only and using the map its far too confusing. eg:using 'jump to' lists all available cynogens, not just those in reachusing capital navigation menu lists all systems, not just those with a gen or active cynousing map unflattened is confusing for directional understanding and flattened you lose the range sphereso this means toggling to an external tool to try to navigate... nightmare tbh. and with the blended travel ability of bop's and jump freighters its even more of a 'stick to your known routes' handicapany way to get an ingame map toggle for cap travel? or adjust what we have?-bone"
"well seeing as how this is the 'hot-new bo thread', ill post stuff here in more depth:noah was right to prenerf them - the issue is that having known they were prenerfed, and that the older players would want a ship to keep them ingame, and keep them entertained etc...why was a known issue left so late in the day to be fixed. good intentions or not...foresight was lacking. sorry :pandrew is right with his points there - the range is too short to be of any tactical advantage - and the logistics needed for jumping makes them useless for the majority of 0.0 combat. why spend 10 minutes preparing for a cyno jump, when you're only 3 jumps out? combined with this is as he said...the fuel usage. a possible fix would be ofc, a seperate fuel bay - but what might make folks want to use these more, is maybe no fuel cost for jump portaling? only capacitor? who knows.personally, id prefer not to see haulers be the answer to the fuel cost answer. those who trained capitals have to work in teams, even to move. a battleship should not need that work, especially when us 'jump drive' folk already are tied down in that aspect. heck, for a jump of sufficient decency, we'll need three characters/players present. one cyno  god forbid if we need more than one , one hauler, one black ops. id prefer not to have to have such teamwork just to use my battleship, seeing as we have the other end of the spectrum  carriers/dreads etc  for that.finally - as i stated in my earlier post, there is no 'main issue' with black ops. its the whole shebang. the scan res is nuked to hell and back due to the cloak, and for that reason, we have to fit a sensor booster, should we want to lock faster than a carrier. fair enough you might say, but using my ship as an issue  and make no mistake..the widow is the better of the four children .. i have to give up a mid slot to fit the sensor booster. to lock in a decent time, that means scan res. which means no targetting range  which is already poor on black ops . combiend with that is the fact that im an ecm boat. so i cost 600 mil, have no tank, and cant lock fast with my ecm, so will be jammed by a lesser ship such as a falcon. at which point, i become useless. fair enough, those situations are avoidable to an extent, but the fact remains that the attributes of the ships do not match their role. guerilla warfare ships. yet cant hit 'fast and hard' because they have 1. poor dps. and 2. cant lock at any decent speed.oh - and then theres the last point of 'worse than t1 variations'. the widow is relatively ok  minus the above  in comparison with the scorp. you dont lose much bar from ecm range  big deal, but bareable , and in exchange you get higher dps. raven and scorp in one is nice. but i see no real value in the sin, or panther, or redeemer. and i try and spec as much as i can for these ships in knowledge.so - yeah... thanks for the confirmation on you're working on it...but please whatever you do, dont think that list encompases all the issues.ps - warping whilst cloaked is viable! dont let the whiners dictate how you balance the game :d"
"especially now with faction warfare, this would be an amazing feature.i currently have an absolution sitting in highsec, amd -9.0 to amarr, am in faction warfare, and have a -4 sec status. i cannot even get this ship to lowsec to be moved by carrier.i would love ccp if they allowed this, you dont need to repackage them, just make them movable.if you add a ship maint hanger to a freighter, it would not encroach on carriers jobs as they would be impracticle to use them in combat or anywhere other than highsec."
"even though you can courier-pack anything smaller than a bs for transport in a freighter, and you can use a carrier otherwise, some definite strong support."
"definitely allow freighters to carry unpacked ships or transport wrap them. simple restrictions of nothing in the cargo bay at all  to stop them being used as super freighter - itty 5 with full cargo times ? .only can be taken out at a station, though should appear as loot in a destroyed freighter  recoverable by another freighter  just to make things more interesting and risky  read only used by the stupid or desperate in low/no sec so as not to tread on a carriers toes "
"add a skill que. tired of skills that end at 4 am, and have to switch to another skill before bedtime. have 4 accounts. very irritating."
"i would completely settle for having a one skill queue. when my 3 hour skill is done switch to the next level or have it automatically dump into a long term skill that you've had your eye on for a while and would like to chip away at."
"i'm all for allowing 1 skill to be queued up, and ccp removing training from accounts not currently active. it gives ccp more cash by not allowing people like myself to disable an alt account while i train a 30 day+ skill, and makes a large portion of eve happy that they aren't missing as much training time - especially new players who's skills will be running out every few hours or less the first few weeks."
"even a queue limited to 24 hours total training time would solve the basic problem."
"it would be a nice feature"
"good to hear you are looking into it."
"this is really overdue now...."
"hi there. im a new player, and i have something to weigh in that i think you guys are missing.a lot of the skills i want to get into require long skills to unlock. random example is the two level 5 electronics skills needed to unlock the short cloaking device skill. in this situation, i want to learn the prereqs for cloaking devices, not one of the prereqs for cloaks and some oddball support skill that i was intending to learn at another time. new players are trying to catch up to the minimum skillset needed to be useful in eve as it stands. one of eves greatest features is that each tree you can go down as a path has an end. i want to be the best caldari stealth bomber pilot ever, i can do it. me, the guy who started the game in april 2008. now, ill be nothing but the kestrel/manticore pilot to my team, but i can do it, and be as good at it as any other pilot whos been playing since launch and has mastered bombers, nano battleships, exhumers and whatever else he wanted to for all 4 races just because he has so much time in.the problem here is that the lack of a skill que means that i have to micromanage with no less than 2 third party aps  evemon and battleclinic  and scheduling of my time that is in direct conflict with my ability to enjoy my game. the excel in space comment made over the ui applies here as well. there are times where this game is less an enjoyable distraction and more like a second job. adding some kind of ability for me to not have to drop what im doing and run to eve constantly would do much to fix that.ive run into periods where the only skills i want to train are synced to annoying periods. work and sleep are two of them, and big ones to be sure but the really annoying skill rollovers are any that tick during downtime. not just the short daily downtimes either, but the nice long ones like for the deployment of the new features set.yeah, the ability to que up a second skill would be nice. nicer still would be for the game to assume that if i trained level 1 and 2, and the skill pops for eve to go gee.. i should probably train him into 3.now, i know the possibility for exploit with this mechanic, but what if you limit it to one auto rollover per skill. like if i accidentally forget to pop covert ops frigate from 2 to 3, it does it for me, but not from 3-to-4 or 4-to-5. that way if i go out for dinner on a friday and the date goes better than id expected, i dont have to pass on my social life just to roll a skill. im not farming a character, and i still have to come back pop the skill later, but at least i dont have to decide between something in real life and my character.perhaps limit how many times that rollover can be used too twice a month perhaps?i like that better than a que because it has less of a chance to be exploited. it also helps with that annoying hey this 7 hour skill is gonna mess with your day mechanic."
"there is no need for some imbecilic weakness built into the system, this is something that should have been in release as a core part of skill system. can you imagine if you had to log in every 2-3 hours to toggle something trivial to make sure you kept gaining rested experience in wow? absolutely no one would tolerate that because it's sloppy and detracts from the overall experience.your ui team must be a bunch of interns and boyscouts."
"i read lots of the posts but couldn't read all of them so if someone proposed this idea before me consider my vote to it...if not then here is my \"new\" idea : ...how about a train new skill...skill? you know like umm under the learning skills add a new train tree that makes you able to que skills with better and better results the more you pour skill points into it. say  just an example  lvl 1 allows you to que up skills into a 1 day time frame and ea lvl grows it exponential...this format would allow for those annoying short time skills to train without constant relogging..but not let the 20 day + 36 day que up while account deactive. as to ccp contention that it encourages game play to log for skills..sorry..total bs! most play when they have time not because they just happened to have to reset skill. and even if what they contended was true...its your account..you paid for it..if you want to pay real money to just train and not play thats your right..you paid for it.on a side note... with my alt i've been in this game just after it came out of beta  some of my friends where in beta..i was a e&ber  and the que issue has always been just that..a issue..that they have always pushed off into the future and never addressed. it has always gotten mouth service and promises but never addressed. it is high time it is taken from the issue catagory and added to the solved catagory...not middle...kindly upgrade it to top."
"i still support the idea of a skill queue, anything from 12hrs to 2 days long would be fine. it is the short skills that are a pain, especially when they end when i am not able to login to eve to start a new skill training.when i have to login to start a new skill, say, before i go to work, i am sorely tempted to sit down and play.... heh, if that did happen i would lose my job, and then not be able to pay to play eve! . it is more annoying to login just to set a skill, and not be able to play.i will be happy if they at least just implement this for the time being, but that's me! ab"
"why not add a skill queue implant or item that cant be reused once the skill queue is complete."
"woot.i can put skills this evening that finish tomorrow when i get back frm work!+++"
"thank heavens, now we just need to get priority for this over nonsense like walking around stations."
"like 99% of other players, i have no idea why a limited queue wasn't implemented 3 years ago.this issue has been beaten to death, hammered into the ground, and driven halfway to the core.it is, in fact, the single most-annoying aspect of eve, and has driven away friends of mine from the game, it's so aggrevating.lack of queue does not encourage playing eve. it encourages cancellations of subscriptions. i myself ought to know--i spent almost a year tweaking skills for 10 seconds and then playing things i enjoyed more, or just going to work. in the meantime, ccp enjoyed my dollars, and didn't have to put up with my server load. if this is the goal, then bravo. crappy design, happy marketing department. except, of course, for those 6 months i couldn't be arsed to do it anymore, and killed rebilling.i am not alone in this.now i'm trying to enjoy eve again  and succeeding more, thanks , but yeah i've got about five skills hanging between 6 hours and 1 hour remaining, waiting for me play long enough to finish them off before i can move on to the ship i want to fly. meanwhile, yet another 5-day skill is ticking down while i'm away at work, or with my family, or whatever. and when i come back to the game, i'll be no closer to stealth bomber than when i left.broken. but then, you know that.2-skill queue. limit the first skill to less than 2 days time. train them sequentially, or train them in parallel. it doesn't matter that much. but hades! do something--finally!--krum"
"when i first heard the idea i hated it having read the forums, i like it.i like the idea of the dual queue, it allows you to train 2 for a short duration say 8 hrs.  work, college, sleep etc  however it also gives you the flexibility to set 2 skills that require 9 days each, allowing you to go on vacation. by the time you get back both skills are down to a more manageable 2 days."
"skill queue please, some people have to work and sleep."
"you know there is damn simple and good compromise to this:no skill quebutlet the same skill continue training until it reaches lvl 5, at which point all training stops and the pilot must manually activate training up a new skill.for example: i start training up cruisers: it trains up 1, 2 , 3 ,4, 5. then stops.this way you dont waste time if you cant log on to switch skills, but at the same time you have to login to switch between skills."
"i'm thinking of the \"train next level\" 1 stage thing.forexample, if i start training cruiser3 it does cruiser4 too when its done with the previous but won't do cruiser 5. - it should auto start training the next level of the skill once without me doing anything."
"it doesn't need to be any complex system. people's frustration seems to be around the sp they would lose by not logging in to change skills immediatly their last skill completed.this could be resolved by simply allowing a limited amount of skill points to accrue while no skill is training, say 4 hours worth. when the person logs in and changes skills, those points would be immediately applied to that skill and it carries on as normal. this would allow it to be easily adjusted for balance by altering the length of time they accrue for, or the rate they accrue at. it also leaves room for skills to modify it if needed in future."
"the need for some kind of queue is so obvious, one has to wonder about ccp's continuing reluctance to actually address the issue.i support some sane limitations  2 skills, or unlimited skills within a 100-hour maximum, etc.  but the argument about character farmers is pretty lame. far more often is a pop-up in the middle of a mission or a murtherin' great battle or something, distracting the player from *play*, which should be the goal of the programmers....vs"
"no kidding.i could not possibly care less about ambulation."
"why didn't eve get this feature in its very first patch?it seems obvious...."
"yes, punish the people who actually have a life.a short skill queue is a good thing."
"sp/h depends on the primary and secondary attribute. the new skill must have the same primary and secondary attribute. otherwise one would be able to accrue sp with his highest attributes  say int/mem  and use them in a section with his lowest attributes  say per/wil .i quote myself from another thread:but i guess, training two skills at one time with 1/2 speed will be more easy to implement."
"yes and while this logic is true, allowing an unlimited que length would allow them to purchase such farm character account. then set the que, and not pay for it again until its ready to be sold. this is not a profitable scenerio for ccp, and it still uses there equipment. we should all know that personally non of us are willing to work for free for extended periods of time. current game mechanics allow farmers to purchase accounts and train skills, they are forced however to continue paying for those accounts and using those accounts. there are loopholes where you can setup your skills so that on the ending day of the month of your sub term you can set a long skill and in reality get free training out of ccp. repurchase your sub as your skill is finishing. does all this mean ccp should stop the process of training if your subscription is cancelled?? i dont persaonally think so, i think the use vs. reward for ccp as is more than ok. i beleive a skill que is a must needed asset to the game. it would draw alot more player base of the target audiance that ccp is geared towards. 20-50 ish range i assume since our current player base is of averge age of like 27-35 or something like that.lets cap it to a set number say 5. for this example those 5 skills cant be totalling more than 168 hours of training notice hours trainable equals a full 7 days . those same 5 skills also can be a single skill trained multiple levels in sucession i.e. gunnery 1,2,3,4,5 . since gunnery is only a 1 time modifier, it would not break the hour limitation, and thus allow 5 skills to be qued together. this system, not only stops the character farmer from not paying for an account. it also soves the player bases request for the annoying ~6 hour skills.now to finally reply to the quoted poster. since you say you dont buy into the whole character farmer argument, are you a character farmer?"
"as a new player i also find the lack of a queue incredibly frustrating. i am training up low level skills that only take 1-4 hours, so i have to spend my whole weekend constantly logging in to change skills or train up a higher level skill that i don't really need right now. i can't get any meaningful training done during the week because i work for a living. as others have suggested, the lack of a queue does not encourage me to play, it encourages me to spend hours looking at evemon to make sure all my skills end at times when i am reasonably assured of being able to log in and switch them. one would think with the number of people logging in, changing skills, then logging back out ccp would want a skill queue to relieve some of the demands on the server. as for character farming, something tells me if people can spend all day farming for gold on wow they can spend all day logging in and changing skills."
"how about a skill que with a time restriction? say one that won't allow you to que skills that come to more than 12 or 24 hours at a time. most people just want something to get them past the times when they're sleeping and working. this way they could and ccp would still be assured that people were logging in at least once a day.by limiting time instead of the number of skills in the que you could get rid of a bunch of short little skills without having to stay logged or continuously log on and off.best regards,windjammer"
"the queue need only be 2 deep: current  short  skill and next  long  skill.the dual training would achieve the same effect, but would likely be more complicated."
"why do people keep thinking this is a good idea? whether it's every couple hours, every day, or every few days... logging into the game long enough to set new skills isn't \"playing the game\".making a queue to clear out small skills might be useful to some, but it would ignore the larger skills. and then those folks who want a queue for their spring break are stuck trying to find wi-fi from wherever.some other folks have talked about setting chains rather than just queues. where you can say \"i want to fly a covert ops effectively. tell me when.\" and then the game will auto-train frigates, covops, electronics, cloaks... and suddenly you can fly the ship.this is a bad idea. and everyone knows it. if that were possible, people would buy the books, and set a character for titan v. then they'd come back in a year, and sell the character on ebay.once again, i'm completely in favor of current skill + queued skill. if they happen to be two lvl v, and you're set for weeks, so be it. at least i'm not looking for a connection on the beach."
"awaiting word on medium and heavy mining drones as well now. hoping for a hulk alternative that focuses on drone mining. better than hulk with t1 strips, but less than hulk with t2 crystals. a better omni miner. rigs help with drone ore yield but ganglinks help with strip miner yield so hulk is still far better in a gang."
"hmmmmm...implants are tied to skills and there are not very many skills that affect drone use...the chocolate covered thump of inaction says ...?yes that is right.add more skills and make drones less of a 'gimme' while expanding their role and depth while also allowing for differant types of drone ships and the addition of drone implants.golly chocolate covered thumb, where have you been all this time?!thats not chocolate is it..."
"not much to say here other than just spam a support post."
"weird, almost like it's war or something. go figure.if we pretend this is actually an issue in the first place, which it isn't  remember that thing about not logging into hello kitty online? , war dec cost should be looked at before any radical changes to the system itself. as an extension of reevluating cost, perhaps something like cost goes up based on the ratio of members of the corps involved could work; e.g. if the two corps have equal members  or the agressor has fewer , the cost is of x, where if the agressing corp has a ratio of 2:1 the cost is 2x.knock it off with the carebear hand-holding, ccp, eve hasn't come this far because you've been doing it wrong all this time."
"all of the ccp representatives on this issue have very valid points. the current system does essentially create a pay-for-grief opportunity, limited only by the income of the corp in question. furthermore it does deter \"younger\" players from leaving the npc corps. heck, it's the whole reason you see macro farmers in npc corps--since if they were out there stripmining belts 23/7 in a player corp, they'd eat so many wardecs, their logistics chain would vanish instantly.which is, in fact, exactly the intention of the system.i don't know if there's a fair way to force farmers out of npc corps and into vulnerable corps  special npc ones, or player corps --or not. as for addressing the concerns of matt  ccp , you can provide the option for more limited-scope wars  to an empire, region, constellation, or a system, theoretically , to perform those attacks on logistics-chains, and at the same time rebalance costs for corps with high sp-totals that attack others with comparatively low sp-totals. sp-totals here are a proxy for player-experience and net-worth, since calculating either of these on the fly would be very difficult to impossible. if you can come up with a structured approach to objectives in wars, then that would be great to see presented to the playerbase for discussion. it's a bit complex to get into detail on in this thread... the mind swims with what would have to be covered. however, for such a system you would need to include some capability for the defender to defeat the war, rather than just preventing victory and letting a war time out. in other words, conditions under which it ends early.keep in mind here that wardec are a limited excuse under concord oversight for corporations to \"break the rules\". they are not unlimited war as you get in 0.0, and should represent the interests of the empires in policing violence, while permitting extra-legal justice.--krum"
"an end purpose for the war: victory conditions = yes please +++when declaring a war we should have a select box with options:1. isk demand: we want this amount of isk: x mil.corp wallet transfer solves it2. isk loss inflicted: we want them to lose: x mil.kill mail isk like estimates3. corporation disbandno players left in the corp: member count 04. drop in player base: x%e.g. 80%. corp attacked has 100 members, 80 leave, achieved.[this can be abused easy, i think it would be cool , but i have no idea how to not abuse it] you guys are smart, figure it out5. evacuate area: check x days for players using agets in the area || having officeslocator like system. need x days to check if they are there. this needs someone smarter to figure out how to work properlynote: victory canditions can be made public: by a check box. when public the enemy can see them.when not public only the war deccing corp can see them."
"i think that the problem presented by wrangler will remain  griefing the smaller corp by the big boys .1. give us 1000 bil isk. the war will continue for ever, and the problem will remain.2. we want them to lose: 1000 bil isk. the war will continue for ever, and the problem will remain.and this two are enough for the present system to continue, and nothing will change.3. corporation disbandno players left in the corp: member count 0as i understand the idea is to encourage the formation of smaller corp without the fear or being disbanded because of a war dec from a bigger and bored corp."
"the involvement of mercs in a war could take the form of an \"attachment\" system, an temporary alliance where you attach another corp for a limited time, and that corp becomes involved in your wars.this allows for a quicker response to a griefing wardec than getting a merc corp to wardec the aggressor."
"most \"griefers\" i know are significantly smaller than their targets. that way they are more likely to find people to fight."
"lets stay away from the farmer issue on this one... cause we all know they will end up corp hopping in player corps... have fun wardecing 3948732y7y corp, 27238yf corp and 2083yu8r corp that are being made whenever they need to hope.. but yeah, the merc contracts.... that would be helpful.... although they need to be instant... the 48 hours to get into a fight could means = dead client pos in highsecmakes us able to do our jobs, you know?"
"hopefully the wardec will follow the characters in the corp for the rest of the week to stop the lame corphopping too."
"actually i really like the \"command bunkers\" idea, although not necessarily in that form.something that when a war dec is declared the defenders can do which ends the war dec and means the attackers cannot declare them again for x time  say 3 months . yes the attackers can disband and reform their corp or switch corp or whatever but then you just complete the objective again and soon enough they will stop.that objective can be selected by the attackers upon declaring the war and then from there it is fixed.for example:attackers declare one of their high or low sec pos as a 'command bunker' - any pos they like. could even be an anchorable pos module. destroy the pos, end the war.attackers declare a 'ransom' to be paid by the victim which cannot be set to more than 10mill*number of people in corp at time of war dec. the ransom if paid goes to the attackers and the war ends.the attackers declare that they will get x kills per day  number being something like number of people in target corp / 10 - no rounding so if 3 peolpe in corp you need one kill every 3 days etc.but to reiterate the attackers choose one of these options at the time they start the war. for example a ransom corp would choose option 2 - which would automatically handle the ransom. a griefer corp vs a bigger alliance might chose option 3 - whereas one vs a corp similar in size might chose option 1.but in the case of option one the defenders can hire mercs to help take out the pos.or whatever.so to re-iterate - no victory conditions for the attackers as presumably they had one in mind when they war decced.  well maybe the ransom one is a victory condition for them  but when the attackers declare war they have to give one for the defenders."
"this is eve. not hello-kitty-online. players can group and organise in safety - inside the stations. once you undock you're out in the wide world.anhkwhateverhernameis needs to get over that fact.eph."
"it would be nice to have something between the few million isk itty v and the billion isk freighter.i want to haul more than an itty v can hold, but not that much more."
"this is good : "
"also important thing is moon mining in empire, because few towers produce near 100k m3, so i need freighter to catty out. but it dangerous. and jumpfreighter is more safety, but cost too much. so middle size industrial what cost 300-400 mil, can carry 200-300k m3, and have agility better then freighter is real cool. but this ship must have enough hp for safe from one-2 bsh, not like industrial..."
"this. 2-4 cans of capacity, and the ability to fit modules. nothing fancy. just an iteron or badger with a bigger hold. call the class \"hauler\""
"it looks to me like there are 2 ships that people want, a mini-rorq that can't compress and just hauler between the huge and hugely expensive fighters and a regular indy, maybe another type of t2 indy that instead of the \"blockade runner\" aspect, just has a bigger hold?personally i would like to see both, a larger indy would be good for fueling/ setting up posses and such and a mini-rorq that can use ether the capital tractor or has a bonus to the regular tractor would be very useful for hauling to a rorq at a pos."
"thirded. really, not everyone who would haul has 2 billion  1 for ship, 1 for cargo  laying around to invest in a single entity. there's an awefully long way between an industrial and a freighter....--krum"
"for me this ship is not a responce to freighter ganking or any other downfall of freighters other than the skill and isk cost of them.the one overriding factor of my support for this ship is the need for it to be easially accessable to small corps who otherwise wouldnt be able to devote the resources needed to get a capital class hauler.therfore nothing fancy, no jump drives, no ewar poncyness and certainly not t2, just a big ass t1 hauler to move stuff between stations and possably poses.i'm not too sure about allowing it to scoop cans though, if you do allow it to, who in their right mind is ever going to fly the \"old-style\" haulers anymore?i would prefer this to be a huge industrial ship rather than a smaller freighter, if only to avoid the freighter skill, the equivilant of battleship size and probably just a bit over battleship cost as well seems about right.120,000m3 is the size of the largest courier contract you can make so i see a target for this ship, i also like the symetry of a 200mil isk pricetag.as for whether you go for 4 racials or a single flavour \"mining barge style\" doesnt matter too much.anyway bring it on so i can retire my aging mastodon."
"the easiet way to counter that is to make it skill intensive. who in there right mind flies a badger 1, etc? people who don't have the skills to fly anything better... there are always plenty of low skill point players who will be a market for existing ships."
"/sign"
"people who have less to move and will use a cheaper ship to do it?"
"i like isazmodeus suggestion."
"eh, but i would like to have a smaller ship that can carry a battleship or two, and costs less than a freighter, going 50mil for a transport to 900mil for a freighter is a bit of a big step"
"my thoughts exactly"
"150k to 300k in cargo space  skills and mod dependant no rig slots3 lows  two wcs, and a cargo expander gets you at least three battleships 2 mids  for moderate tanking 1 high slot for a single tractor with a bonus to range  eliminate it from the salvage role alignment slightly higher than itty vwarp speed same as itty vhalfway resists armor/shield between itty v and blockade runnersno drone baymild bonuses to mining gang and skill dependantinvented off the top haulers prints, and requires some capital parts and t2 components. build cost should try to fall in line around the 280 to 500mil mark."
"yay!!when will it get in-game?when?when?soon or eventually?better be now!*sugarrush* that is no sugar... "
"qft i would allow the rigs to be built seperately and then only installed by building them into the ship during construction. that way these new rigs could be traded and sold outside of the actual build job.also as a purely radical change. you could have base hull values for each race that allowed certain bonuses. disclaimer/ all numbers are pdooma /disclaimersay a caldari bs hull could give any 2 or 3 or insert your number here  of the caldari bs bonuses at so the scorp ecm or raven torp/cruise bonuses. after that is decided you select a number of engine components, armor plates, shield emitters, drone bay size etc. now the racial hull type will limit maximum values or establish the penalties for increases. the idea here is to either limit caldari hulls to a total maximum armor amount or to make an amarr ship have a 10% speed reduction for some amount of armor plate and a caldari ship a 25% penatly for the same amount of armor. you would even have to add the turret and missile hardpoints and at the end have your own custom bpo. that would be an awesome reward for a r&d agent."
"no no norisk of low sec or 0.0 is why people do not leave empire. if they want to risk for higher reward the option is there, they choose not to risk. with out the safety of an alliance already established in 0.0 there is little option other than ninja runs in and out of 0.0 for many."
"i will agree with this.i also like anhk's idea of making the reward for a pathway in specializing to be something already existing like a rig. as was previously brought up there is room for 8 rigs in the ship configuration menu. depending on the skill and dedication of a manufacturer they could have 1 or 2 rigs go into the production. on the wpa industrial i kicked around an idea for having a manufacturer pick a faction they wished to specialize production in. while we talked about the issue it was brought up there should also be a way to back out of one specialization and train another  like maybe a fee and a waiting period? . say i want to specialize in amarr items. most amarr ships have cap issues. perhaps a rig for cap or for making the lasers use less cap, but something that is already established with in the item database.maybe a production of large beams ends up with 1 or 2 t2 large beams of that type along with the rest of the production batch  run 100 units, 98 regular & 2 t2  the options are really out there is just a matter of looking : "
"science is already one of the most heavily skill intensive areas of the game, with really relatively direct game influence, why would we want to add more skills and more complexity to it?personally i think this is a bad idea.the idea of more customizable blueprints i like, the integral rig idea where you can swap them out is good. new skills to allow that would be fine.i'm leery of the idea of allowing more t2 bpos especially in any random system as the previous lottery was shown to have been manipulated from time to time."
"1  cool2  agreed3  why not4  supported5  i loled. \"it's unrealistic\"? hope you can deliver better arguments than that. if these components could be gathered in high sec  maybe something to make high sec exploration fancy again  i'm in. if it's intended to take the t2 barrier on to t1 and force carebears to low sec to gather the stuff ... jump from a bridge 6  variable outcome, yes. like runs/me/pe? t2 bpo render the whole invention thing obsolete, do they not? the problem is, that there are allready t2 bpo in eve! so, i'd say yes!7  epic wrangler, just epic!so, yes. we are in fact aliens. you couldn't have phrased that any better wrangler. simple question:do you want the eve community to grow? do you want to earn more isk? then i strongly advice that ccp starts to see the $$$ behind us carebears, and therefore generate pve content immediately! and try to avoid such formulations. at least except we hear something similar for the other \"percentage of players\". ask the csm how these players should be approached and if there should be allocated less resources in order to allocate more resources for that other percentage of players ... *thumbs down*"
"good way of working around the issue. you could produce a \"stripped\" ship without bonuses  or with fewer  and give it extra \"tweak\" slots  up to 5 for tech1, 6 for tech2 , using those remaining rig slots in the fitting screen. very elegent. build these manufacturing \"tweaks\" out of meta-components rather than rig parts, and have these stripped ships come with very high calibration. you would need to need to modify the manufacturing screen to accomodate \"design calibration\", or perhaps introduce the customization step as invention.this could also be used during manufacturing of meta-modules. if you do this, you will need to add more manufacturing slots. you could mesh it with tweaked ships  see above  and meta-module manufacturing, however.no. no bpos. do bpcs for meta-items  also possible via invention , meta-tech2 items, and the like. if you want more special items, add them: currently you only have at most 4  non-faction  variations of a basic tech 1, meta 0 item--add a few more, with variation to different attributes/effects.stay far, far away from bpos. if you really want to reward people, hand out longer-run bpcs--and even let them research better efficiency on them--but no more bpos.first, we suggest you be less patronizing. we like your sandbox too, but are generally more risk-adverse because we have less time to put in to recover lost isk from meeting violent natives. that said, here are some limited suggestions that either address the risk, or provide something interesting:* do more with exploration. seed highsec with more exploration sites, that escalate rewardingly into lowsec. make a player in an exploration/mission deadspace at least as hard to probe out as it was to find the site to begin with. there are many other ideas you have suggested in your to-do list for exploration--implement them.* smarter npcs. redesign your npcs using eve fitting tool. give them some state-based ai so they react less stupidly. possibly hire the indi-game guy who did armageddon empires to help you. rebalance rewards for their harder state. structure mission encounters so it's possible to use more tactics  hit-and-run, jamming, etc... look at pvp . seed these new npcs in new missions and new exploration sites... with warnings to players, story elements, and the like. so yeah, content. and if you balance things, they'll leave highsec... just try not to be too patronzing about it.--krum"
"everyone seems to be hating the option of t2 bpos. but the fact remains that if you don't \"fix\" existing bpos, then there exists a grave imbalance to anything you try to do for bpcs.i, for one, believe that the only real solution is to allow the introduction of new bpos. whether through a chance-based system of creating new bpos through invention, or perhaps through the lp store. any other \"fix\" to existing bpos would be unfair to current owners of t2 bpos. as unfair as this is to new players  or is it? , it better levels the playing field between existing bpo owners and the not-so-fortunate characters stuck with bpcs than invention ever could.there's no real way to tell the difference between someone who's worked for months to buy a bpo  screw them over by turning bpos to \"high-run\" bpcs  versus someone who has held onto their bpo for months as an isk printing device."
"the comment from ccp below is a big deal and it needs to be fronted so that others can see it.this issue needs to be split off from the industry discussion: ccp noted that a large percentage of players never leaves high-sec, and wants to know from the csm how these players should be approached and if they should allocate more resources to create content for this type of player.before we get into all the little details of invention, industry, missions, exploration, ect we need to discuss the big issue of the high-sec player. thats the core issue here.were not all the same and each have our own ideas of what wed like to see added but that belongs in the features and ideas forum. what we need to get across to ccp however is that many of us will never get into the low-sec game and why. then we can hope to have our ideas heard.for me personally, i enjoy the social aspects of multiplayer games and cooperative game play, but have no interest in any sort of hardcore playing style where i have to watch my back all the time.although i have plenty of friends, im not team sports kind of guy. a buddy or two getting together for a common goal is one cool, but i have no interest in the alliance / corp power struggles. im not going to play any game that simply allows me to be harassed for the enjoyment of others. luckily ccp allows us to be relatively safe and thats where ill stay. its ridiculous that i play in a game where i have to post my opinions with an alt to avoid in-game harassment!i enjoy goals, challenges, competition  there must be an option for this that does not include random, unregulated pvp.im increasingly frustrated that all the best content is in low-sec only and that in order to enjoy it i need to play with personality types that i try to avoid."
"one more comment while im at it:at least one a day i hear how eve is strived to be realistic and a sandbox and the risk=reward thing.risk does sometimes equal reward in real life, but isnt an investment a risk? wouldnt pve be a risk if it werent so darn easy? im sick of the notion that high-sec dwellers are risk averse just because we dont fight them.also isnt it even more true that hard work = reward?what about that dynamic. i want ccp to get rid of the progress ceiling limitations on the working class of eve and let us accomplish it all our way."
"the ability to end up with a t2 bpo from invention should've been in from day 1 imo."
"change the cloaking mechanics a bit so that bombs can be fired while bieng cloaked. when the bomb is fired the ship firring the bomb will be visible for a short time span \"shorter then decloaking and cloaking again\" - like a fade time that would enable like intercepters and other fast locking ships to slock the bomber while big ships would still be unavalible.changing the cloaking mechanics to a fade time or the like would also mean that bombers would most likely only use passive module boosters.problem with stealth bombers was always that they wore designed to lock and fire at a target wile they wore cloaked. so if you want to fix them and there issues you should look into bringing the stealth back into the bomber.i know this gave a record number of problems when bombers wore first introduced but you should still take a look at this option - as the are still paper thin and easy to kill.maybe only allow bombs to be fired with a fade timer and leave the cruise missiles like they have \"always\" been.and maybe consider some kind of mechanics where the bomber can only carry the bomb it have got loaded already and then implement some kind of support mechanics for the stealth bombers for reloading the bomb launcher so it physically requires more people to manage this ships team work ect. so that the ship doesnt become a solo pwner."
"bombs are pretty expensive.rather than changing how the bomb launcher/bombs work we might need a new platform to use them from.say a stealth heavy bomber, maybe a tier 2 or 3 covert ops ship.it would have perhaps bonuses to bomb range, bomb damage, or bomb area dependent on race.perhaps even the ability to fit a covert ops cloak, making the shorter range of bombs still useful if you can sneak close enough."
"aoe weapons are an abortion  bombs , largely unsupported  smartbombs  or a must have  oblivion dd . great balance, would use again a++++++++++++"
"i like this - another t2 ship type designed around bombs, able to warp cloaked, deploying bomb 'blinks' the cloak, allowing fast lockers a chance. due to their potential, if the delivery platform is sorted out, the current price tag seems ok."
"for me the two biggest issues are:* the sec hit* the having to stay uncloaked until detonationtwo simple solutions -sec hit- reduce the hit in 0.4 or lessstaying uncloaked - what is the point in having trained cloaking to have a 5 sec turn around time if the primary function of the ship negates this? - add fire and forget to it, if you've fired one of these things then you've just committed millions of isk to a single strike - at least let it go off and allow the firer to be alive to see it - blobs are a pain in the neck and it'd be nice to have a decent retalliation other than the \"lets go and get a bigger blob\" approach to removing them... *cough bob maximum damage"
"actualy, this cannot work.i explain why :when you warp on a blob : you have a random 1 to 10 minutes freeze to charge the grid acording to the number of ships in the grid.if you are not cloaked the blob have enought time to pod you even if 10 bombers warp in together.if ccp realy want bombers become an anti blob ship, it have to be able to stay cloaked the time for client to charge the grid.i see only one solution for this : make sb able to use covert op cloaking device.however, there is a problem.covert ops will become useless and bombers overpowered.good luck to balance team to solve this._______________idea : change the bomb launcher and give the following ability : activation of a bomb launcher module cloack the ship for 1 warp.by activating the launcher, the ammo  bomb  is used and cannot be recovered by any way.the offensive effect of the bomb is released as soon as the launcher  and cloak  is switch off.restrictions : - bombs are expensive in isk and cargo, this is ok.- you have to be aware you have enought cap for the warp you are about to do to the blob. if not, you'll lost you ammo in the void.- using a covert op as scout to ensure you warp in the good place will give you more chance to survive : warping to 0km will uncloak you then release the bomb. this would introduce <U+FFFD> new tactic : the kamikaze ship but if you are poded before the bomb explode pilote will be killpoded by his own bomb making this tactic quitte dangerous.problem 1 : this can give a paying cov op abbility to sb for example you could : 1 activate module, 2 get a cloaked warp, 3 then jump to a gate or lof off.solution 1 : if the launcher is not released, the charge explode in the ship doing full damage to the ship.problem 2 : can it be implemented : this change the use of module. up to now, modules have only one effect : activate, disactivate.this idea introduce 2 effects for one module, and both have to be player controled.solution 2 : for devs.there is problably other things to say.feel free."
"well, as is being noted here - the greater blob will always hold the advantage because they get to load incoming ships individually rather than all at once like the incoming fleet does. thus, what needs to be done is that when warping to large engagements, one shouldn't come out of warp until the full landing grid has already been loaded."
"i am a feverent nemesis pilot. i love the look, feel and everything about the ship. when i heard about bombs i literally squealed in delight. then the bombs came out and i realised i'll probably never get to use them1  too expensive2  too weak.3  must be shot out from a ship being used in a way that involves it getting close to the enemy.i agree with any changes being done though i think the most important thing to change would be their cost. they just cost far far too much."
"-decrease the size of bombs or increase the size of stealth bomber cargoholds.-the current price doesn't seem too far out of line considering what bombs should be able to do.-increase the area of effect a bit.-leave the damage as is for now.-get bombs to"
"^^ thisregarding auditors there is much they can do with api to substantiate the claim of someone starting an ipo except tell the difference between a bpo and bpc - anyway that could get fixed ccp?no mater what the auditor's findings its only on what has been done up to that point, no assurance the person requesting venture capital will actually do as they say...."
"why should the stock market be any different than the rest of the game?i mean alts are used by everyone to avoid involving their corps/alliances. they are used to post with, haul goods to empire, sell items and buy items. i fail to see how they would be any more detrimental to the stock market."
"exactly. creating a secure way to sell and buyback shares would be step 1.we already have auditing in the form of the api  increase the amount of information from the full api though . from there everything would already fall into place, and design mechanics issues would become readily apparent.when we the players say we want a stock market. we are not asking for an entire new ui overhaul, new windows, major additions. we are asking for a secure and easy way to transfer shares between players. make shares contractible... the market will create itself."
"should a corp decide to go public.create two types of stock. voteing and non-voteing stock.stock valuation:for non voting stock.1. the full value of the master wallet & a corp set percentage of each other corp wallet division.  set between 2% and 10%  the master wallet cannot be less than 20% of the total of all isk in the corp. should it fall below that it auto drafts from the other wallet divisions eqauly to bring it's self back to 20%.2. non-voting stock can be sold and traded freely between players.3. non voting sock can be sold back to the original corp. at current value  based on valuation #1  this will create a stock that fluctuates in value which is a good thing for investors/ speculators based upon the strength/ health of the corp issuing the stock  it also does not kill corp management by having voting stock out there in the hands of the masses.voting stock:1. can only be issued by the ceo2. is valued at the full value of the all wallet divisions divided by the amount of stock issued including the non-voting stock 3. the ceo through the corperation can at any time buy the stock back at full value.this creates ownership in a corp for corp members / directors. it still allows the corp to get rid of a \"problem member\" by buying thier voting stock back.i would like to see some way of tagging corp assets, for instance if the corp buys a moros then that moros is tagged as a corp asset and cannot be sold or contracted out of the corp, except by successfull vote. regardless of who currently has possetion of it. the asset would also contribute value to the corp stock.any one coming into possetion of said asset would be notified that it belongs to xyz corp, that xyz corp has been notified of its whereabouts, and that thier use of it constitutes \"agro\" and that they can be fired upon without concord intervention. this would curb a lot of corp theft or at least give the injured corp some recourse.  more pvp!  just a few suggestionstribe"
"this!accountability and trust are issues that extend fair beyond the scope of just the stock market.no attempt to address those issues would be effective if approached only with the intent of creating a foundation for the stock market, as it must address all aspects and styles of game play for it to effectively protect those investing into the stock market.all that we are asking for is the means to contract/trade shares securely."
"allow people to destory station services rather then just disabling them.disabling a service would be the first step in a process to destory it, a second step might/should include some minigame or somthing basically somthing that wasnt based on firepower but some other form of skill where the people holding the station wore still able to counter the actual atempt. once the technical disabling step have been completed the station service should like undergo something similar to a reinforced timer maybe and after that the service could be \"dismantled completely\" firepower.once all services are destroyed the station would be fully inactive the only thing you would be able to do was to undock from it and leave it in space \"maybe change the station gfx at this point\" similar to when the evil gallente flew a nyx into a caldari station.outposts should be reparable with a process similar to that of upgrading the outpost - thus spending all this time disabling and destroying the services would actually impact on the holders of the outpost.assets in the station would be all but intact but they would be inaccessible. i know this is kind of a compromise but what you should remember is that the game mechanics for this are mostly already in place.you can lock and disable a station service - just need to make the station service unlockable when it have been \"destoryed\"the upgrade system is already in place and the features and mechanics of this system can thus be used to implement the repair process of a stationwhat needs to be implemented is a way to prevent people of lets say using a item in a disabled station.i can only find a record few places where it would actually make sence but still.bpo research, copy, factory would all be posible at a pos with in the same solar system as the outpost was located even though it was disabled.scammers would have a field day selling items that wore available in a disabled station that go go both for escrow and the general marked."
"we have a war dec system that has no victory conditions, entire ship classes that are broken and useless and you want destructible outposts?"
"1. total destruction: ---2. boom boom and pillaging: +++"
"being able to pop outposts will stop alliances building them what would be the point in having a major asset poping when a pos does allmost the same thing"
"on my mind, outpost should be destroyable  some but not all asset in the outpost can even be destroyed or simply dammaged .but wreck should not  as titan's are actualy .moreover it should be possible to repair an outpost wreck : by using components required for the egg, an outpost should be recontructed back.off course you'll need sovereignty as if you build a new outpost but cheaper."
"outpost destruction is out of the question you rent offices out to corps and entire corps have there assets in there or there must be a way that all assets are transfered to empire to a npc station , because i tought that ccp goal whas to get more people in 0.0 not to get a 0.0 dessert where there are no people left or just 1 big alliance rampaging 0.0 as soon a alliance try to get an outpost in a 0.0 system destructible outposts is the end of 0.0 and the end of eve jita is bad but whatto think if you in empire with 20.000 people in that heap"
"as said greeny knight, if ever outpost become destroyable, the asset inside would not be destroyed, pillaged, otherway you can be sure :0.0 will be much more less tasty for playerwill make lot of player leaving the game  i dont think ccp would be ok... btw it's true that doing a 'derelict' mode where no service are available and should be re-build  a major task which cost money and need to bring lot of stuff to repair services by services would be cool "
"no matter what the disconnect is on ccp's end, it has to get resolved. this can't go on. changing ammo is the most frustratingly bad situation. sounds to me from wrangler's minutes that the transactions between modules and the database need to be rethought somewhat."
"just stagger it, rather than making it simultaneous. when you get used to doing it you can do eight guns in just a few seconds, so whatever load that causes is already present. how fast the ammo changes isn't necessarily the issue, it's the effort involved, so an option that loads the guns over the course of a few seconds would do."
"hmm if it causes to much server lag i think we can do without it."
"it has always been that way. it's just an opportunity to handle it better on the server side. why is it creating so much load in the first place should be the question."
"one click is what we want most, not all at once ad literam.so make it one click, but switch the ammo in loop."
"last night i had this dream where i did a close reading of this issue and in this dream it was revealed to me that there was a fearful symmetry to ccp's logic of ammo switching and another, deeply hidden feature: the much requested skill que.let me elaborate.if ccp fears that a skill que is unnecessary or detrimental, we can re-articulate this position as follows: ccp discriminates against features that streamline or enhance mundane tasks because ease of use doesn't encourage players from playing while the opposite is in fact true. thus if a feature enhances playibility, and if a reload all is a feature that enhances playability, then the only logical conclusion is that we must avoid this feature because in reality it could mean that the fans play less, not more. qed."
"please!hell even something to fix 50% of my crystals from not loading..... watching gun 1 load, and then gun 2 load oh and when gun 2 loaded it stole the crystal from gun 1, and then gun 3 loads, then gun 4 loads stealing the crystal from gun 3....it sucks"
"you don't just use the current formula and then x 8, you'd pick from the possible damage range using a vitual dice eg 10% chance of doing 50%, 10%75%, 20% for 90%, 20% for 100%, 10% for 105%, 20% 110%, 10% 120%, the allow the client computer work out which shots were scratches wreakings etc.it'd save tons of work for the server, but you'd never get 8 wreakings : "
"little fix, probabilities will bite you in the ass sometimes."
"how much of a difference would it be to have one player-issued action to reload all turrets with another type of mission compared to the \"reload all\" feature compared to eight player-issued actions to change or reload ammo on all  max 8  turrets one by one?items are moved around in either case. maybe trying to improve the way it is done  code-wise  would help and it would be less of a concern for all the cases above.the only after-taste i can imagine are amarr drooling all over the place."
"lulz at ccp for beleiving there fears are not already true... any good fc should already be commanding fleets to reload on command, and the frustration on the server is accumulated by the some 250+ pilots in battle to switch 8 guns manually. would the server better handle the process of one command 250+ times or 16 commands times 250+? and seriouselly why would you ignore your paying customers with a function they have been asking for for almost 5 years? just to ****y to beleive they wont leave you for something better?im personally on the side that ccp is really unwilling to admit and fix there ruff-neck coding 10 years ago, with a language that has changed, and evolved into a much better system than it was."
"lag is going to be generated. period. actually the only part that will create lag is in the hard drives or ram of the servers. reason that this is not an issue is being that the storage medias are gonna store the change. so why does it matter if it happens now or 1 time in the 10 to 15 seconds it's going to take. also, everyone's rof is different. the lag is going to be staggered this way anyhow. plus the reload time is different as well for each gun. actually, if nothing else with some packet optimization, you can actually improve the lag problem. to summarize, i don't see the problem in implementing the high's ammo charges in a single command. you can actually generate less lag where lag is going to happen."
"sugestion: allow turrets to be loaded with multiple types of ammo at once, and let people change which is firing all at once.so for example, my neutron blasters would be loaded 50% null and 50% gallente navy antimatter. and i could choose which one fired with a quick toggle."
"that about sums it up.perhaps in their review of adding this feature they might be able to find away to optimize the process so that it is less taxing on the server as a whole, by processing all of the changes together on the server side as well as on the client side.anyways, i expect that people will switch ammo types just as often. the main difference will be how fustrating it is to do so."
"sorry i misexplained things - i'll try again.rough approximation of the current system:server works out % chance if the shot hits or misses, server rolls to see if the shot hits, if it hits there's a dice roll to work out the hit type  well aimed, wrecking, etc  then it applys the hit type to  turrets damage modifier x ammo damage .now it'd go though this for every shot fired.now lets propose an alternate system:n = number of matching turrets.dam = damage type modifier from  n-1 x poor hits + 1 decent  to  n-1 good hits + 1 wreaking x   percentage to wreck ^n /100 +1  server works out % chance if the shot hits or misses, server rolls to see how what % shots hit then multiplies by dam x ammo.old system 8 calcs, new 1 calc  damage is worked out when each turret is online. dam is worked out whenever a turret is onlined/offlined  ie out of battle . the new system only saves calculations when two or more turrets of the exact same type are used  most people tend to use as many of the same type as possible , but doesn't lose anything other the old system if different turrets are used. there's probobly a few holes in there but a variation of this system could save tons of server work for turrets lanchers and drones especially."
"not that i'm an expert on this, but wouldn't it be a higher load to a server to send multiple commands one at time, i.e. one command per gun, than to issue one command for all the guns?regards,windjammer"
"tornsoul - no offence, but this sounds an awful lot the same as a pos.sure, there are some key differences  slightly cheaper, probably not linked to moons, probably not needing fuel, ceases self-repair after a certain hp count, probably harder to damage compared to current pos - you mention 20 bs and 5 hours, that's something akin to 200-300 mil raw hp  but overall, your proposal isn't significantly different from whatever was actually implemented  e.g. the poses we have nowadays .so, again, no offense, but how is your proposal any different better compared to the current system ?or, for that matter, compared to a generic fw-like activity based sov-granting system like the one i proposed  not necessarily that one, but something similar ."
"the current system is boring because it isn't very sophisticated nor skilled. it is very simple atm. put pos into re-inforced, defender picks time of \"return leg\" battle.it is a grind to refuel pos and a case of bring more numbers  of the right ships  and win.the key is in how you create the new system to avoid it being overly complicated. or rather the detail is the tricky bitthere are two ways you can do it. either you build structures which directly affect certain things rts style. so you build a caldari fuel depot and you get a % bonus on nitrogen isotope used in pos. or you have npc's who have needs like education and healthcare sim city style, and by being good at providing that stuff, you get a higher sov % and thus get general bonuses on the overall %. say you need +75% to online a cyno jammer---think of it like thispos = castlescivilian structures = villagesyou can go round burning all the villages and leave the defenders tucked away in their castles. sure you won't take and control the country but you'll leave a burned wasteland when you leave.or you can just go straight in and seige the castles. harder, but once taken you control the land around and can start making use of it straight away"
"this raises the whole \"planetside\" problem; how long should it take to capture something.say i go on holiday for a week. atm, i can expect that my pos if left unattended will probably be nuked should it come under attack.but say i just have a busy time at work and don't log in for a couple of days, if i've stronted correctly, the pos is at least semi-safe till i get backhow long does it take to capture the flag  or gate or planet or moon ? 30 minutes, 2 days? 1 week? i don't want to have to camp a gate for a week  and lose that cap when the enemy blob up for 30 minutes one time and force us off after 5 days , but neither is it good to wake up or come home from work and find you're deep in enemy held territory, so fast as it is to take a system"
"you might also look into solar system size as a possible element in this new system. currently the only thing that matters is the number of moons and thus small systems are usually 100% covered.but why not turn this the other way around.small alliances with fewer assets avalible might deliberately chose to live in a system that favored there small size. what im thinking is that you might build some features into the new sov system where overwhelming numbers would mean close to nothing im thinking 300 here.people settle into systems where they know that thy will be able to defend them simply cause they know that hostiles will only be able to brig like 10-20-30% more then there numbers to the fight.this would really benefit small scale alliances, and would hopefully mean that you would see a lot more small alliances instead of this massive color blobs on the map."
"i believe the current fw system is a step in the right direction."
"i'm for eliminating fuel requirements for poss other than while reinforced. i mean we live in an advanced space society, surely someone has thought of and used solar power.  within 5 au of a g class star you could generate enough using solar panels, given the level of tech solar panels probably would easily reach 60-80% efficiency in this time line making them a prime source of power, beyond the 5au you could use a system to harness the solar wind much like wind turbines on earth, nearly limitless power so long as the star doesn't die while reinforced they have to use auxillary power systems as their cloaking shield prevents them from utilizing their normal solar power."
"why not simply use something based on the fw system? with the control bunker being built and placed by an alliance. this gives the alliance control of the system, preventing anyone else deploying pos in the system. the control bunker then spawns complexes in the flavor of the bunker  eg, build a gallente bunker and it spawns gallente complexes with npcs loyal to the alliance . when the system is uncontested any pos in the system operate at heavily reduced costs  i figure that if the alliance is controlling the area then local populations  on planets etc  would be taxed, hence the reduced costs . when the system is contested the bonus is halved.if it is possible, perhaps make it so the the bunker spawns npcs to destroy any pos deployments. then anyone attempting to put up a pos would have to remote repair the pos till it was built. make it so that if your determined you can still do it, but you'll be harrassed the entire time by the alliance npc navy.when control of the bunker is gained then the owner has the option to destroy it to free the system of any sovereignty mechanics.pos mechanics otherwise unchanged, meaning that sieges can still be conducted to cause damage, but are not necessary - especially if the alliance/npc navy thing is implemented.i think that would give a real feeling of ownership of a system also making sovereignty a very desirable bonus for any industrial base. this uses existing gameplay elements so it can all be done... : "
"just an idea  i've not had time to read the whole thread .introduce a new module called a \"gravitational field generator\"one script is a 'gravitional disrupter', one is a 'gravitational compensator'the module would need say 1000mw and 200 cpu to fit so most bs can fit it but they are slightly gimped to do so. you can just about fit it on a cruiser but be massively gimped.near every moon you have a number of 'gravitational nexus' spots which are found using exploration-style scanning. the number ranges from 1 to 5 and over time more appear and disappear.but what's the point to all this?you go into a hostile system and find a pos. you scan out the nearby nexuses and you go there with your disrupter.you then turn it on. it has a 1 minute cycle time and acts like a cyno in that you can't move and a beacon appears in the overview so this is quite risky. only one generator can be running at each nexus at a time. the ship would need to ninja into an empty system or be defended while it does this.the nexus would have a stability reading between 1 and 20 - each time a cycle finishes the stability gets worse by one  disruption script  or better by one  compensation script .but what does all this achieve?1. the pos takes damage  not enough to destroy, but enough to weaken . the shields on both the pos and all pos modules get reduced to 50% +  average % stability of all nexuses / 2 .2. the pos fuel bills increase. both fuel and stront consumption gets increased by average stability  to a max of doubled with full instability .so scenario: you are harrassing a bigger alliance. you run a gang through destabalising their pos. this weakens their defences and increases their fuel bills while at the same time encouraging small gang fights away from the pos guns to defend both the destablisers and the stabalisers.scenario: pos seigefirst bring in the destabalisers to drop the shields to 50% that way, then go in for a full out assault - or just do the full out assault in the first place.either way you can't actually take sov without a pos seige but you can effectively harrass the pos/make them harder to maintain without one and you can also soften them up before the seige itself. and all of that is done using small gangs/sub capital ships.just an idea - hope people liked it :  note that the objectives are time based so if you have 200 people you are better splitting into 20 gangs of 10 people each with a generator and going to hit 20 nexus spots at a time than you are just sitting 200 people at one.sure 200 can pile into one system and hit 20 targets there at once but defenders can then harass whichever generator battleship the attackers aren't blobbing at."
"create 3 new structures that contribute to sovereignty in a system: minor facility, facility and major facility. each facility contains a deadspace generator and associated acceleration gate. each sized gate only allows the same sized ships as their faction warfare counterparts. make sure each gate is 100,000km from the facility to prevent the nano entry exploit.that way you give the smaller ships a role in 0.0, and a steady progression for faction warfare players."
"if you need to draw players out of their fortress, introduce a weapon that is so long range that they have to warp all the way over to fight it.a mobile artillery installation that can shoot from anywhere within the same system as it's target.this way an attacker can also create multiple fronts where the battle can take place.if you're at your base defending it from dreadnaughts then someone else will have to go all the way over to the artillery installation, thus splitting your forces.not to mention that warptunnel disruptors can be used inbetween the base and the artillery installation to intercept strike-craft inbetween the two. this will add a lot of strategical and tactical options to pos warfare.it's important however that the artillery installation could only work against buildings, as otherwise it could be used in the pos's defence against artillery installations, thereby negating the desired effect. artillery installation versus artillery installations should be ineffective."
"most of the suggestions i've read regarding make 0.0 warfare more scaled and more responsive to small-gang action just serves to turn 0.0 sov warfare into a glorified game of wack-a-mole. the last thing you should do to this game is create situations where defenders have to run around responding to fast-moving nano gangs or have to mount static defenses. in those scenarios you're creating fun for attackers by making extremely onerous tasks for the defenders. 'weight-of-force'  the presence of force determines the speed of a flag  in this case sov  change  type mechanics end up being the fairest, but the sorts of issues created there become exactly the problem that these sorts of anti-blobbing mechanics are trying to stop. the easiest way to get around the wack-a-mole or standing army issue is allow alliances who have achieved certain sov-levels the ability to build npc defense forces and mount gate guns. all destroyable objects.let the weight of infrastructure available, the number of poses, the number of pos modules, the presence of an outpost, etc, should all allow for more defensive infrastructure to be built. and i mean built. let the alliances have to build and fit their own npc ships for use in systems where they have significant sov levels. as roaming gangs move through these systems there's a definite incentive for player-gangs to form up in defense and keep their npc defense ships from getting blown to hell. it gives roaming gangs something to do that has a tangible impact on your opponent, it ties in industry and infrastructure with pvp operations. it gives people a reason to defend, lest they see several billion in npc ships blow up."
"i disagree. no one would use the npc if they are too weak and will just get blown to hell, and if they are stronger what is stopping a gang from blobing the npc? really i don't see how npcs could serve any purpose in sovereignty mechanics; too expensive for too little value.you can look on the fw stats pages and see that it takes a damn long time to capture a system, even with very dedicated teams of plex cappers. you, as a holder of sovereignty would not have to respond to every threat that comes about, but it does give players a reason to patrol their own space, rather then just dock up to save their ships. i suggested using the constellations as a sovereignty rather then the systems alone. this provides a smaller ground for small groups of defenders to patrol. when the fight becomes \"escalated\" the defenders would only have to defend the flag, that is the number of capable spaces becomes smaller thus forcing a bottleneck and larger fleets now have a role! at some point you want large fleet fights you just don't want them being the beginning, middle and end. there is no need to whack-a-mole since there is no need to destroy every attacking force, so what if they cap a few plexes; the point is to keep that number small by patroling space and keeping the noob gangs from capping everything. plus it encourges the breakup of blobs as having one ship cap a plex vs 100 ships makes no difference in the amount of time. its more effective to break up a 100 man gang in to 10 10 man gangs.one last comment. i see the average take time for a whole constellation being around a week to 2 weeks, the final escalations will take about 2-3 days. this give far more time and pew-pew then the current mechanic. basically almost all the other post here have copied fw. i find that the main reason fw is not small gangs and all blobs is because people have no reason and therefore don't attempt to cap plexes. since the reason behind sov is to keep your space people now have reason to defend it more then just to blow stuff up.i'd like to see some csm delegates or ccp members respond to these ideas. mainly about the viability and fun factor."
"i support both, ombers and angelus' suggestions. but a clear no no no to reserve. i hate that **** on ebaymotors as well. reserve is clearly in favor for the seller. if you setup a low starting bid, you take the risk of selling low while maybe luring more people to your auction cause of the low starter. if so, your profit may exceed the usual market price. it's risk vs. reward. if you want riskfree auction, setup a higher starting bid or use item exchange.contract system is fine with me. i would just like to see more filtering options, as it's really anoying sometimes to scroll through all that stuff.- a filter for tier items  like meta lvl, t2, officer, faction whatever - system security and/or jump range- exclude buy orders when filtering item exchange"
"pls add an advanced contracting skill that let us create 10 more contracts  2 or 3 / lvl  "
"i'd like some changes to the courier contract system:1. it should be possible to enter in region/constellation/system for both pickup and destination, and only get up contracts that meets these criteria.2. it should be possible to have courier contracts that are larger than 120,000 m3, at least in private courier contracts. i see no reason to split up a 90m trit stack into 8 contracts if you know you are setting the contract up to a freighter pilot with that amount of cargospace.3. it should be possible to see and search and limit the courier contract on volume when you look at available contracts. it should also be possible to limit on max collateral and minimum reward. currently the filters for courier contracts are not working very well, except for the filter on name  which works very well .i'll update this post if i get more ideas."
"seconded. searching by contract destination alone would be worth its weight in ... dyspro?--krum"
"having the seller set the minimum bid increase would invite attempts to scam, and there is already enough of that on the existing contracts.personally i'm in favour of tiers, with the minimum bid increase being the lower of 10% or the tier. i'd set the tiers at:up to 100m - 1mup to 1b - 5mpast 1b - 25m"
"i would like to see a bid for an auction going in as a 'maximum bid' such as that worked by ebay etc. yesterday i put a bid in for a 1-run phobos bpc for 49.9mil because of a lag spike in jitaobviously i didnt wish to bid this much but if the bid was counted only as my maximum bid it would be unlikely that i lost as much isk."
"the auction creator should be able to set the minimum increment.and leave the default at 10%; some people will want more, some less."
"the following options should be set by contractor:starting bid minimum bid incrementoptional buyoutoptional sniper rule time auction ending time  within limits reserve is a bit silly. it could be used to circumvent taxation by setting a low starting bid and set a reserve.minimum bid increment should be within bounds set by the starting bid. this would avoid scamming attemps and tax avoidance  low starting bid, high incremnts  as well as 0.01 isk wars.to the bidder all variables should be clearly visible, including the precise ending time."
"i think that anywhere within the 0.1% to 1.0% range would be reasonable: keeping it on par with the magnitute of broker fees/taxes."
"why must the min bid be fixed?? i mean when i auction something on the forums i get to set the min bid, why should in-game be any different?"
"the 120k m^3 limit on contracts needs to be lifted. currently, the only way to move a ship without repackaging it is to enter it into a courier contract - obviously, this excludes many ships, such as battleships, barges, and so on that might have rigs fitted, and, but for the limit, would easily fit into a freighter.a paladin takes up 517,500m^3 when not packaged, so this is a minimal value for any new upper limit. i'd suggest a new limit of about 750,000m^3, but no more than 900,000m^3  or contracts might not fit into a fenrir . maybe 720,000m^3, just to be on the safe side."
"thank you for your support, but i'm not clear as to why you think ccp won't respond. they've already stated it's a known bug and defect rather than the result of a nerf. all the proposal is asking for is an estimated time of completion on the two bugs and request the completion date be sooner rather than later.regards,windjammer"
"yeahyour right.they will get right on that now that they know about it."
"good one and i can appreciate where you're coming from with the irony, but you're missing some information.of course ccp knows about these problems already, but the information you're missing is what ccp has said about issues brought to them by the csm. items brought to them by the csm more often than not get a bump up the priority list. so an inquiry, even a brief one, has a good chance of being responded to by ccp in a positive fashion.best regards,windjammer"
"yep, seen both."
"not missing it actually.and while i fully support the addition of more bureaucratic hurdles to anything and everything  kinda like hiring someone to tell you something you already knew  to further complicate things that otherwise are plain and simple and easy to handle, i just dont see it happening given that they have actually known about it for years and responded to dozens of threads about it and have done nothing.i mean really, how far down this imaginary \"list\" does a actaul bug that is detrimental to gameplay have to be for it to be ignored so long yet remain unaddressed?oh, yeah. thats right. drones are lagging and not good for large fleet engagements and ccp really has that \"multiplayer=join a large dev supported allience or suffer\" mentality about the game.are more alliences using drones?whatever.though if it does go through i will of course step up my \"pay to play\" idea of paying off the csm to give a crap about issues that dont actually directly effect them and instead focus on improving gameplay as a whole.but really good luck on this."
"your idea   i personal think it s a pretty good idea should be combined with some minimum standing to the station u plan upgrading your office.or perhaps adding a shareholding market?  where u can buy shares, which make it possible. or perhaps combined with actually factional warfare and shares u can only get via missions, depended on your sucess of pvp kills.with something like this it would be able to seed out the market a bit.  theorie example:corp a got on federation navy miltia mission where it is possible to get a share of the corp.this share u can change for a module which upgrade your office. pa example 1x tech ii ship manufactory  lowers building costs/ time, limited to 5 slots  the corporation is able to rent this slots to other peoples.the manufactory must be build by the player for a price simliar to pos modules. like u said this would be interesting for manufactors if they get a little extrabonus by this.i personal think it should be not to simple to have such an office upgrade.at least it should be in line with the time u need to fuel a pos, transport etc.stations should have limited space to upgrade offices.als stations should be more in line with there profession.\"research stations = limited to research office upgrades pa example\"\"navy stations = manufactorys around war toys\"\"shipyrads\" = manufactory slots around ships.it would seedout the manufactors and can split them up around constelaations.perhaps something against highly frequented trade hubs.if u would add a shareholdingsystem, where it is possible that peoples got dividendes  i they own shares  depended on the market transfers and incoming isks, u can seed out the market.oki to much about market:but your idea is a good base for something like this."
"interesting suggestions. maybe make the slot type dependent on what kind of station it is? also, perhaps the upgrades can be sold at the lp store, as a proxy for the standings issue - a half-million lp gets you 10 lines of the appropriate type, say? also, they should expire when you lose control of the office, to avoid the need to keep track of what offices are pimped and what offices aren't. at the prices being charged by pc slots now 9k/hour , a single slot makes just under 80 million isk a year at full utilization, so 500k lp for 10 seems like a fair price, give or take. maybe it's a bit high, assuming prices drop with the increased availability, but it's a starting point. i'm not sure where you're going with the talk of shares, though. care to explain further?"
"i couldnt find the link to the post anymore so i will \" paste\" some from inside my folders on words here. it could be interesting combined with your sugesstion.1: station s and bonuses industrial stations: - extra bonus on tax for building jobs / mineral/ ore/components trades- extra bonus for equipment building requirements/ refining- load in / load out time to stop new mega hubs- building slots limited to produce equipment/ components   perhaps an little bonus shipyards  building slots for ships within all classes- extra bonus to all building jobs- not possible to dock only to open a hangar where u can put the stuff u need for the job- choose of delivery of the job  compact modus to transport it within freighter s or directly to board it. - compact/ board modus effect the building timescience stations: - extra bonus for all research/invention jobs to lower the tax on jobs- extra bonus to all blueprint trades- load in load out time to stop new mega hubs   bpcs goes in a checking phase the computer is heavy in progress u stay in line navy stations: - extra bonus to faction trades limited to ships/ equip navy shipyards:- same as shipyards with an extra bonus to faction ship buildings include t ii shipsthe idea behind this could be splitting the trades, to lower high frequented stations. to have something like this , it must be interesting for players with extra bonus. also it must be limited to give the npc corporations a real  sense in there business. something like this could be also used to start a faction warfare scenario.like the caldari industrial section is in a depression. the envy of the increasing business of the gallentean industry makes them agrressiv, and they start attacking them shipyards should be placed in systems without high npc colonisations.  accidents in stations with high amounts of death npcs and long term damage for citizens of space stations, let them think about building a separate section and shipyards away from the colony there specialisations increase the bonuses to jobs stations in low security systems, add a bigger bonus to there tax/ jobs instead of the non presents of protection of concord.  the bonus reflect the tax they pay for ded/ concord to protect in high security system 2:black market hubs: - special  smuggler stations where u can  only  offer your shiny npcs pirate faction stuff- located in low security / war buffer zones  the trade of npcs pirate faction stuff within the empire is seen as an criminal act to stop supporting npc pirate factions - bonuses on tax for trades   which could be nice if u save several millions when u sell your 10bn mod - to enter such a station u need to contact a middles men on the normal stations like a  agent- this middles men gives u an special rigg which u had to set into your ship and guaranty u the docking.  without u get toasted - a middles men is also the option to spread out deals to lower the traffic, and have no  balck market mega hubthe idea behind this is, keep out all trades for npcs pirate faction stuff like modules  pos / ships- whatever  to keep them away from the trading stations. if the compute gives the direction via the middles men and a spread out around the constellation, it will lower the traffic + add several scenarios to pirates / gankers , smugglers."
"3. brokers. -adding them to stations - get your infos about market prices include traffic status and load in/ load out time- offers contact to npc agents, which change transport jobs into dynamic missions for players..  system like u give him the goods which u need transported,. then he gives it to an agent inside the station, which offers to transport the goods to a mission runner. the mission runner gets secured cargocans in a size  m / 3  which need to be transported.  it would open the way for a lot of mega trading missions, which will be dynamic then -reward will be done by the player--- like a payment -the broker gives a certificate to the mission runner as an extra bonus  reduce tax which is adapted to the market skills the idea behind this is : sort out the maximum in profit , with an broker. save your time let mission runners do your job. this would improve the transport missions, which are atm more scam then serious. certificates or tax, it will be your choise.  + it safes skill time if u have certificates  4. certificates and npc-corp shareholding systemcertificates adapted to the actually trade skills to reduce the tax on transactions.player can choice if a certificate or the skill.  but not both together certificates will be generated in dynamic transport missions as rewards. upon m/3 of goods which need to be transported+ range  npc-s corp shares via broker needs a good standing / relation to the broker  dynamic transport missions shares are limited and gives a monthly % dividend upon the business, which is done at this station  % of transaction taxes etc  something like this could open the way for public relation works and specializing trades/transports.  buy orders to bring ppls to transport/trade stuff at your station upon the business shares raise or fall.a lot of text.  there was more, but  it could be a nice addition and reforming the market a bit.if u could offer players your manufactory slots, it could be interesting around this. public relations would start because u anne have a high dividende each month.   theorie bregmac"
"this is ridiculous. a corp is a corp. corps can be wardecced. are we going to allow corps to join militias to dodge decs now? if you get wardecced, deal with it. there should be no easy button to earn you allies."
"all i asked for is making pos anchoring less painful... i'll leave the overhaul of the system to the whining pvpers :d"
"you mean sub-version no doubt"
"it would be useful when at work  12 hour shifts sometimes d"
"ladies and gentlemen, we already have a positive response from the developers. as i understand it, it will be implemented with a medium - high priority."
"am i the only one with experience around children?when they come to you, again and again, begging for a cookie. you say \"alright dear, i'll get you a cookie in a minute.\"then you let them run along and play.it's called pacifying. and that's exactly what each and every one of these new meeting minutes threads amounts to. \"we understand the situation, and it will be addressed\" says to me at least \"ok honey, i'll get it later.\"evemon, start eve, eft... all are examples of an issue in the game. and issue that went on for so long, that other players had to invent their own means around the problem. and now that the solution was created without ccp paying for it, they have no desire to implement their own solution. far easier to link you to the outside source they haven't licensed, and thus don't have to bother paying for.it's smart, economically. but lazy, professionally."
"turning off training while unsubscribed is slightly harder than people seem to think.unless the devs are morons, your database entry is not continually training.instead, your skill point status and time at the last occaision you started or stopped a skill is what will be recorded. then the client will calculate your current skill's points-so-far for the character sheet, but only confirm it with the server when a skill finishes.skill points exist in a state of uncertainty until you measure them. they are schroedinger's skill points.that means that if you unsubscribe and then resubscribe, the system would have to count back through subs records when you next log on to figure out how far you should have got with your current skill.it is unlikely that historic subscription records are available to tranquility itself, and so the trick to implementing this apparently 'simple' functionality would be to have tq call up the subscription server at each login and check the history since you last connected.it's not impossible obviously, but more awkward than people seem to think.as most people have pointed out - a short skill queue  current skill plus one or two next skills  would stop mass character farming and work out just fine."
"i love the idea of tradeable kill rights. it could actually make bounty hunting a possible career. :d"
"good to see all that posting in the idea forum is getting through on the count of partial bounty payouts to reflect the losses inflicted."
"its eve. dont nerf ganking, just fight fire w/ fire bounty hunting is the way to go.however, i'm wondering what type of time tables we are looking at for short, medium and long term. no one wants to sit around and wait for a real ingame response to ganking 'soon' or 'slated for winter of 2011'. my other concern is that bounty hunting will be a 'pre nerfed' profession. i'll reserve judgement until they actually release a working model, but just wanted to throw that tidbit in"
"one thing i don't get about eve is why are they punishing players for there playing style? eve is supposed to be a game where you can do your own thing, start up a industrial corporation and produce ships or start up a pirate corporation and kill stuff. so why is there a security status in the first place? it's like saying \"here, play the game the way you want but if you do naughty things we are going to deny you access to half of eve!  just a bs number, dont know exactly how many lowsec/0.0 systems there are compared to empire .i understand the need for something so that people are not running around killing people left right and center in highsec, but i also don't think the way security status is setup right now is the correct way. hasn't ccp said before that highsec is not supposed to be designed as a place where no one can touch you? why protect people who go around in t1 untanked haulers on autopilot with billions in there cargohold?just my two cents."
"fortunately, ccp disagrees with you.honestly, i'm amazed at the number of people that still try and make that argument given that every statement ccp has ever made on the subject has been to the contrary. if you just want to complain, then fine, but if you want to talk about changes to game mechanics that might actually get implemented some day, you need to accept the developers' position on the issue and work from that - whether you agree with it or not. the devs are not going to change one of the most basic building blocks for eve because you don't like getting shot at in empire."
"this may be a bit of a side note, but what i would like to know that are there any plans on revising the insurance payouts on tech 2 ships?in my mind one of the biggest problems with the hulk for example concerning suicide ganking is that it doesn't really even pay to insure it, since even the best insurance in no way reflects it's real market value. last i looked it was about a third of the market price.so, are there any changes to be expected regarding this?"
"and when i'm crusing through high sec and target you, you auto target me back and your mods are active, and you engage me, get popped by concord, and don't get insurance, then what?the problem is not the pirates but the pilots that allow them to be ganked. i've lost billions, but i don't whine about it, cost of doing business."
"so how about throwing us piratey types a bone on this one and reducing sec hits in low sec?to give an example, if you were to increase the security penalty for aggression/kill in 1.0 space 2.5 times it's current amount to 1.25% and 5% respectively, and then have the penalty decrease as security gets lower by a multiplier equal to system security, security status could mean more than if concord will show up  and how quickly . sec loss would thusly look like this:sec: aggro/kill%1.0: 1.25/5.00.9: 1.125/4.50.8: 1.0/4.00.7: 0.875/3.50.6: 0.75/3.00.5: 0.625/2.50.4: 0.5/2.0  current values 0.3: 0.375/1.50.2: 0.25/1.00.1: 0.125/0.5as it is now, it's just high and low sec, the numbers don't really mean a thing. this was how i was initially led to believe system security worked when i started, instead of a mostly black/white split of low/high sec."
"yep - simple fix.thats as it should be - otherwise leave it as it is. this is eve !"
"welcome to hello kitty online."
"another commonly-proposed suggestion that would help this situation a lot and give a boost to lowsec piracy too, while making -10 a somewhat bigger accomplishment . i approve."
"the hell is this statement? too biased in the ganker's favor? their are a slew of defensive modules and precautions someone can take to not get suicide ganked. these include: wcs, istabs, a scout, logistics protection, not carrying enough to be a target, transport ships, cov ops and force recon ships, tanking your ship, cloaking. all the ganker can do is sit right out in the open and wait for a target. in fact there has been several adjustments to concord making suicide ganking harder and harder.please, ccp wrangler, explain to all of the players here how it is too biased for the ganker. for a topic that got so little support from the playerbase i do not think you are getting the correct information on this subject."
"well its simple,in rl, you crashed your car while being chased by police, what will be the response from your insurance if you try to claim it back?...i rest my case.on the other side, players should be aware of their environment, carrying 800 m worth of datacore and flying afk or autopilot is just an invitation to be ganked.naresh"
"the issue that the gankers don't see is how odd it is to take out a 2bil capital ship+cargo with a gang half that expensive, and covered entirely by insurance, and then have one person take a four-hour sec hit. bad balance, simply. this logic applies primarily to freighters, though the rashes of miner-ganking  not just farmers, mind you  have raised the issue to greater prominence. i have much less sympathy for afk industrial haulers, in their 1 mil ships.excellent plan: flagging the criminals who commit crimes as... criminals. bravo. not so bravo on the additional sec hit based on the status of the victim. instead, a counter-proposal: have concord contribute to the bounty of the perpetrator s  based on the sec status of the victim. this would only work with corrections to the bounty system as well  see below .good plan. cancelling insurance payout under circumstances in which a  the aggressor is destroyed by concord--and--b  the victim is destroyed by the aggressor, would prevent \"accidental discharge\" from ruining newer players, while ensuring that successful ganks are not rewarded by insurance.if you wish to increase the sec hit for pirate activities in highsec, then you should decrease it for pirate activities in lowsec. this is only logical and fair, but also only reasonable if you fix the bounty system, which i'll comment on further in another response.this would be cool. because a lot of suicide ganking targets are in npc corporations, it would be appropriate to move them out of protected npc corps--and into special, wardec-able npc corps--once they reach a certain amount of skill points. this \"kicking the new players out of the nest\" is highly reasonable given the nature of eve, and would if done right cut many of the farmers out of business... or at least permit them to be legally attacked.npc corp standing loss on criminal action is not a bad idea--but faction loss is a very bad one, if for no other reason than the lack of options in recovering standing, currently.i generally approve of this plan, but it needs more fleshing out, and i wish the csm and ccp working groups the best of luck.--krum"
"simple solution is to add just a single logistical ship to the concord detail moving in to protect a ship that is being ganged. this should only be a \"feature\" for the highest sec gangs like 1.0 and 0.9.a single logistical ship respawning with more concord ships if it was killed, would make it significantly harder to do empire ganging and would hopefully reduce it to 0.8 systems and below.this would mean that gangers would have to follow there pray for a couple of systems which would give the pilot of ship that was about to be ganged a chance to dockup or atleast counter the attempt some how.i defenetly thing that empire ganging should stay in the game but to things make this way to easy first gangers can just sit and wait in the biggest tradehubs for a potential target they dont even have to move at all.spider tanking doesn't have any limitations which is actually more of a general problem - im not saying that it should be nerfed to the same level as nano they could look into some kind of stacking nerf for the remote reppers."
"let me throw out some more detailed comments on the killrights and bounties, as i think these really are the core to a functioning \"justice\" system in eve. currently killrights sit on characters for a month or so, dependent on the victim's ability to do damage to the pirates who fried him in the first place. not a good prospect for a player who gambled on a little lowsec missioning, ratting, or mining--and lost. killrights also do not authorize podding, a provision that works poorly with the bounty system as-is.bounties are simply collected by an alt or friend once they rise high enough, after a quick jump-clone trip to avoid implant loss. and, they're placed by players--the same who lost money to the pirate/villian to begin with.these suggestions would go a long, long way to fixing the current situation. ideally, you should be able to visit the concord/bounty hunter office, take your killright, and break it into contract-able items authorizing the recipient to kill the ship of the criminal. you should be able to break a 1-month killright from losing your ship to a criminal into 1-week, 2-week, or 1-month contractable items, so as to spread the love around. making such an item would of course decrement the time remaining on your own killright.since killrights apply to your corp  i think , then they should permit the recipient's corp to hunt the criminal.if the criminal podded you, then your killright should permit podding him back, with no security loss  an execution order .bounties should be paid out in proportion to the value of the ship or pod lost by the target.to prevent abuse of this, i also recommend voiding or reducing insurance payouts for ships lost due to execution  on them  of a valid killright. concord itself should contribute to bounties on players that commit criminal acts, and add a sum based on the skill points of the criminal, and the security status of the victim.of course, players could always add their own bountry contributions to others who annoy them. permit players, for a fee at the bounty office, to list themselves as bounty hunters, with statistics such as \"bounty totals collected\", \"kills executed\", \"efficiency\"  time from killright start to target termination, divided by total killright time , and etc. for additional fees, auction  limited  space on an \"advertisement board\" in each region, so hunters or merc corps can show their name, picture, and a short pitch.  \"pirates got you down? can't mine in peace? hire us. to kill them all. burma shave.\" like with transferable kill rights, wardec should be hire-able out, but that's for another thread.like in other threads, it would be great to see a comprehensive plan from the csms, regarding what they want to put in front of ccp next on stuff like this.--krum"
"i'll compromise on my \"no insurance at all\" stance, and move to a position of \"insurance only paid to members of player corps, and invalid if killed by concord\" - because that is the only fair solution unless the underlying issue is addressed.of course, as previously noted, the real problem revolves around the structure of npc corps in the first place - and unless that issue it tackled then no true, fair, and balanced resolution can be brought for suicide ganking.i strongly believe  and have posted before about it  that there should be a difference between a starter npc corp and other npc corps.i am fully in favour of protecting new players to a certain extent, a little safety net until they get their head around things, but not forever.restrict starter corps in a similar way to trial accounts, encouraging players to join either other npc corps, or player corps, as they out-grow the starter corp.allow warfare against npc corps  not starter ones , but with a high costs and factional penalties  concord might not care, but the corps and the empires aren't going to be happy about it .player corps remain as they are.in this senario it is possible to fairly remove insurance pay-outs on concord kills, because it offers up alternatives to suicide ganking on all but the newest players.added: i made a more detailed post a while back on how the revised npc corps would work, the assistance they would provide to their members, and the penalties for going to war with them. i'll save it all for a thread on the subject however, rather than further derailing this one."
"a few thoughts ...1  it is just fraking hilarious to listen to the gankers whining about being nerfed and denigrating the people they've ganked as whiners! that is absolutely choice. as with most online games - who is whining depends on whose ox is being gored.2  there are two things that are often in conflict in game design. realism and playability. in no realistic governmental system s  would the level of piracy that exists in eve ever be allowed. anti piracy would be the factional navies first priority. but - that said - most games aren't very realistic. so ... it depends on the level of realism you want. here, ccp seems to have decided they want a little bit more in this area.3  insurance pay outs to gankers killed by condord should be one of the first things to go. i laugh at the idea that this is really a penalty though. they are using frigates for pete's sake! considering the fact that they've got their buddies in some alt corp sitting by to scoop up the guy's cargo they ganked - they're making a fortune in profits - or could be if they cared to. to keep from penalizing accidents to much - the first thought that comes to mind is - was the guy who got shot blown up? if it was an accident - then the person who shot the other person is going to stop shooting at them. if they kept on firing until the other person blew up - then it's obviously more deliberate.4  only one person mentioned it but it is an excellent idea. that is to fix the fact that insurance pay outs for t2 ships are based on their t1 counterparts. this is such a glaring error that i assume there's some reason for it though what it could be escapes me. this would go a long way to redress the imbalance now suffered between ganker and gankee. the gankers lose a few frigates and the gankee's lose some hulks. the gankers won't even notice their loss even if they don't get insurace but the gankee is devastated. this is completely unbalanced. also - some kind of safe flier discount would help, 1/3rd the cost of the hull is bad.5  4 hours. oh! oh my gawd! pity the poor pirate! his victim spends months saving for that hulk and he has to spend 4 whole hours getting his security status back!!! oh my gawd!! the horror! the horror!!!6  most games are vulnerable to having the players circumvent the designers intent. ccp seems to intend that high sec not be completely safe but that it does offer some degree of safety and some penalty for those committing what it has decided are crimes. of course in any real universe - getting the slap on the wrist for blowing up someone's ship that the loss in security status is would be absurd. in any realistic venue - they'd be banned from the system for life and hunted to the ends of space for doing that one fraking time. anyway ... it obviously being ccp's purpose that this is a game for pirates by pirates with everyone else just there to give them someone to attack they've designed it the way they have. the thing is - when you get players who really max out a game design vulnerability and take full advantage of it - the way the jihad swarm did - don't be surprised when the nerf bat comes out. yes, high sec isn't supposed to be completely safe but the wholesale slaughter of miners wasn't what they had in mind either. and yes - the miners fought back as best they could hiring mercs to strike back - but in no case did their kills come even close to their losses. now - if they could have inflicted losses equal to their own - then - you would have balance. then you could say the system worked - but as i recall - the goons laughed at the merc's the whole time. the miners did get some measure of revenge and that was all they expected - but there is a vast difference between that and - balanced game play. if game mechanics allow one group to slaughter another - then the game mechanics are broken. it's about time ccp did something to fix that."
"it's you. you are the problem that causes suicide ganks."
"oddly enough, i was thinking of the logistical ship idea, as well. though in my case it occured as an \"extra insurance\" idea for a service concord could offer you: pay extra and we'll assign a logistics ship to watch over you in high-sec, should you get attacked by criminals.i'm not sure this is a good idea, frankly. as another poster pointed out, \"concord offers consequences, not protection\". this idea would, however, raise the bar for gankings and require more-experienced, better-equiped characters to pull it off. i'm not sure that's bad, given the thought of recycled alt-gankers, but it might be too much when combined with cancelled insurance contracts.you could nerf spider-tanking concord by simply giving the response ships jammers. that would break the circuit, unless the gankers use plenty of eccm.--krum"
":facepalm:how about... i don't know... having a friend do that for you instead? why the hell should npcs be involved?again people who don't know how the mechanics work. why don't you try spider-tanking concord? let me know how that works out for you."
"thanks to the csm for adressing this problem. what purpose should that serve? the more carebear the victim, the harder the sec status hit? me thinks system sec would make more sense, wouldn't it?my vote goes for no insurance at all. this would automatically balance faction/t2/t1 and solve suicide ganking till a certain level. yeah, pvp'ers would have to spend more. but don't they mostly use t2 ships anyways? and wouldn't a general decrease in isk serve eve?"
"rl comparisons to a game = complete and utter fail.if you base eve insurance on rl insurance not a single ship in eve would get insurance."
"my two cents on the subject:in what way do you feel that the situation where a cruiser can destroy an exhumer with relative ease and even get paid insurance for it, whereas the exhumer pilot gets about 1/3rd insurance at best, balanced?sure one can slap on all kindsa defensive **** on the ship, but then you might as well be flying a barge since then the mining capabilities are well and truly screwed. and what's more, not all of us have the luxury of a fleet protecting mining ops. and not carrying enough to be a terget? since when has that had to anything to do with most suicide gankers? most gankers seem to do it simply because they can, not for profit, but to cause losses on the target.sitting in the open? or perhaps in a covert op waiting to signal a buddy that the game is on. and once you see them, it's too late.adjustment to concord to make suiciding harder? i sure didn't see it. what i saw was my ship blowing up and them showing up too late. and my ship wasn't entirely untanked, there just simply isn't enough power on a hulk to fit proper shield boosters/extenders.but the main thing is a ganker with a ship worth couple of mil being able to gank a ship worth over a 100mil  the insurance of which is a joke .don't get me wrong, i agree that high-sec shouldn't be 100% secure, but at present it's getting ridiculous."
"uh, boy, tell me, what would you find to be appropriated to protect an empty industrial? ships and modules have become so cheap these days, that the gankers don't even scan the ship' cargo anymore. they simply lock you and open fire. it has happened a couple of times to me lately  and i was nowhere near jita . how many corp mates should i bring with me, to fly home that empty indu? a scout, a logistic, a jamming ship? i'm sure there are thousands of volunteers in your corp to take over the escort of an emtpy hauler some <x> jumps through high sec."
"maybe, but not having insurance wont decrease the amount of isk in the eve universe. it may decrease the flow of isk into the eve universe however. it will decrease the amount of minerals though"
"yea, and in a real universe i could take the system over, rather than fight an omnipotent police force. also noone really seemed to give a flying **** about the jihad swarm, except for those who paid the mercs. just because the mercs can't inflict the same amount of damage on the goons doesn't mean the systems broken."
"yeah right. it works like i said it did but you don't like my post so you pretend i'm wrong.*yawn*did you start posting yesterday ... or can't you come up with a more original response than that?wrong. look at lloyds.realism in game play serves as a touch stone. reality is inherently balanced while arbitrary game systems tend to move away from being balanced the more arbitrary they are.do you want the person playing your flight sim to throw up on their key board and spend 400 hours just learning to fly their p-39 the way chuck yeager did? no.but that doesn't mean that an arcade style game is desirable either.what you want is a balance between realism and arbitrary gaming devices.up to a point, the more realistic a game is - the more immersive it is. the more immersive it is, generally, the better a game it is judged to be.so - realism - does have a place in discussing game play.also, one of the ways of pointing out just how flawed something is - is by using realism as a reference.here - you have all these pirates squealing like stuck pigs because - the game designers are taking modest steps to redress their excesses. by pointing out how utterly absurd things already are in the game compared to a realistic situation - you put the pirates whining into perspective.lets be clear about this.most of the posts here, as in most forum threads, are about people advocating that their style of game play should be blessed and that game play styles they don't like should be nerfed.it isn't about who's right and who's wrong. it's about how ccp is going to adjust things one way or the other.also - realistically - paying one third the cost of your hull with no payment for the fittings  which often exceed the value of the hull by several factors  would be fairly steep.the way it should be done - is to have the premium you pay dependent on how many ships you lose.that's how real insurance works.and yes ... after a while ... you wouldn't be able to get insurance.so - if you're a careful care bear and rarely lose a ship - your premiums might go down from the base line  what it is now .if you're a suicide ganker that is constantly having your ship blown up by concord - then no you shouldn't be allowed to insure anything you own  though no one is actually advocating that . i think it would be funny if ccp did it though. that would be realistic and something the game designers could really do - if they wanted to seriously limit the amount of high sec ganking going on.if you're in a factional militia - then you're insurance premiums should be paid by the faction. they aren't - but they should be. people in the army don't pay for equipment they lose to enemy action  though they may pay for it if they lose something without the enemy being involved .the way it is in the game now, if you're in a corporation - the corporation can insure your ship  and anyone in the corporation can use it , on top of which, many corporations furnish their members with ships.so, there is a way to make the insurance situation in the game both realistic to some degree and playable.the way it is now - it is seriously flawed.everyone pays the exact same rates regardless of their play style. there is no penalty for treating your ships as being expendable.redressing the insurance system would alleviate much of the problem by not only punishing the gankers but by being fair to those they attack.as usual - being more realistic - makes a game more balanced.you just have to get it right."
"that is the way."
"neither, this is the meeting minutes the csm wrote after their meeting with ccp. i think i corrected some grammar and ryan wasn't involved at all. i'll tell him that you consider him a puppet master though. no idea, i've never had a dress before. my t-shirt size is xl if that helps? as stated above, i did not write this, i just posted it. you'll have to ask the csm."
"yeah, it got ridiculous when i can come out richer having concord destorying my ship.... before the looting... plat insurance... edit: and lets face it... the sec hit isnt that bad... if you pick your targets =p"
"can't wait for the first whine on the forums; \"oh god, i accidentally activated a mod in high-sec, got concorded and received no insurance. ccp, fix this!\""
"thats what the warning labels are for =p!!!!but yeah, you could delay insurance payout...ie: if you managed to kill/pop someone or get on the killmail as the killer in the next 20 minutes after concord popped you.you dont get insurance? but if you didnt pop anyone...you get it after the 20 minutes....that way the accidents would get it. but a *successful suicide ganker wont? yeah i doubt people who accidentally shot at/activated a ecm burst/smart bomb in highsec would manage to pop anyone...so...."
"i seriously believe that it will no problem. of course accidents will occur, but they will be rare.what you instead will see on the forums are fake troll whines, who are mighty popular these days."
"yeah, let's make high-sec the safe place it should be. a safe heaven from all the evil pirates who have nothing better to do than harrass honest players by suicide ganking. if i want to transport 2 billion in mods afk through high-sec, i should be damn able to. it's not the game mechanics, it's the people playing this game. what a change like this leads to is dumbing down the game. i guess it's natural, considering the intellectual capacity of most of the whiners here."
"yes, there are, not flaws ... but certain aspects of the game such as you've pointed out. even with factional warfare, it's not like planetside where the ultimate object of the game was to go around trying to conqueror everything - but can't you take control of a system in 0.0? doesn't that exist to some degree?  that is a rhetorical question ... .uh ... sure ... only the people getting blown up cared. but if you look at the stats on just how many miners got blown up the loses really were slanted in one direction.it isn't that one side lost more than the other - it's that one side was being slaughtered by the other on a consistent basis.ccp has given high sec some degree of protection for a reason. there are some operations by some people that need some degree of protection. otherwise - there wouldn't be any newbee miners. they'd all be base camped in their schools.commercial vessels need some degree of protection from combat vessels.if you've really got your act together and are in a strong alliance then you can go on down to 0.0, take over a system and protect that system and your people in it and reap the rewards for operating in 0.0.if you aren't in that situation, which a lot of people are not, then you need a bit of help and that's why the game has different levels of security.nothing ccp is advocating is going to end suicide ganking or make high sec a completely safe place to be.all they are talking about doing is redressing a problem.if the goons hadn't done what they did though - we wouldn't be having this conversation.  see the link to the goons killboard posted in that thread .yes, they certainly weren't and aren't the only ones - but they made a big show of it - which only encouraged copying ... so even more people did it. so it became a problem.all the wailing and knashing of teeth by the gankers posting here is just over reaction.trust me - eve is going to stay the same cold, heartless game it was designed to be and has always been.all ccp is doing is taking steps to keep things the way they were before suicide ganking became what it has become.this isn't about turning eve into a warm fuzzy place filled with sunshine and laughter. it's about it not getting any more vicious and deadly than it already was."
"lol... well, if you would take the time to read through the numerous threads about suicide ganking you would have a better idea why your views on it are based on complete fallacies. the originality of my response is higher than the originality of your rant, as that has been answered and debunked numerous times already. when you get the urge to post about a subject in which you have no experience, please, do us all a favor and step away from the computer. this debate is muddled enough by imbecilles who haven't the slightest clue.this is what i'm talking about when i say \"do your ****ing research\". you obviously haven't read any of the hundreds of posts debunking this nonsense."
"do you think you could do us the favor of asking the devs mentioned in the op to come here and answer a few of our questions - like how they can just suddenly realise that suicide ganking is too easy despite it having been the same way for five years?would make us all feel much better about this i think."
"but - you see - i have done my research and come to a different conclusion than yourself.my conclusion - as it happens - is right and your conclusion - as it happens is wrong.thus - you are the one who needs to remove the bias from your point of view - and look at what is really going on.gankers abused - no - took advantage ... of a vulnerability in the game mechanics - and now they are being made to pay for it.if they'd not taken as much advantage of it as they did - we wouldn't be having this conversation.i'm not the one that caused the problem.ccp didn't suddenly wake up one morning and say \"hey! lets go nerf some gankers today!\"this all came about because a lot of people started doing the same thing and it had a real effect.the people who said \"hey! lets all get together and go gank a real **** load of miners! we'll use cheap ships and cheap modules and pend will pay for our lost ships! man this will be cool. we'll really make those care bears squeal!\" - they are the ones you have to thank for this.if they hadn't done so much of it - ccp wouldn't have changed anything.isn't that the way this always works?someone comes up with a way to really take advantage of some game mechanic - and - the developers nerf it.what's the big surprise?"
"it's funny how many times the \"griefer\" niche needs to adapt to the whines of the super-rich who are goddamn lazy and afk haul billions in their t1 industrials. risk vs reward my ass. sounds more like reward vs better reward."
"two thoughts on this really:1. when you delete a character, it doesn't get deleted for a monthso before you suicide gank with your alt. with the plan of re-cycling it, you know you're going to have to wait an entire month before you can start training again.2. delay insurance payouts on concord destroyed ships for a month too."
"then it'd be my fault for having auto-target turned on, concord warnings turned off and weapons blinking when not engaging an enemy already. perhaps it would promote people to be a little more careful in what they're doing. if someone has auto target back on, but has disabled the concord warnings, they only have their selves to blame for 'accidents'. there are measures in place for a reason."
"wouldn't work.suicide ganking works on the premise that you have already destroyed your target by the time concord arrive, because when that happens you're instantly scrammed, jammed and omgwtfpwned. no one is doing any damage to a gank target once concord are on grid, they're too busy with the dying.what frustrates me about the suicide gank debate is the argument that there are plenty of things the target can do to protect themselves. i don't buy that personally. if you arrive on the other side of a gate into a waiting gank party you're dead. do not pass go, do not collect <U+FFFD>200. there is literally nothing you can do in this situation, and unless you have a very peculiar fit theres no way any tank can survive ~20 seconds of overloaded torp volleys hitting you.the issue at heart really is the fact that faction & officer modules do not confer an added level of protection commensurate with their price tags. a 5 billion officer-fit battleship does the job in missions a bit faster, but against 6 ravens that have a collective cost of about 100m  insurance payout -  ship + insurance cost   it stands no chance. i'm not advocating that faction/officer modules should make ships a lot stronger, just pointing out a flaw if you will in the system."
"uh ... i recently deleted a new character i'd made ...  poor choice of name ...  but it only took me a day or so ... maybe two ... and he was off to the bio-mass recycler.*shrug*"
"educate yourself.nothing in the game mechanics has changed to make ganking easier since that was written. this invalidates your 'argument'."
"except there are plenty of things a pilot can do to avoid being suicide ganked, to say otherwise is to whine out of your arse. and you should realize that your officer mods only give so much advantage, theres a show info button on the contract window, and a compare to option on the module info screen. and hell if its a 5bn fit i don't need insurance to gank it"
"in fact ganking has been made harder!"
"remove insurance and the problem goes away  along with a myriad of other issues with the game revolving around the industry and market "
"no it doesn't."
"so suicide ganking in high-sec will be made harder/more costly, i can actually see some reasons supporting this... butdon<U+FFFD>t make it too hard/costly, this isn<U+FFFD>t \"hello kitty online\", harder-yes , impossible-nomake sure it doesn<U+FFFD>t equally hit normal low-sec piracy, it<U+FFFD>s hard enough as it is and is an essential part of low-secwhile your at it, why don<U+FFFD>t you kick everyone older then 1-2 months out of the npc-corps? make them valid wardecctargets instead of suicide targets.the suggestion to connect sec-hits and faction/corp-standing sucks tbh, even pirates need to have a home and run some missions  if not for anything else then to be able to reform if they want , f***ing up their factionstanding would be a massive hit imo and not an easy one to repairjust my humble opinions"
"how so. removing insurance lowers the profit barrier and would in essence reduce the number of incidents. eve is not a pretty place and no place in space is safe. you cannot eliminate ganking, it would be idiotic to even remove it completely anyway.you can however eliminate the innumerable number of gank camps sitting on the borders of jita, or at the chokepoints between major hubs since they exist for profit. they profit because insurance buffers the actions. remove insurance and you remove the buffer and add cost.you can still gank...it'll just cost you more now.. the way it should be....i won't even get into the other benefits no insurance has since it's for another thread."
"the most obvious problem is the payment of insurance to suicide gankers. i support the removal of all insurance from the game after a toon reaches a few million experience points. by then they should know better.ccp needs to implement a tracking system for biomassed toons. there needs to be a way to determine if someone is making suicide toons and recycling them frequently. then ban the perps.the real key is making bounty hunting a viable profession. being a piewrat is a viable profession: its nemesis should also be viable. more viable, actually, as they are on the side of the law.trends i like in the posts seen so far:- no insurance for concorded ships- reduced penalties for low-sec pirating, increased for high-sech pirating- tradable kill rights. longer timers on kill rights.- podding included with a kill right- bounty reworking so piewrats don't just have a buddy pod them- bounty hunter profession reworkedccp, i'm sure you're aware of just how divisive this topic is. do what you can to allow piewrats to exist: just don't consign the rest of eve to only exist as 'prey'."
"unless ccp broke the code, or there's some sort of exploit floating around i don't know about, everyone on the killmail gets the sec hit."
"that is not true by the sound of that you never have been the victim of suside ganking..if you have you would not be saying that if you lost about 100-200m worth of cargo not including the ship.there is a simple fix for this if a persons ship gets destroyed in high sec from a ganker simply have it so that he/she gets up to 60% value of said ship back. and also have a way to ensure the onboard cargo in a similar way, not just the ship like the system is now.or have concords ships be able to insta pop any ship as soon as it fires of the first roundganker looses his ship and the victim should get awayif not there is the current insurance for that and also have it so that the cargo can be insured as well."
"this has got to be a troll."
"seriously"
"afraid not. this is a prime example of our opponents in this debate."
"sucide gankers are nessessary to remove these nasty marco miners - i would like to see a system which forces people out of npc corps into wardec'able corps; but giving a new players a month or so time to get the hang of the game and find a corp to join before they get transfered if the player can't find a corp then a new automatic corp can be formed which is wardec'able and has a tax rate ? , this new taxrate could add towards global victory conditions for wardec'ing partys. once a automatic corp has been wardec'd players in the corp can not leave the corp for a much longer time period than the standard 24hours nor can new players join a wardec'd corp.as for bounty hunters hunting pirates - kill rights should be automaticly passed on to the bounty hunters for all people who commit acts of crime. as for pirates and gankers - they should receive a direct security hit and not get concorded, but lose priviledges to dock & jumpgates at main stations in that sector and then forced to use backdoor pirate stations and jumps gates staged in deep space inorder for these criminals to move around / sell stuffjust ideas..."
"remember the idea is to steer people away from ganking and towards war decs, real pirating, mercs, etc..leave the ability to gank, just put the costs inline with the action and remove insurance."
"if this was the idea, then npc corps would have to go./edit: oh, and corp jumping to avoid wars would have to be made impossible, or a bannable offense."
"how so? remove insurance and you still can have your alt'd gankers. they just cost quite a bit more than before.if you want a for profit operation, you'll be forced to declare war and hunt your target down in empire. sorta how it was intended you know?"
"erm, no to the no insurance. and as for mostly using t2 ships anyways - where are you pvping, and how did you get into it. specifically, let me emphasize this - how did you get into it.for someone just starting out and looking to pvp in a frigate or cruiser, insurance is what allows them to go \"huh... i really screwed that one up - let me get a new ship and try again\", as opposed to \"damn, lost my ship - now i have to go grind for an hour or two to afford another cruiser\". and when you first start out, it takes you an hour or so to be able to afford a frigate with t1 fittings. its only later, as you get experience with pvp and get to know what you're doing that insurance becomes more pointless and you start using t2 ships.also remember that people can be doing industry or something else for years before they try out pvp, and then they tend to loose even more ships than someone who just started the game. there is no reason to make the cost of trying it too ridiculous.-arazel"
"eh ... i read that ages ago.who said anything had changed in the game mechanics?i said the suicide gankers had taken advantage of existing mechanics.i said that they got so good at taking advantage of existing mechanics that it led to a slaughter of miners and got ccp's attention.the very existence of this thread validates my argument.perhaps if you'd learn to read what people have written instead of presupposing what they are saying we'd not be having these little discussions."
"if by \"taken advantage of\" you actually mean 'used' i'm ok with that line.no, what really happened was an influx of people who didn't know they had to be cautious even in high sec. they got killed, where kinda miffed about it and decided that threadnaughting eve-o about it was the correct way of action. the only ones who have payed attention to the whiners are csm. they are not ccp. our community manager, wrangler, who posted this thread has distanced himself from the contents of it. ccp don't care about this.god no. the existence of this thread is due to endless amounts of whines by players who don't know how to play. i'd say we still would, because even now that you post something that is actually formatted in a readable manner, it is still full of falacies."
"because alliances make extensive use of npc alts to circumvent war decs. suicide ganking is the only way to target logistics in this game. it should not be hard to do. it should be encouraged.kind of hard to declare war on an npc corporation, which, incidentally, was my entire point..."
"in that regard, you could always just limit slots from npc corps. gimp them so that players are encouraged to create their own corporations."
"having explored high sec. ganking from both ends of the issue i have the following observations.in eve we are supposed to find our own paths.. miner, hauler, missioneer, bounty hunter, and pirate.so obviously there should be piracy.the bounty system is broken. that is the biggest proponent allowing hsg. tradeable kill rights would go a long way to fix that. currently the only people in my experiance who get ganked are those who are autopiloting shuttles and industrials through low  high sec  the risks of hsg increase as the system sec status drops. 0.7 - 0.5 will guarentee a gank from a shuttle with 10 +5 implants autopiloting.avoid the muss and fuss... warp to zero.allow tradeable kill rights and you make the bounty hunter proffesion viable. nuff said.tribe"
"thank you for adressing this subject.i have a friend who was mining in a retriever trying to make some isk.he is 4.5 month old in the game so he is not very skilled.he was mining in chelien  0.7 system  when lautsu of x-fire killed him.he lost his ship and all equipment and wants to quit eve.anything that can stop actions like this would be good."
"- paying attention- being aligned- having friends that help you- not fly what you can't afford to lose- tanking your ship- treat all space as dangerous spaceyou're welcome."
"you guys fighting to keep insurance payouts when concord are involved are hilarious.1. make minmatar chararacter.2. train 9 days to fly a disco-phoon.3. buy typhoon for $58 million, thanks to severe carebear competion in prices  go invention! 4. buy/collect 4 large emp smartbombs, 4 large proton smartbombs, 5 1600mm plates, 2 cpu upgrades for about $5 million.5. pay $22.5 million for insurance on typhoon.6. warp to ice belt in abudban next to 3-4 covetors in your $85.5 million isk ship.7. hit f1 through f8. click yes to \"i want to make money\" question.8. watch pretty lights and start giggling uncontrollably.  disco! 9. wait for concord to come and help you make insurance money.10. watch covetors pop like popcorn.11. watch wallet fill with $75 million in insurance payout.12. dock up in egg.13. grab probe ship with cargo expanders, fly back and collect loot.14. sift through t2 ice miners, t2 cargo expanders, various shield mods all totaling $10 to $20 million.15. dock up knowing you spent $85.5 million but collected $90 million on average.nooooo, insurance doesn't need to be looked at at all...."
"i support this one hundred percent. not because there's too much suicide ganking of autopiloted haulers with billions in cargo, but because of something this thread and related ones seem to have ignored. mining barges being suicide ganked by solo battlecruisers or battleships.here's the scenario that was being played by a section of goonswarm....you remember.........those jihadswarm fellows.suicide ganker manufactures a brutix and a hulk. the brutix is insured for the max payout. suicider sends an alt cov op into the system where it finds an ice mining hulk. suicider then jumps into system and warps straight to the cov op. the cov op bumps the hulk to keep it from aligning for warp. suicider takes out the hulk with maybe three volleys, dies by concords hand, has an alt or partner loot the wreckage of both ships, collects insurance, goes down to 0.0 to speed rat the sec status back up and....oh yeah sells the new hulk he's manufactured. then he's back in a day or two to do it again.in at least one solar system the same guy was doing the suiciding and selling of hulk mining barges.one suicider to do the job. he's not gone for weeks, he's gone for a day or two at the most. he nearly makes a profit from the insurance alone. the sale of the new hulk and any loot from the wrecks is gravy and this says nothing about the loot and bounty isk he makes in 0.0 ratting.utilization of the game mechanics in this fashion made a joke of concord and high sec security. sure you should be able to suicide gank, but this risk free profit making griefing is absurd. if you're going to suicide somebody, it should hurt.regards,windjammer"
"lawlsclueless"
"5m isnt worth my time and effort, i like pimped out mission runners"
"a very simple solution:make ships killed by suicide ganking  damaged by someone who's not wardecced  not drop cargo.1. this stops suicide ganking for profit, as there is no longer profit to be had.2. this still allows suicide ganking to interdict alt-corp logistics.the goons can still suicide gank the bob alt-corp freighter all they want, knowing that the cargo will be destroyed."
"you forgot #16, which is where i petition you for recycling alts."
"couple of comments / ideas i had:i don't remember where i first read it, because it's been suggested in the forums over and over, i would like to see some sort of penalty to insurance payouts when concord kills you  max payout with best insurance = 50% when concord is involved with the kill? . if you broke the laws of eve, you should not receive full reinmbursement for it.i very much like the idea of being able to trade kill rights. i think this would be a good way to help improve the bounty system. one thought i had, was that perhaps it would be worthwile to create some way to gain kill rights on the fly. so if you see someone with a large bounty, you can contact the bounty office and somehow gain kill rights  buy them?  on that person for a limited amount of time.there would definately need to be some way to keep it under control though to avoid abuse: the target must have a bounty on their head  that you did not put there ; the target would need to either receive a warning message, or gain kill rights against you at the same time so they aren't blindsided by an apparent neutral shooting them. perhaps make the bounty office a npc corporation  or perhaps non-affiliated militia? , that you can either contact from space or from any station, and make it easier  take less time  for you to gain kill rights on someone if you have a high standing with them?*carebear warning* this final idea appeals to my carebear side as i would like to see more variety in types of missions available.if the bounty office were made into a npc corp, you could also add more missions specific to that single corp like \"duo of death\". something with one or two very powerful npcs. perhaps missions that you have to hunt the target down through exploration; your agent just gives you a generic last known location \"he's believed to be somewhere in this constellation\" and you have to find him.edit: add / re-iterate a couple ideas i liked"
"well the obvious would be to kick people out of the safe npc corps and put them in the militia corp of the empire they have the highest standing with. this places them at risk as they are in a pvp specific organization. good luck macro mining or afk hauling like that. just make it so that raiding parties can enter high sec in a reasonable manner and you would slowly see the macro miners all gathering in 1.0 for the best protection. then let the gankers deal with the mining fleets in 1.0 how they see fit. congratulations you just got drafted for hiding in an npc corp for to long!a player in an npc pirate corp still has access to high sec as long as he/she has the security rating right? this would mean open warfare on mining in high sec as the rats that spawn in belts also attach an aggression timer to you making you vulnerable and legal to any npc corp player rat i think, correct me if i am wrong been away from eve for a long time . though it would be funny to watch i think that might compound the threadnaughts that get started about pirating already.i support the idea of adjusting ganking but not by nerfing the crap out of the pirates. players need to get out of safe npc corps where they run a higher risk."
"no. that's not what happened. what happened is what i said happened. but typically, the myopic poster who can only see his own point of view is unable to accept that it was the actions of the gankers that brought this upon themselves.whether you're right about wrangler we'll see. the impression i got from all this was that they did care. you might be right but your pov is so biased i can't tell if you really know something about the inner workings of ccp or just like to think you do.but, if i'm wrong about anything it may well be the amount of support ccp gives to this. here again we'll see.a bunch of developers making a big deal about getting input from the players and then ignoring it would certainly not be new.my formatting was fine. as i said above we'll have to see what ccp does about this.one thing you are right about is that whining works. of course - as i said earlier - who is whining is mostly a matter of whose ox has been gored. what you see here as justified ganker complaints i see as pirate whining.it's all just a matter of perspective.since, even if they implemented all the things the gankers are so concerned about - it wouldn't really make any difference - the level of over reaction here on the part of the gankers is easily as bad as any over reaction on the part of the ganked.or are you stupid enough to think that only care bears whine? my experience, here and elsewhere, has shown me that the biggest whiners are always the guys like you.the one thing i really hate about some pirates - is the way they try to make things out to be the victim's fault.no. he didn't die because he didn't do x, y and z - he fraking died because you blew him up.if they take pride in their work and want to boast about how sneaky they were and how they outwitted someone - i don't mind. but all this \"it was his fault i killed him\" crap is just lame.yeah, being stupid may get you killed but not being stupid is no guarantee you won't be. i take it that you think you're pretty smart - but i dare say you've been blown up more than once.but so many of you morons are like that. never take any responsibility or pride in your own actions, just blame the victim.of course the ones that are really bad - are the ones that are so stupid they actually believe their own crap.if you're just trying to distort the truth to keep your play style from being nerfed it's one thing but if you're so stupid you really believe what you are saying ... it is entirely another.\"an influx of people who didn't know they had to be cautious in high sec\" caused the problem ... yeah ... right. all those guys who'd been playing long enough to own hulks didn't know that eve was a dangerous place to play ..."
"lol, you people are funny. who is recycling? check back in a few months and i will be here. simple fact is you can have an effective suicide ganker ready to ruin peoples fun within 9 days. i never said that you would get rich doing it. and the clueless reply? i guess your right because i dont know what the heck you mean by that. any way, the whole point was to show that if you are willing to take a sec hit you can have a little fun at others misfortune and still make isk under the current set up. proving that insurance payouts when concord is involved should be stopped.i'll add the final step 16. watch bitter replies from people on the same side as me."
"it's nice to know that all those exhumers and barges that the jihad swarm killed were all fakes...as a freaking carebear, i hate to admit that i have no problem with a pilot using the auto-pilot to transport millions of isk in a tissue paper armored ship getting ganked... if the ganker has it setup so they get the loot, all the better... that would be the proper way they would make money with a suicide gank.again, i would not be all that bothered by non-noob npc corps that could be war-deced... i would base it on skill points, not time  1 - 2 million sp and you are transferred to a decable npc corp ... but i suspect you would find a whole load of player corps with 1 or 2 people in them...a good bounty system with tradable kill rights is a great idea... i am all for it... anything that allows players that are interested in pew pew to do it without punishment is great, as long as its aimed at getting the pew pew to be with others interested in pew pew. pew pew with people uninterested in pew pew is where the punishment needs to be looked into... suicide ganking is the most sterling example of forced pew pew...that the punishment is no insurance, the knowledge that the target may make some money selling what used to be useless kill rights and the security hit you take may take days of drudgery to correct  if you care to correct it  does not seem to be too bad to me."
"right back atcha, chum. while it's not the topic of discussion, your formatting really leaves a lot to be desired. try to make your paragraphs a bit longer. right now it looks as you are pressing the enter-key twice after each sentence. it really makes your posts hard to read.no, i'm not that stupid. i do know for a fact that carebears whine as a first option. my kind doesn't. we whine only when all in game options are tried and shown not to work.my guess is that you hate it because you know - deep down - that it's true. people are stupid. people flying afk, getting ganked and then whine about in on the forums are stupid. suicide gankers are merely exploiting that stupidity. if the person wasn't being stupid he would still have his stuff. you'de be amazed about how many people have no clue at all about game mechanics or how to protect themselves, or even that high sec isn't supposed to be 100% safe. it's not just noobs, although i mostly encounter people like this in the 2006+ cathegory."
"actually the arguments are pretty clear. those on one side presented the idea of removing insurance and or removing insurance on concord kills. this would be a deterrent to the suicide ganking for griefing and still leave suicide ganking open for logistical warfare, etc..the other side still has yet to present a counter to that point other than screaming whining carebears."
"lol, well that's one way of looking at it.another is that one side has demanded a change in game mechanics, and have yet to present any valid evidence or arguments for the change. the other side is having a lot of fun shooting down every moronic remark the first side manages to post."
"it's not we are having fun shooting down your arguments ki, as carebears we don't really like to shoot things, we have fun pointing out that what you think we are saying is just wrong."
"you haven't shot mine down, made on page 4, post 108. i wonder why that is? you seem to be spending a great deal of time arguing against a change many of your comrades claim will not stop or impede suicide ganking.fortunately ccp disagrees with your assesment and is on course to make the necessary changes. just think of it.......some day a hulk or mackinaw might not have to worry too much about mining in a 0.7 system with ice.windjammer"
"this sounds like a reasonable first step.perhaps having the size of security hit  for ship/pod kills more so than acts of agression  vary with the security of system might also help add depth to both high and low sec piracy.i expect that the number of successful kills by new players is fairly small.voiding insurance when concord'ed because of a successful high-sec kill instead of concord'ed because of a simple act of agression might be appropreate.however, there are likely to be alot of subtle details to address in implementing such a system.i would strongly suggest starting with making short term changes security penalties  particularly ensuring that a more sever penalty for a kill is applied to all high-sec gankers and not just the one laying the final blow  and observe the effect that it has on balance before proceeding to change insurance payouts.what would be the penalty for being in a pirate npc corp? what would be the cut of point where a player is booted into the pirate npc corp?giving players freedom to attack pirate npc corps anytime/anywhere and bootin pirates into those corps when they reach -5.0 security status wouldn't actually change anything from the current mechanics.any attempt to impose other penalties on them would only encourage the formation of annoymous player corps.all i see such a change accomplishing is forcing gankers to make irrelavant adaptions to new game mechanics."
"well, i'm arguing against it because it is not needed, is a complete cop-out, will not solve anything, will cause greater problems and doesn't make any sense what so ever. about your post 108, i'll see what i can do in a separate post.ccp hasn't made any comment claiming to support or not support any of the proposals in this thread. csm have, but they're not ccp. it seems to me as ccp are distancing themselves from the proposals in this thread, as evidenced by wrangler. personally, i believe a small change will happen, but it will be a bone thrown to you anti-suiciders to shut you up for a month or two. mean while, people will still be getting ganked, and the problems caused by whatever change is made will let themselves be known. look below for answers to your magic post 108."
"not unbalanced and very much needed as long as we have the current npc corp mechanics. change those to make everyone wardeccable and we can talk about changing suicide ganking. to change it before would unbalance things completely as people would have free reign to accumulate wealth in complete safety.a hulk pilot is not some new player without any cash. a hulk pilot mining in high sec really need to get pushed around every now and again. that will let him know he's not safe wherever he is.no, it really shouldn't hurt too much. not more than it already does anyway. concord are working exactly as they should. the proof of this is to be found at every gate and crowded asteroid belt in high sec. warp to any of those and what will you find? dozens of players not shooting each other. all of this because of concord. suicide ganking provides that little bit of risk that high sec desperately needs."
"please detail your counter argument on why it is not needed. how does it constitute a cop-out. and how will it cause greater problems, what issues will it raise and if possible can these be mitigated?really until then your just a typical cnp troll."
"no insurance is silly, let me explain why.first, new players who want to start pirate careers will be incredibly hampered.second, most gankers are only going to comit to the act if the potential rewards are there... they are not going to gank a 20 to 30 mill cargo  unless it's a mistake . so eliminating the insurance will only hurt the newest least experianced newbie players.therefore eliminating insureance payouts are just going to set precedents where it can be eliminated in other instances. it will not stop you from getting ganked in udema when you bring your itteron iii through topped off with morph. you will still get ganked.keep in mind that part of the game is piracy. you will get kill rights and there is nothing more satisfying that catching the ganker later when he is in a mission ship and popping him and looting his wreck.despite what you may beleive hsg is completely inefective if the target warps to zero. go out and experiment, fit up a cargo scanner, sit at a gate and scan inbound and outbound ships, note how little time you have to react, and notice that most people do warp to zero. - good luck too! as far as those people who get ganked in barges in high sec belts thats not driven by a need to generate funds, thats more of a griefing imho.tribe"
"*sigh*have you read any of my posts? i'll sum it up for you since you can't be bothered to.- it's not needed because there's no particular problem to solve. noone has provided any evidence that suicide ganking has gone up to levels that are detrimental to the game. in fact, noone has provided any evidence that suicide ganking has risen relatively to the increase of players. noone has provided any evidence that suicide ganking needs to be limited, and noone seems to be able to listen to or use any of the numerous counters that have been presented over and over again.- removing insurance for concord related crimes is a cop out because that won't solve a thing. people will still suicide gank. it is a cop out because such a change makes no sense at all. \"criminals shouldn't get insurance\" my ass. using the rl argument, noone in eve should get any insurance. the only, and i mean only, reason that ccp would ever contemplate making this change is to placate the whining masses. it won't help, and it will cause more problems than it solves, but much like before, whiners will whine until they get what they whine for. only then, when they finally realise exactly what it was they asked for, will they start whining that the 'solution' wasn't as great as they expected, and that ccp should change the game again.- removing insurance for concord related crimes will cause havoc in crowded systems in empire. mission ravens that are already exploding from concord left right and center will now not recieve any insurance. a mechanic designed to mitigate such losses will suddenly have disappeared, and the economy will take the full brunt of the blow. it's not going to break the economy apart, but it will make people quit the game in greater numbers than those quitting due to suicide ganks. another problem is that such a change would make it seem as though ccp ranks mission running as a more valid profession than high sec piracy. it will be a step away from an open ended \"players solve their own problems\" sandbox of a game, and a step towards a game where npcs and rigid mechanics limit what you can and can't do. it is a step towards the mainstream mmo market that, while it probably would temporarily increase subscriber numbers, would eventually cause the players that see through the bad pve system and see a game that is player driven and pvp centric. i.e, it would drive away the hard core players, spelling eventual doom for the game.i hope this answers your questions."
"hmmm..., i'm thinking the classic muu-muu will suit your body style best. try this baby on, one size fits all.wranglers new look = "
"well i know you're probably all excited and bothered by this issue and that might be why you missed some things the op, ccp wrangler, said. take a moment to relax and read the op with particular attention to short term and mid term comments. you'll find them in the second and third paragraphs.windjammerp.s. it isn't that you're losing the argument. you've already lost."
"you know the funny thing ki an is that i have the same view of this as you do to a t. just because the game mechanic existed doesn't meant that it was meant to be utilized in that fashion. this kind of stuff happens all the time in games and it is happening now. it has always been there yes but as many have pointed out it has become a common tactic that isn't being used for the sole purpose of fighting the logistical elements of .0 corps. to this end i don't agree with it and thats why i support the removal of players from npc corps that can't be war dec'd. as i said, put them in the militia's and then you pirates can fight your way into high sec and blast away at them all day if it were my system. imagine being able to take anything you want into caldari space and kill, loot, and plunder the crap out of people not smart enough to get in a player corp where they run the legitimate risk of being war dec'd.so i want to show you what a whine is so you recognize one.omg i just got suicide ganked!!!how can ccp not realize this? how can any sane person not acknowledge this? why have the mechanics not been changed before.caving in to pirates?all i did was take your whine and reverse the statement to support the carebear. both are in fact whines but since its coming from you i am sure you think it is nothing but a rose scented breeze right? you know that saying i am talking about? some people think their.......don't stink?"
"couldn't disagree with you more. it's unbalanced now and this thread's op acknowledges that in the first paragraph. really......you should read it. ccp also says in that first paragraph that \"they do not plan to remove suicide ganking completely\". doesn't sound like they beleive these changes will, in your words, \"unbalance things completely\".you're right. a hulk pilot is not some new player without any cash. and since he's not a new player he already knows he's not 100% safe anywhere in eve. however, it's ludicrous to say that some solo griefer in a max insured t1 ship should be able to push the biggest and most advanced t2 mining barge around in high sec whenever he feels like it with little pain to the griefer. you can't even insure the hulk for its real market price.oh please.you're telling me the scenario i described  paragraph 3, post 108, page 4 of this thread  can be equated with pain? man the pirate/griefer laughs himself sick to and from the bank on that one. high sec has \"that little bit of risk\" just fine without some solo artist being able to kill you and profit despite concord.in these cases concord is not working as intended and the situation needs some substantial tweaking. read the op and see just how thoroughly ccp agrees with that sentiment. i know you're really enjoying this forum war and all, but....dude.....the war is over.time to find a new thing for yourself.regards,windjammer"
"-jihadswarm. is there some other proof necessary? i could go find the earlier post where someone explained how he has to try to convince one of his friends to stay in game after a pointless suicide gank, and point out that i've had to do the same, but you"
"this"
"again i agree that removing insurance is stupid only because its impossible to truly sort the accidents from the intentional. i would like to point out though that any dedicated mission runner in a raven or anything else  using a sb or ecm burst is a moron and deserves to take a hit on his/her ship for using those in missions and to their sec status.however you also mentioned that driving dedicated players away from games kills them when in fact dedicated players are what cause most of the grief for the games developer by finding and continually exploiting the mechanics of the game rather than just playing it to fill a role. ganking as a tactic to reduce the logistical footprint of a .0 corp because of an already broken game mechanic...perfectly fine. ganking because its funny....well its funny to bored people who don't enjoy the game as it is but the mechanics in the game were never intended to allow people to randomly destroy players for no reason. it has always been a risk/reward system and fighting anything outside that system is fine by me. if your ganking as a tactical application for reaching a goal, fine, but a lot of people are doing it because it boost's there ego that they can kill unsuspecting, afk, macro, or noob players rather than actual pvp'ers. in real life, which quit deluding yourself the game is intended to have very realistic aspects, anyone who kills just to kill and is caught is locked away. your clone would simply be deactivated in this world and that would be that. however, as a game mechanic, pirates are allowed to redeem themselves instead of being permanently locked out of the system. not that pirates would be locked out of eve, its just that you would be forced to \"swim with the sharks\" down in .0 and low sec. instead a pirates actions are not permanent which is a game mechanic that allows them to redeem themselves if they get bored or pushed out by alliances.i personally think a great mechanic missing from the game is a way for pirates to function as pirates instead of griefers that hide behind legitimate actions. gate camping is a legitimate defense but its also pirates ganging up on people. nothing wrong with it until every gate going into .0 and low sec has a dozen pirates camping it and then it gets the nerf hammer. so the pirates start suicide ganking and its nearing the hammer as well. i would like to see pirates be able to align themselves with npc pirate corps either threw joining an the npc corp or the npc corp having its own militia's. even having a few sovereign systems of their own that gives pirates a fairly safe base of operations. then give pirates access to financial records, not exact records but approximates that show how wealthy a corporation is so they have legitimate targets to pirate that they can war dec from .0 or low sec. this makes empire corps face a dilemma as the carebears brave enough to fight probably wont go chasing you into the heart of the sansha nation while they would not really have a safe place. the one limitation is people in the npc corp would not be allowed into high sec simply because they are an active gurista instead of a privateer for the gurista's.i feel the biggest requirement is to get players out of the npc corps, that is currently the biggest exploit in the game and much more detrimental than suicide ganking. which is why i wouldn't allow a pirate to go into high sec if he/she is in an npc pirate corp."
"well, if they would just give out bpos instead  but for a larger rp/isk value  it would be even better, actually..."
"it's common knowledge that alliances have a wide range of numbers, which is why looking at the big picture is what we need to do. you can say fw is good for alliance a, but you know quite well alliance b would use the same situation much differently. you have to keep in mind all scenarios.i do realize this, however i refer to my above comment. it really just doesn't matter trying to segregate the different kinds of alliances. alliance conflicts are best kept in 0.0 and sovereign space. even if there are alliances with good intentions to use fw, there are those that will abuse it.it's not the 'big fish' scenario, it's the 'big abuse' scenario. i could care less if corp a left an alliance and joined a militia with 500 people. if they had the standings to do so, more power to them. but what we don't want are corps in alliances deciding to fight other corps alliances on the fw militia field. can you imaging if 2 corps from two hostiles alliances joined the same militia? it all leads to abuse and exploits, probably some we can't even think of.i agree that you don't have to be in an alliance to be a pvp pro. but we all know some of the best, most powerful, most prepared, most skilled, and wealthiest are in alliances. sure there are exceptions to the rule, but the truth is one alliance inside fw can make or break a militia."
"i have to laugh at jade here, because his alliance is war decking corps in fw to disrupt it and prove to ccp that they can do nothing to stop alliance interferance. my corp has been war decked, no biggie as most of us are seasoned. but, we lost new fw pilots because of the sf interferance. they just quit completely, not even going back to the militia.how are we supposed to help players, new and old, intrested if the great jade is allowed to end run around things and do as they please.frankly, i think corps in the fw should be immune to war decks from corps or alliances outside of fw. to stop corps from joining to avoid a war deck simply do not allow a corp under a war deck to join fw or they just carry the war deck with them.another idea is, since the militia is an alliance of sorts that war deck should transfer over to the militia. make it where they have to deal with the navy and all pilots of a militia, not just one corp.if an entity like sf can just war deck fw corps on all sides and their leader holding a position as they do you might as well just allow alliances to join. frankly, i can't believe ccp would allow a high ranking member of the community to disrupt a new tool that was designed to allow new players and old player to experience pvp.yes, i know the corp can just disband and just rejoin the militia. but that's not the point, some of these corps are in exsistance to allow new players with out the standings to join fw and get a taste."
"i also laugh at jade, given the amusing abuses of the wardec system. that said, we can discuss wardecs in its own topic thread.there are already persons and corporations representing large 0.0 alliances present in fw. some of these are new corps created for the purpose, some like smx are empire-side reflections of an alliance. these persons or corporations bring badly needed experience, organizational professionalism, and money into the pvp practice ground that fw was meant to be. you already have vastly experienced and sp-heavy corporations  including more than a few pirate corps  joining fw because of the richness of the target environment. the majority of--for example--gallente kill successes come from their gangs of very expensive and effective nano ships.permitting corps within alliances to join fw--if they have the appropriate standings--changes nothing. not the logistics chain. not the participation of players  via primary or alt characters . nothing. except you engage a large pool of persons, including many in empire, who have not cared to abandon their alliance assests and friends for a few more war targets.to the content of this proposal i suggest only that corps be permitted to join not only the same faction as their alliance-mates, but also the \"allied\" faction. minmatar and gallente. caldari and amarr. --krum"
"dang, here is an issue where i wish it was possible to give a thump down.i am far from convinced that the majority of players want alliance involvement in fw."
"exactly. that works both sides. keeping alliances out of fw is preventing a large number of alliances from joining fw for reasons that are targeted at a much smaller number of alliances. the big picture here says that something is terribly wrong in this \"solution.\"you are pre-supposing again that all alliances are about 0.0 and sovereignty. and once again, only 15% of the alliances hold sovereignty. if you want to keep sovereignty-holding alliances out of fw, then do that, and disallow corps from alliances that hold sovereignty.you mean they might war-dec each other, as it has happened before in the gallente and minmatar militia? as i said, you already have these politics.i disagree. some of the best pvp pilots are in corporations such as 0utbreak, atomic battle penguins, invicta.,  sorry for leaving out someone's corp, there are lots of good corps , d00m.  they were in a militia for a few weeks , etc. there are also good pvp pilots in alliances.one good corp inside fw can make or break a militia. that is the case right now. keeping corps within alliances out of fw does not solve this \"problem\" at all.and just to reiterate it: there is a lot of uncertainty and fear about what might happen if corps in alliances could join fw. while being afraid of it, people all too easily forget that corps within alliances are not that much different from corps outside of alliances. you are completely ignoring the large amount of really awesome and large pvp corps that are already in fw, that haven't broken fw yet with the fears brought up here - and that those you argue should be kept out are just a minority of alliances, sometimes not even in alliances, and that more specialized rulings than \"no corp in an alliance\" would help your goals much, much more."
"but where is the difference between whole alliance joining to fw or all corporations joining to fw? if they decide to do so they need just join every corp to same fw militia and done"
"so jade, are you saying that if an alliance signs up for fw their industrial corps should be allowed to run around all of empire? well of course they shouldn't be allowed to run around gallente space if they are the industrial wing of an alliance that is fighting for the caldari. this just in from gallente officials \"we didn't want that omber anyways.\" thats a disadvantage that should be weighed before joining fw anyways... as for the rp alliances, well it sucks for them, and all alliances, hell i want in. not all of us are interested in 0.0 and are we defining experienced lowsec pvpers who sign up for a faction greifers now? and 0.0 has strategic locations, rare moon minerals and i suppose the asteroid beltstoo bad the static complexes are gone"
"dev commentary has two obvious problems.yes, and?why would this be bad?the situation wouldn't last long, there would be angst, someone would get shot, people would be kicked, loot would be stoled. this is just part of the everyday milleu of life in 0.0. plus, it would help reduce the influence of the biggest alliances, since it would be harder to maintain order within them.this makes no sense.you set up fw war as a precursor to 0.0, but then build a chinese wall between the two so that players and corps can't interact. genius.this locks people into fw because their entire corp has to switch to 0.0 on the same day, you can't have people drift between the two.if you want fw to be pvp/0.0 lite, then you need to let everyone play the whole game, then use risk limits  limit numbers and ship types in complexes  and reward limits in fw to keep it as the game for newer players."
"hmm, i suppose the more important issue is why the hell is fw considered noob friendly/introductory pvp?if anything i would want to join a corp in an alliance and start pvping with them then in one of the lollagfest caracal blobs"
"this is my opinion but i also think alliance should not be able to joint fw.matt  ccp  is right.jade constantine  csm  talk about a vote saying a majority of player welcome alliance to join fw. i myself never heard about this vote.is it sure player who vote are representative to all players in eve ?how many votes ? how many involved in an alliance and how many without a 0.0 alliance ? how many alts giving 2+ voices to a same player.does all csm members think the same ?for this point i think ccp have a better judgement : fw is very new and nobody have a long term experience on this feature.alliances may have a very deep impact on fw : this will for example introduce the capitals battle fleet blobs in the fw.a thing that some pvpers don't whant to see anymore.fw is a chance to pvp without capitals crazyness you can now see in 0.0."
"i like ccp's approach to this. let factional warfare have a chance to do what ccp designed it to do. be an introduction to pvp for those who haven't experienced it and, at least for now, keep alliances out of it.i understand jades role play view and desire to be part of a shiny new piece of game content, but i think he needs to leave this one alone for now. i'd rather he offer suggestions for additions to the 0.0 battles, which would be similar to fw mechanisms, than intrude with his and others alliances into fw.as far as jades allegation that his view is in the majority on this issue? i beleive that he is incorrect. the majority he speaks of was a vote of nine people on the csm, a meeting who's minutes have yet to be published. though the csm is elected by a vote of subscribers, there are many within their constituency who did not vote yet still deserve unbiased representation. if you're new to the game and unschooled in pvp, you probably don't have much idea what the csm is much less know to vote. also, those that voted the csm representatives into office do not agree with every single position that their representative supports. that's politics. you vote for the person that you think is going to support most of your postions. you never find a person that agree's with all your postions and you never find a person to vote for where you support all of theirs.jade also seems to feel that allowing alliances into fw is a done deal simply because of a 6/3 vote in favor of it. i would remind him and readers of these posts that those things the csm escalates to ccp are recomendations. not law ccp must act upon.best regards,windjammer"
"yes."
"this ^"
"sign me up for the closed beta. i assume this a 'native' client being discussed? remember though guys blizzard and others don't even get close to ccp in attempting to satisfy what is still less than 10% of the total market.i do how ever echo that ccp try and sort their plans out and give us a bit more information."
"since ccp is working with the guys at cedega  crossover  i believe this client si like the one we have now but with premium content ? + premium content- no native client"
"yes - because eve is using directx it can't simply be rewritten to use opengl so that linux benefit from this. thus, eve will still need a wrapper like cedega/wine around it to work under linux and i believe this won't change soon tm "
"sign me up for this beta, too. i'm currently running the windows version of eve using wine - and the need for a native linux client is very clear."
"i don't see the problem here, you don't like them don't use them, same as with implants."
"there's no real reason to remove them. the two biggest arguments are that they are mandatory for new players and that they are a waste of time.the whole point of the learning skills originally was to give the player the choice between short-term and long-term skill prioritisation. since this is a choice, they are obviously not mandatory for new players, as that would be a contradiction. they are only mandatory for minmaxers.if someone considers them a waste of time, obviously they should prioritize short term skilling and forget the learning skills. keep in mind that the total time to train them all to a decent level will eventually be overshadowed by later skills. they are only daunting if you train them right off the bat.some people are incapable of making or understanding this choice, which is where the idea that they are mandatory or that you are 'losing sp' if you don't train them comes from. well, the lowest common denominator is not a good target when balancing the complexity of the game.there are two good reasons to keep them. first, it requires no work to leave them as is. second, the fallacies generated by people who don't understand how these skills fit into the greater scheme of things are a constant source of lulz."
"thumb down for a bad idea.losing learning skills = homogenization and dumbing down of eve.better idea would be to establish another server where a new player starts with 10 - 20 mil sp and trains at 4 or 5 times the rate on tranquility. the fps/instant gratification kids could go there and reduce our server load."
"this was actually the suggestion i'm most doubtful about, to be honest. i would really like mission setups to get away from the cap-sustaining permatank + damage formula to something that would require a mix of both tanking, damage, electronic warfare, speed, and player piloting skill, and cutting the npcs in half an replacing them with more powerful ones does the exact opposite. however, given how limited ccp's time is to devote to one particular improvement, i tried to keep my ideas in the baby step range so if supported they might show up in 6 months, not two years. i've got some more grandiose ideas for pve content that includes running blockades, \"stealth\" missions that require electronic warfare, escort missions requiring logistics, and other things but those would take significantly longer to implement  and write up, tbh ."
"getting 60 days for the price i got 90 days is i don't like running missions so much, generating an extra 1.8 bil a year just sucks  and that is with lovely discounted gtcs from alliance mates  i want to go back to -10, but that doesn't work out so when i'm buying gtcs. some days i have gotten very lucky. some days isn't enough to pay for gtcs"
"i would rather have the 90d back"
"and this, i will probably be keeping 2 accounts active, and one training a month long skill, and not active for a month  20-30days ... i have lots of month long skills. looks like i will be doing carrier, dread, fighters, capital energy turret 5, and sentry drone op 5. in the next year or so"
"yeah... bring the 30 and 90 days back...give people the options... and yeah, we dont need to copy wow.... although i can see how the gtc issue is related to the euro/conversion issue...hence the new 60 days price..  but yeah, a happy customer will bring in more customers..."
"other mmos are not 'premium products'? that's a pretty subjective statement to make."
"and the creditcard payment method is still the same price as it was previous to the change."
"i made a point during this meeting to ask for at least 30-day timecards to return, since they seem to be the most commonly used."
"as one of those that bought gtc's to sell for isk  i used it to buy a freighter  i can tell you that i was starting to wonder how low the price  in isk  a gtc would have to get before people would stop selling them...now we have a 60 day card that costs us more, but sells for less... again, lowering the reasons we have to buy and sell them. as the people like me stop offering up gtc's to our fellow players, how many of those players will find alternate ways to pay... or will they move on to other games they may not like as much as well, but can afford to play.i also worry that those that currently use gtc's to finance their play  unlike me who used it to finance a special purchase  will decide it just costs too much...but the 60 day cards are awesome... really..."
"for a premium product, you sure do have a lot of bugs!i've already let one account  out of three  expire and have no plans on resubscribing it under current conditions. i'll probably let another expire and not resubscribe. so you gain a little extra money from a single subscription costing more, but lose a lot more money from losing two subscriptions. bright move, that!30d and 90d gtcs should be brought back."
"/signed"
"supporting, even though this should have been looked at and addressed long ago. op makes a good overview of some of the issues, and i miss the interceptor fights in which 6km/s was a good speed."
"yes, and i cannot stress enough that it detracts from the flavor of the game."
"an excellent and concise summation of the problem."
"the mere fact that so many players have taken to flying around exclusively in polycarbed, overdriven recons and hacs  with the occasional falcon or sabre  at the expense of the more traditional mixed shiptype gangs tells the story pretty well in itself. they're not doing it because they really like the ship models."
"maybe the problem is the majority of ships that go really slow.nerfing speed will utterly suck for everyone, if slower ships were somewhat faster they'd be on a better competitive level. someone think of the children i blame the liberals.. oh wait this isn't that simpsons episode when everyone is about to riot.i know fighting speed based ships all the time gets really boring but it is better than everyone being a snail when you consider how much distance you can travel in every solar system when doing things like mining/missioning/exploration/pvp.if the op is calling for a speed nerf it will nuke every ship not just ones fit out entirely for speed.take nosferatu for example, where extremely effective more than they were intended. after the nerf i told people i had over 50 heavy diminishing power drain systems in one station, someone literally screamed at me to reprocess them for minerals."
"agility, fix agility and you fix the top end nano problem while still allowing speed tanks to exist."
"personal attacks are not permitted on the forums. ~saint"
"eve is for pvp and not rp so quit this \"boi\" stuff.as if it had any impact on the game in any form or fashion.next thing you know you will actaully be supporting interactive storylines, reasonably logical a.i. and the inclusion of depth into this video game.for gods sake just stop.the chocolate covered thump of inaction is down."
"complete waste of time."
"i would like more room to, 2 - 3 times more should be sufficient for me."
"this and eve mails!"
"though i'd be more interested in bios not losing their formatting while being edited, unless that's been fixed since i left."
"if it was a strain on some resources implement it as a subscription or purchasable thing for those in need of a longer bio or mail option.yes another isk sink."
"bring back the long bio"
"i support this"
"also longer ship names!"
"longer bio, longer ship name space, longer eve-mails dammit !/signed in triplicate with cherry on top."
"give me ma biospace back! :d"
"ok, i misunderstood your proposition. that round-like thing seems doable imho. it could even bring people to rp...but it may go against the sandbox-make your own story philosophy of ccp: they decide an evolution and we pick up a binary choice, the story is not 'growing' from players action...maybe an alternative is the same thing, but without the players knowing it. a news story just pop up saying 'slave freed' or 'supply broken' according to the evolution of the war, but without any prearranged choice. if its clear that those story stem from the actions of the last days, it gives an incentive to the war  'we are on the news!'  without a straight path being laid in front of the players...in fact the main thing is that until now, the 'capsuleers' news feed  which include fw news  is together with 0.0 news and separated from the 'empires' news feed , which are the one with storyline/background things. just stopping that discrimination would be a good thing...anyway, from what i gathered of cpp plan, bridging the gap between empire and 0.0 is one of their aim, so i would be kinda optimist on that one, no?"
"problems with this are...1  what do you do if outcomes on other servers are different.2  large parts of the player base are arbitarily excluded from fw at this time."
"i guess suck it up and hire some additional chinese story writers. allow alliance corps to join fw. csm has already met and voted 6-3 in favour of this fix. lets hope we can get ccp to roll it out pronto."
"i've come to love the little readout option."
"why not."
"sounds good to me."
"ding!not just a percentage and absolution readouts, but also a use/recharge"
"very simple, very usefull!"
"simple idea, easy fix. should probably be included under general ui improvements, though."
"sounds good, considering you need 95% to bring a module online... and i know i've received error messages \"you are currently at 94.5%\" before, which is irritating."
"yes, this shouldn't hard at all to implement, so no excuses ccp!"
"agreed. especially because the shield/armor/graphics are much easier to quickly read because they have a single bar, while the capacitor has that odd circle thing with multiple bars."
"yes"
"to be frank - whilst the proposed issues/changes to black ops are useful, they still leave the ship roleless and underhanded in combat. the jump range and fuel bay isnt the base concern, its more so the ships have no true role in pvp.a suggested fix has been that of creating them as 'bs force recons'. has been discussed at great lengths in many topics, so wont spam anymore. but yes - whilst its good to see them being looked into, scan res, whole 'unable to warp cloaked' and so on gives them a whole variety of issues  let alone holding no advantage in most scenarios vs their t1 variants. "
"why is it that the linux client issue s  are missing from the list?csm - ccp meeting 001 - 0034 linux clientafter a delay of 7 months, all we know is that a beta on a better version of the client is going to occur \"at some point in the future\". now i'm not sure anymore what having \"official support\" from ccp on linux and mac does mean... : "
"it's frustrating to see that ui fixes and improvements are not the number 1 prioritory, whatever else gets changed, the ui is always there and it's how we play the game, and everyone has to deal with it. sigh."
"thanks for posting this. now i know what is going on. i never really kept up-to-date with the csm."
"how did jump bridges and cyno jammers make it to high priority? i thought escalation of that was voted down in a csm meeting.windjammer"
"here is the original list repeated with links to official thread as best as i could find them.if i find official threads for the remaining issues, i will edit my post to include them as well."
"not constructive - navigator"
"a friend of mine offhandedly mentioned this post as we sat discussing eve before kung fu panda started... so i thought i'd come by and read up on it.  i've been out of touch with the game for the last month, so i haven't had time to peruse the new csm forum. i'm not sure how anyone could thoroughly read this thread and not understand the problem. the excuses given by the csms are pathetic. within a page or two of reading this thread it should be as clear as crystal  for those not familiar with the ship  that the nighthawk has needed a pg increase since the day it hit the server.anyone arguing that it doesn't need an mwd is out of touch with reality... or only wants the ship balanced for pve. anyone arguing that one should use rigs or implants to accomodate fits doesn't realize that other command ship pilots do not need to do such things.i hope the csm gets this issue right this time around."
"reading the minutes where the nighthawk is discussed shows me that some of the csm members simply have no business being there. you people seem to forget that you're elected to bring up things with ccp that we the players have raised concern with. the cope out some of you used is simply unacceptable. that was not a vote of 'we do not see a problem with the nighthawk', it was a 'well we decided we do not want to cover these kinds of things' and voted it down.instances like that make me glad you don't actually have any real authority and are just there to voice to ccp the concerns of the players. bring it up for another vote, with the evidence in mind, and without your pathetic excuses to disregard what many see as a serious issue.quick reminder for you guys:brutix -> astarte+300 pg+15 cpuferox -> nighthawk-290 pg+80 cpuenough of your crap. do your job, or step down and make room for people who actually understand what their role is as a part of the csm. i hope ccp implements a way for us to lobby to them to have people removed if they're believed to be working in their own interests, or half-assing it, just to help curb the harm that such people will do with their actions."
"word!  aka this!!! either that or create a third state, as this would affect things like armor plates, cap rechargers. it would be nicer for when i have several ships unpackaged, and oh shoot, which ones did i rig again? and even a show info -> fittings tab, see what is fit."
"if you want to improve the contract system, implement a search feature. thats it. id love to be able to go gee. i want a drake and instead of the current system of hey contracts, tell me every freaking ship in the region being contracted i can tell the contract system to go no stupid, not amar shuttle, i want a drakeyou can already make contracts private, you can already set your sell/buy price, and filter out the riffraff make they system in place usable."
"there is a search feature, i use it almost every day."
"we have people who make us ships and sell them at a discount. no we cant buy them at a whim, and it takes a day or two, but hell i have 10-20 something battleships on hand at all time. its rather easy to do and all it takes is a contract... i can make 9 contracts and well that took me about 2 hours to train the skill to level 2. you are in an alliance, i'm sure you have some sort of logistics to get stuff done. 2 is a bit of an issue."
"to take load from the database and make the market faster i sugest changing the max time for orders in the market, 90 days is way to long.gemini"
"up the time on contract availability, lower the associated costs with setting them up.30 days for a contract, and skills to reduce the costs of setting contracts up."
"this seems to be the exact problem i am having at the moment.we have lots of corps who now use the helpmymission channel, so we have toyed with the idea of setting up an alliance. the problem is, we would have wanted an alliance that would work more like a trade alliance cartel type of system.the aim would be to allow people in corps / alliance that you want to be able to see which things are available to them at discounted/cost prices etc.this would in theory be quite easy to implement, with a button saying alliance market or something like that, and the option of having it as an alliance trade when putting it up on the market in the first place.this would be a very useful feature in my opinion, and would be useful all over eve."
"glad to hear we are on the same page."
"it's no wonder that the forum nukes database and loadbalancerseach new request creates a session if there is not already onethis is a waste of resources  you should only need a session when someone is logged in asp creates session cookies with different names, these allow multiple session cookies to exist  which breaks the cookie amount limit and can prevent users from logging in when no new cookie can be created in the client storage restarting a session uses more resources if you need to check 20+ asp session cookies if any is still validloadbalancers need a way to reassign a user to the same application server if session storage is not shared  if it is shared there is no reason for sticky sessions unless you process uploaded files in multiple steps also there are different strategies to assign users to application servers  some of them don't require no space on the balancer at all so a simple fix would be:- stop automaticly starting a session  only restart if cookie with id is present and start only when needed - use a unique name for session cookies not aspsessionidabcdefg = value- optional increase the session timeout  you will have much less sessions after solving the first two issues "
"fix'd, amirite?"
"haha, this is so true. i don't know why ccp is using asp either, it doesn't make sense for scalability."
"i'm not a techie, and i can't comment on all the details here intelligently, but from my experience with other forum software specifically phpbb  run by people who really weren't techies either, i can't imagine ccp has any excuse. take the existing free software, skin it to match the eve site, and make the user database and avatars equal to the game's user list, updated automatically every downtime. it's copylefted, so you'd have to release source code, but that shouldn't be a real issue, given that your only real amendments would be to skin it which a lot of fan sites would probably like , a bit of code to transfer data between your user db and your forum db, and another bit well, probably a lot  of code to import all the data from these old forums. none of that is really a trade secret or any kind of security risk, as far as i can tell. and if i'm wrong on that point, there's plenty of other forum software out there - i just named the most popular. that would solve the issue of login times i'm not sure i've ever had to relog on a forum i used at least occasionally , post length limits and the consequent need for 20 \"reserved\" posts on the most useful threads out there, the inability to create a separate csm forum, and a pile of other issues. and i've seen it used on boards as busy as this one with few issues, so i don't imagine scaleability is a problem. perhaps i haven't outlined the optimal solution, but from everything i know, it's a far better solution than the current one, and would take next to no time, effort, or money to implement. it could just as easily have been done when the game was in beta, of course, but there's no use crying over spilt milk. also, on the topic of the igb being slated for demolition, i'll just say two things. 1  thank you, oh god, thank you.2  firefox."
"the old, old argument that corps who have stations with research slots and run them as businesses would be penalised by the addition of extra npc slots has no credibility for me - such corps  and other manufacturing corps  routinely clog up npc slots in order to force people to use their services or exclude competitors, and unless steps are taken to prevent this  which is impossible due to alts , the need to allow people to conduct research without putting themselves at risk of scammery is, imo, more important.new players are essentially excluded from profitable manufacturing for at least the first month of their career - which means free trials have no chance. this needs to be fixed.personally, i would rather see a system which forces people to make more sensible use of current slots than the addition of more slots. perhaps ccp would like to comment on just how much slot-abuse there seems to be at the moment - how much evidence is there of slots being locked up by corps who run pos research businesses, and how many slots are being used to trim the cost of a battleship by 3 trit?there is little disincentive to over-research a blueprint at the moment - the time to conduct research is dominated by the delay waiting for the slot, not the time taken doing the actual research, so you might as well schedule 100 cycles as the 10 that are really needed. attacking this over-use of slots seems to me to be a potentially fruitful approach.one possible solution, or step toward a solution, would be to limit the number of cycles that can take place in a single job. if each job was limited to 5 or 10 cycles, with the number perhaps dependant on the type of blueprint, and maybe increased by a skill, this would at least cycle research slots more quickly, allowing people to get at least some research done within a realistic time frame. it should discourage the over-researching of blueprints. the limit would not apply to pos slots."
"how about ability to rent more npc slots if you pay for an office in the respective station ?the slots per station are probably static, so this would be a problem, but one could rent services from the npc corporation with the rent, where they can request priority on a job.f.e i rent an office with me and copy slots service on top of the usual corp hangar. this allows me to use up to x slots of each type in some limited cycle and i pay for the job also as usual  on top of the increased rent .this would become more expensive as more offices rent slots. so whoever comes too late has to pay extra or move somewhere else. naturaly lowsec slots would be cheaper than highsec  scale based on sec status . there will be a limit on total slot amount you can rent but you can divide them into the types your need:10 slots total, you select 6 me and 4 copy  as an example .there are some more issues that need to be cleared about this, but i hope you get the general idea."
"given that me resarch over a given value is practically worthless, why not just introduce an me cap of, say, 25, for all bpos. this would- stop slots being taken up by people who dont realise the extra me is pointless.- stop people just over-researching because the huge wait time is the biggest time factor.- hinder corporate slot blockers who would have to keep buying new bpos  which would get expensive as to block up a slot with the me cap in place would effectively requires a new ship bpo "
"the solution for public labs is easy. allow materials to be taken from the personal  or corporate, ie: not the pos owner's  hangar, with all of the outputs going to that hangar. costs will be from out of the personal wallet  if using a public pos + personal hangar  or the corporate divisional wallet  if using your corp's hangar to research from .no need to go to the pos other than fueling.simple, eh?edit: if the labs / pos is offlined or destroyed, the bpo would return to the hangar it came out from, like they do currently. as far as cost reimbursement, everything comes at a risk."
"can you please explain this further? by \"local hangar\", do you mean a hangar at the starbase itself? or do you mean a hangar in a corporation office in a station?if it's the latter, then i see it only technically impossible if you're not a member of a corporation. corporations can rent an office in any station in that system, which then grants them the local hangar required for this.if it's the former, then i suggest creating a new structure, \"public storage array\". it can be selected from the job creation process window as a valid location from which to pull the required science & industry resources and to which the finished products can be placed. this array is specifically designed for public use of research and non-capital tech-1 manufacturing arrays.the structure itself has a 0m3 cargo capacity and does not allow anything to be placed in it. to use this structure, you have to \"lock\" your blueprint in place. that is, a new checkbox is added to the job creation process, \"public industry escrow\". this checkbox only appears when there is a public storage array attached to the starbase from which you have selected the assembly or research line. when selected and created, this job does several things.first, it does not actually create the job in that it does not extend the wait time of the assigned assembly line. it does, however \"lock\" the price of the job, your isk, and your blueprint. details on this will be described further below.secondly, it counts towards the respective job count for which you're creating the escrow, regardless of whether or not existing jobs are in escrow. for example, if you have mass production trained to level 4, then you can create a maximum of 5 manufacturing jobs -- whether in escrow or not.thirdly, an \"automatic\" bookmark is created  similar to how there's \"automatic\" bookmarks for missions, one for the mission's agent's home, one for any combat encounters, and one for pickup/delivery station  for the public storage array. this is to make sure that you are able to locate the structure so that you can place your items in it.fourthly, creating a public industry escrow modifies your personal or corporation hangar attributes  depending on if you created the job using your personal hangar or your corporation's hangar  for the starbase's attached public storage array. the first attribute modified is the size of the cargo capacity for your hangar: it is now changed to the required m3 for the job you created in escrow. the second attribute modified is the items in which can be placed into your hangar in the public storage array: everything is still disallowed, except for the items required by the job.so if you're manufacturing a raven, then you can only place tritanium, pyerite, mexallon, isogen, nocxium, zydrine, and megacyte into it. if, on the other hand, you're manufacturing a mobile large warp disruptor i, then you can only place tritanium, pyerite, mexallon, isogen, nocxium, zydrine, megacyte, warp scrambler i, and electronic parts in it. on the research side of things, most t1 blueprints will still disallow everything for me and pe research. if, for example, you're attemping to research the me level of a mobile large warp disruptor i blueprint, then the public storage array will allow the placing of reports and consumer electronics into it.finally, you can only create one escrow per public assembly array. this is to prevent racking up the m3 available in a single location."
"you now have the knowledge neceessary to create a job in escrow, how to locate the required public storage array, and how to place the items into the public storage array. let's assume you've done that. now what?when you created the public industry escrow, i stated that your blueprint has been \"locked\". it has been removed from the location it was in and has instead moved to the magic land of wherever science & industry moves blueprints while they're being used in a job. if you cancel your job, your blueprint will return to the location it was at. if the starbase is destroyed, your blueprint will return to the location it was at. your blueprint is safe.when you created the public industry escrow, the price of the research line was locked in place and your isk taken to pay for the line. the isk is in limbo. perhaps it doesn't need to be, but that's how i envisioned it. in any case, if the starbase owner decides to change the prices of the research lines after you've created the public industry escrow, nothing changes. if they increased the line price, you still pay the same price you had agreed to. if they reduced the price, you're getting shafted.and i stated that the industry line did not have its wait time increased yet. now that all of the required materials are placed in the public storage array, you need to open up your science & industry window and locate your escrowed job. you'll find that its activity is stated as \"escrow\". this is basically the same as \"pending\" -- no research is being done. you can still pull your materials out of the public storage array and cancel the job. by the way, if you cancel the job without pulling your materials out, all of the materials will be forfeit and returned to the starbase owner  they will be placed in the starbase owner's \"deliveries\" section . so make sure you've pulled everything out beforehand!once you've found your escrowed job, select it and click the \"start job s \" button. at this point, the isk is paid to the starbase's owning corporation and the industry line's wait time is extended. the materials vanish from the public storage array, the public storage array's available m3 is reset to 0  for your hangar , and the public storage array's acceptable items is reset to nothing  again, for your hangar .at this point, you can cancel the job just like any other job. the industry wait time will not be reduced. the isk will not be returned to you. the materials simply vanish without a trace. and no finished product is returned to you. your blueprint, however, is returned to you.or, you can let the job run until completion. when the job has completed, you can finish it just like any other job. the finished materials for any manufacturing process will be placed in your hangar of the public storage array. your blueprint will return to the location from which the job was created.now on to the downsides. what does this do for the starbase's owning corporation? well obviously, they have to attach and online yet another structure and pay for the fuel for it. if the starbase is attacked and goes into reinforced, the public storage array goes offline and no one can place new materials into it, nor can they start any escrowed jobs for which they've already placed all of their materials  error message stating that the structure is offline .if the owning corporation decides to move the tower, they will need to make sure that the public storage array is empty before they will be able to unanchor the control tower  under current game mechanics . tbh this could be fixed by allowing corporations to unanchor control towers whether or not there are anchored structures nearby, but that is an argument for a different topic.and if anyone destroys the public storage array, normal loot drop mechanics will apply to all materials in it. blueprints will return to the stations like normal.gg, the end, problem solved."
"also, it should be noted that public storage arrays can be set to \"corporation\" or \"alliance\" use to prevent public use. this would encourage corporation or alliance members to use the corporation's assets for personal or alliance gain.obviously you won't be able to create a public industry escrow if the public storage array is offline or if it's not set to allow you to use it.you could have multiple public storage arrays attached to a starbase and simply search for the first available one  online and matches usage filters  when creating a public industry escrow. this would encourage having multiple escrowed jobs  read: multiple jobs for a single starbase from a single client .also, make sure to remind the customer that their materials will vanish if the public storage array is destroyed before the job is started, and that the entire job may vanish if the research/manufacturing array is destroyed. if the public storage array is destroyed, but the manufacturing/research array stays anchored to a nearby tower, then it needs to be possible to redirect the finished product to a new public storage array.and finally, the public storage array needs to be anchored inside the bubble to prevent the starbase's owning corproation from simply killing the structure in an attempt to gain free materials. so to make sure that people can still access it without the starbase password, it needs to have a rather large maximum operational distance. 50km is probably good."
"if you add more slots, maybe limit their use by standing. so people can't just spam all of them and instead need to invest time and effort for less frequented slots and it would also put more significance to the more unused npc corporations."
"+1 to akita t public labs idea."
"i do not beleive that a modest increase in the number of npc station slots is going to impact the pos research business to any appreciable degree. it might make the que times a bit shorter, but there will still be a longer wait at the npc station than at the pos station. the same people who don't want to wait now, won't want to wait then and the pos researchers will not be effected to any significant degree, if at all.regards,windjammer"
"if i had my way, xaen would've been on ccp's payroll years ago. my wrist probably wouldn't be throbbing right now from eve's hostile user interface."
"right now you can do pretty much anything you need to do by right clicking the target of your action. don't change that while adding all this fluff. it's nice."
"when i read that ui improvements are being considered, the first thing that came to my mind was the fact that \"trash it\" is placed directly next to \"activate ship\", which is basically a disaster waiting to happen. you mis-clicked once to get to the trash confirmation window, and it's not hard enough to mis-click again and confirm your choice to destroy your largest investment for no gain.all that really needs to be done here is to move the \"trash it\" menu item so that it is not directly adjacent to activate ship. that, and hopefully add another layer of confirmation, preferably with a small timer, if it's a ship that's being trashed.that's my idea. i've never made this mistake, but i have mis-clicked trash it enough times to make me uneasy about this particular feature.edit: one other xaen-like idea that i have to bring up is, when you set a module to autorepeat and autoreload, such as a cap booster, it goes until it runs out, then reloads, then stops. it should keep activating until you turn it off, even after reloading. this includes guns."
"please add in keyboard functionality to the ui, right click fine but not everyone is a clickaholic :  keyboard commands or bind keys for functions are possible in many other games, why are you so afraid of this if you have 3 dedicated programmers?"
"this attitude is quite appalling to me. you are the ones who screwed up by not considering our friends with impaired color vision  or, frankly, most of what are considered best practices in human interface design ...and now you say we know you are having a hard time, but we don't care enough to go back and fix our mistakes."
"i have to wade through there once again  i lost track about that thread . my favourite issue is the tactical overlay and it's total unusability for almost anything."
"here's one for you: trails and trajectories. what would this look like? well, remember games like homeworld, where ships leave behind long, winded engine trails? this does not just look good - it adds more intuitively accessible information about speed, location and trajectory to the in-space view. it also let's you know more exactly what they're doing, for example if that inty is orbiting you or manually piloting.this functionality already exists in eve, but it is currently largely useless, and mostly serves as eye candy - i'm talking about engine trails, of course. have you ever thought about adding trails as a ui item, for example when the tactical overlay is switched on? the  ui  trails of far away ships would have to be visible. they could be segmented, so that larger segments indicate higher speed, and shorter segments lower speed. they would fade away after a set time, obviously, so fast ships have long trails and slow ships have short trails... you get the idea, i think.i imagine this would be a very useful ui element for the in-space view, and it also wouldn't add more load to the servers, since it can from my understanding all be calculated with the information already available to the client through the overview.i'm going to have to think more on this, and produce a more elaborate proposal with images, don't i?"
"and what about an xml based  or whatever  based ui and alow players to make their own feature ?/me dream about a solution for setting size and locations off windows by myself."
"yeah, that's the ultimate solution to about 80% of the existing problems. there's some that can only be done by ccp, but for most of it, they should just crack the ui wide open and let us have at it. you need some anti-macro protections, of course, but that's not a wrecking problem. one of the ui coders needs to take a vacation in azeroth and then come back to us, it'd help things immensely."
"aye, it would stink if all of a sudden our universe was invaded by macros who mined or ran courier missions 23/7."
"you can't get rid of them completely, of course, but it'd generally be nice to make it so that it takes a touch of skill to do it. there's a world of difference between it being possible and it being easy."
"i've been saying this since i've been playing. if ccp can't get it right  no one person or company will ever make a ui that is \"right\" for everyone , let the players do it.and please, don't give me the crap that its not possible, it is possible to change the ui from non-xml based to xml based, as eamythic did it with daoc  i believe the trials of atlantis expansion ."
"this may be the problem. why isnt there an ui specialist?admitedly i ask the same questions in my own company, and our interface is also a bit on the random side."
"hahah you do realize that you are getting trolled hardcore, right?"
"currently, people use npc corps as a shield against war decs  though the flawed war dec system is another issue , and some players stay in these corps for far too long. i'd propose that 2 tiers of npc corps get created.tier 1:npc start corp. a player can remain in this corp for 6 months. after that time, they get an evemail from the npc corp head saying they have been promoted to a position in the tier 2 corp to \"help with the war effort\".tier 2: these are still npc corps, but with one major difference. they are considered side-participants in fw. while not a full fw corp, they have an existing history of aggression with a tier 2 corp of the enemy faction, and a permanent war dec between these corps exist. this would fit into the current fw storylines, and encourage pilots to form groups in npc corps or move/create player corp.upon joining the tier 2 corp, their new \"ceo\" will send them an evemail outlining the new risks they face in space, and the options available to pilots in that corp. he/she will highlight how many of their pilots have gone on to officially help the war effort in  insert empire militia name here , or gone on to create highly successful corporations of their own. a tutorial will also pop up that further explains empire war-dec rules and how it pertains to them, and highlight the possibility of creating or joining a player corp if they choose not to participate in this specific war.what this will do:encourage players to move to small player corpsintroduce players to pvpreduce protection to older players in npc corps"
"i like this idea, many will hate it, ccp will dislike it as it will **** off some subscribers with no upside for ccp."
"at the moment, it is not possible to carry a container other than a general freight container filled with modules for a freighter. or for carriers to have ships in them that only have ammunition. id like a reversal. the only way around this is to get a jump freighter and as it stands i dont have 5bn isk to go out and buy one. carriers were the main supply lines for alliances in 0.0 and gave them something to do other than sit around and do nothing.this needs to change and be reverted to previous settings, it allowed smaller corps and alliances to move items and more flexability in a carriers role, which atm is just to get shot at.as far as i can see, the old system made things work smoothly and had a vital role in logistical matters now its a lot more expensive with having to buy hugely expensive freighters and more hassle than their worth.give us back the old system so carriers had a role and were used more often, as they are not used much now, and would remove the utterly suck tags that attach to them."
"i'ld go for this. i'm a fairly new carrier pilot, about 3 months or so. and all i have done is ferry a few ships out of 0.0 when our corp disbanded."
"neat idea. would love to see more work and consideration into it."
"the problem with this is that most of the most annoying mwd ships operate outside web range as it is. also, the web range penalty just looks like a swarm of bugs waiting to happen. but for some varieties of pvp, web resistance would return afterburners to viability. i like this proposal - one of the most sensible plans for an ab buff i've seen yet."
"/signedthis allows for close-combat fighting by smaller ships--as already mentioned this could help fix assault frigates."
"one idea i had, which wasn't too warm welcomed...ab make you faster, by pushing the ship harder.mwd make you faster, by generating the same warp bubble that regular warping does.webs make you slower, by entangling the ship with a modified tractor beam.scramblers throw off the guidance systems, making warpdrive destinations hard to plot.so why couldn't the current system be tweaked a bit.webs affect ab, by providing drag to counter the extra force. but webs would lose their hold and slip off, when an mwd forms the warp bubble around the ship.while a scrambler could possibly inhibit the mwd from locking onto the destination, which may only be a few meters ahead of the ship anyways.so in essence, webs no longer affect mwd. but scramblers would, with the same basic effect as current webs.ehh?"
"i don't really see how that addresses any problems listed, or any problems at all... all that does is reallocate the problem to other modules and not fix any problem."
"because... nanos can balance between polycarb, overdrives, and... stabilizers. then ab craft suffer inside web range, and mwd craft can plan ahead and avoid being slowed down by overcoming the scramblers."
"i'm kinda lost on how that's different from today and webs current use.as for scripts, i'm game for scripts if webs had to choose b/t 40% webbing at 30km and 90% webbing at 5km, but that still doesn't address the ab problem at all. right now, mwd trumps ab b/c speed and mass allow the mwd to be an incredible defensive tool to escape tracking, damage, and scrambler range. there simple is no reason to choose less speed while still wasting a slot for a mod when you can just tank harder. right now it's mwd or nothing at all for virtually all ships.there is a reason they took mwd use outta complexes but left ab. i see this as a similar application to complexes, but on a practical level for pvp use."
"exotic dancers are widely considered a good luck charm. oddly, i've met pilots who use livestock instead but i really didn't want to discuss the issue with them in detail."
"i agree with this totaley"
"okay, i support this now. the original post seemed like a prank and i'm still not sure it isn't, but subsequent posts have brought up the issue of good luck charms.good luck charms really work. not because of some supernatural intervention, but because of the way they make people feel. if you have a positive attitude about your chances in combat, you're going to do better. it doesn't have to make sense. if it works, you use it. you see the same thing on sports teams all the time. rituals before the big game, articles of apparel or game play such as a lucky sweat band or bat or glove or club, etc.having read the above you might guess i have good luck pieces and you'd be correct. mine are slaver hounds. i keep one on every combat ship i field. liberated from their hated amarrian owners, they have absolute loyalty, eliminate shipboard vermin and provide an amusing and terminal surprise for any who board my ship without my leave.best regards,windjammer"
"exotic dancer bonuses:-endless life,-endless ammo,-etc.: i support this!"
"i was in a small fleet battle the other day  70 on 60 . and found that some people in the fleet were able to target ships and shoot while my module activations just failed and my ship was unresponsive resulting in ship loss without firing a single shot.the funny thing is that my fps were not that bad. and also eve voice worked fine all that time so the network connection seemed fine.i know that lag can not be avoided but at this point it does not seem to impact all players in the fleet the same way. maybe i need to upgrade hardware or try another isp but at this point i just do not have enough information about the nature of the failure to do fleet battles.maybe we can have indicators that show the following conditions:1. client cpu can not keep up with game status updates.2. we have fps already.3. network quality of service.  are my modules not activating because adsl downstream and upstream capacity are conflicting? 4. server cpu load.i suspect that when the server gets overloaded the requests that get processed are not scheduled in a fair order resulting in some requests being handled and others starved.without more detailed feedback we customers can not really do anything to improve the situation.ccp please fix the lag  and your ui by the way  before blizzard will do to you want they did to everquest."
"trolling removed. navigator"
"agreed, but i would like a smaller distance, particularly for the smaller ships."
"lol, nano***s already have a big advantage , now they need an escape with my pod alive 99% of the time feature. get real."
"agreed"
"i like this idea a lot!"
"i support this, however it should also be noted that while moving at greater than maximum speed, this should not affect the insta-warp that pods already posess  ie if you eject from your ship and are moving at 2km/s in one direction and click to warp to a celestial in the other direction, you should not need to slow down first, you should simply warp."
"make remote-repping someone with an aggro flag take on the same flag themselves?would prevent carriers from sitting on the station and repping their own guys, as well as logistics that sit on a gate and jump out when they get banged up."
"have no idea for solution, but +++"
"i say adjust the docking and jumping timers based on sigradius of ship at the time of their most recent aggression. this actually gives target painters something useful to do in these situations. judging from current signature radiuses  radii?  of everything from frigates to battleships, i would say that ratio of 1 second timer per 2.5 meters of signature radius would probably be acceptable. that would mean that an abaddon with its current 470m sigradius would have a docking timer of 2.6 minutes. of course, this should be playtested on sisi to figure out the best ratio  perhaps 1/2 or 1/3 of sigradius . and to avoid exploits  jump in a frigate at a safe location, shoot something  perhaps a willing friendly , then jump back in your battleship or capital to dock , make sure that the timer for the most recent aggression isn't smaller than the aggression previous to it before setting the timer to it.if you can't kill something with that, then add target painters. you'd be surprised how fast a battleship or battlecruiser's sigradius  and thus, timer  would multiply with just two or three painters.in any case, create an assist timer which is 50% of the aggression timer of the person you've assisted. so if player a aggresses and receives a 60-second timer, then player b repairs player a... player b should receive a 30-second timer.if you're feeling especially nerf-full, you could make both timers cumulative  so two remote repping ships would each receive a timer of aggression + assist, the example above would total 90 seconds each .then to tie it all together, apply the current 15 minute aggression-logoff timer as the maximum for the docking timer. so if you're scrambled, you can log off and sit  most likely warp scrambled  at the undock for 15 minutes with no view of what's going on. or you can stay logged on and monitor your tank for that 15 minutes and then simply dock. or you can self-destruct.this would also help against nanos. if a cruiser-sized nano aggresses with their mwd on, they're going to have a 3 to 8 minute aggression timer  depending on particular ship and fittings  in which they cannot jump out of system, which gives defenders additional time to set up traps.and it gives a bonus to regular interdictors. their smaller sigradius means that their bubbles won't prevent them from jumping for a full 2 minutes, but rather a much more reasonable 25 to 45 seconds base, if they leave their mwd off. that's a fair amount of time to kill a slow interdictor  again: mwd off  if you primary them as soon as you come out of warp.in all cases, for any dynamic timer to not **** off a lot of people, you would definitely need to display the timer somewhere  i'm looking at you, 0.0 systems . large fleets will get angry when their heavier ships cannot keep up with slower ships for simple fleet movements, just because they shot someone 5 minutes ago and they don't know what their timer was  because it could have been adjusted by someone painting them ."
"undock = you appear 15km off station with invurnerable timer just like jumping though a gate invul timer. i.e you dont move or do anything and you are not lockable.perhaps in a random direction 15km form station, meaning a camped station would have a force surrounding it and the defenders could undock to try to risk making a run for it. this also solves all undock bumping and stuck issues as well."
"random undocking spots and distances now!"
"especially with the recent implementation,  and based on bad amarr standing and sec status  i am finding more and more of my ships are stuck in highsec systems i cannot access.i understand that there are consequences for actions, but their outta be a means to move these ships to where they can be used. none of my alts can fly them, and they are rigged so i cannot repackage them for transport of a freighter.perhaps with the proposed small freighter it can have a ship maintancence array. relatively large so as to move a single battleship  the hardest to move in highsec  but give it horrible agility or some other nerf.or perhaps a new ship class, similar to a freighter, but only able to move assembled ships, and have the ability as well to haul a single battleship.anyway, just an issue i have had and wish to be addressed. the proposed ideas may not be ideal, but i am sure csm and ccp will be better equipped to see an advantagous solution.-bryg"
"issue is coming up this sunday and was initially raised in this thread. please go and add your support to that one and can you discuss implementation ideas there ideally?thanks."
"this is a nonsense situation. a forum is inherently a broken method of dealing with the whole csm topic discussion  at least without some additional functionality ... and now it's been made even more of a nonsense by the massive spam of meeting minutes, bumping all of the actual topics away.it was bad enough sorting through the threads before and what ccp wrangler has done has made a mockery of the process. i think that the csm is doing a great job, and the light at the end of the tunnel was beginning to shine, but this only goes to solidify my perception that ccp really don't care about making the csm effective, and by implication that marginalises all of the players.i've been keenly reading and sometimes posting on the topics raised - but i am really starting to think that participation in this process is like banging your head against a brick wall. a growing mountain of little bits and pieces like this have eroded my faith to the point where i lack confidence that ccp will ever take this as seriously as they are claiming, and as a result i am definitely sliding from 'interested' towards 'indifferent'.come on ccp - sort this out before it is too late. meeting minutes and the threads that generated the discussion clearly require their own section on the forums. get the proclamations room back in, and move all of the threads into there. you have several csm reps on this very thread saying this method of posting was a bad idea - please for god's sake, listen to them like you said you would."
"exactly. the proclamations section of the csm forums was put up and then taken down before there was anything to put in it. now that there is something to put in proclamations, they dump the whole thing in the middle of assembly hall. this is not well done and it is very difficult to see how assembly hall can possibly function with this happening after every csm/ccp meeting.right now it's made the assembly hall navigation extremely cumbersome and disrupted it to a high degree. i really do not want to see how much a mess they can make it by dumping every csm/ccp meeting in here.this has the feel of something done with little care.windjammer"
"yeah, there needs to be a number of forums, imo.general discussions - currently speaker's cornerissues - assy    halloutstanding issues raised with ccpresolved issuesrejected issuesthen a proper process can be followed:idea is raised in 1  or features and ideas .after a period of discussion, the same idea is raised as an issue in 2 with reference to the original discussion, so people can show their support formally.if enough support is raised, the issue is brought to ccp. when this happens, a post is started in 3 with reference to the posts in 1 and 2, and with ccps reply. if ccp want more information on a topic, then the post is opened for comment, otherwise it is locked  for example if it's something only they can look at internally .when an issue is resolved, it is passed to 4, referencing all previous threads, and a comment on the resolution, including  if appropriate  details on when the solution will be implimented.if at any stage an issue is rejected, it is moved to the rejected issues thread and locked, with comment on why it has been rejected"
"good ideas but is going to fall down on any actual moving between forum categories. this is a function that is unlikely ever to be available to csm members - and creating more work for the full time moderators will not be popular. best resolution remains - please give us back the \"proclamations\" forum rename it to \"csm archives\"  or something  - move all these threads there and in the future let csm members request moves for closed issues also so we keep the assembly hall for discussion of live issues."
"whilst it would be nice to move the threads, the same could be accomplished by locking the original threads and creating a new one. that's why i mentioned the references, so there's a decent paper-trail."
"if wrangler can make 30 topics, i think that he would forgive me for bumping one. even if you don't support my ideas, let me know why. i'm always open for additional suggestions and improvements."
"why can't you put your ideas in the idea forum?so you want a anti-mwd cloud in every belt and plex. so the player who already uses abs, will still use abs and receive no penalties. the players that use mwd, will still use mwds, but now get a penalty.this thread is all kinds of fail. abs are only useful on ratting/mission/plex ships so let's boost their usage in plexes! then more people will use them. riiiiiight."
"stupid and counterproductive. when the issue is that the modules are terrible the answer is not to create elaborate environments that make them seem attractive but rather to fundamentally revise the module.tactical environments are just a buzzword for complexes and instancing, the wrong direction for eve to be going in."
"how so? i don't think that the only places of combat should be gates and moons, and factional warfare has demonstrated that such a system can exist and be fun. why is it bad to encourage more of this instead of people clumping up on moons and gates like it has been for the past five years? regarding revising the ab module, you are free to suggest a change - if i like it, i'll support it.also, complexes do not equal instancing."
"i would like to see a grander introduction of game play for the eve populous. some thing for everyone. what a lot on players see is a lot of attention to the pvp side, changes and fixes. yes they get attention but the majority of the time it is not the favorable kind. pvp'rs have had the biggest change in there game play than any other in the game. players are forced to change skill paths and so on just to keep up with the \"balancing\". a lot of the \"goodies\" pvprs get are either broken, worthless or incomplete. and once they are accepted they end getting nerfed. it is the cycle of things for a pvp'r. its a pretty turbulent ride.industrialist/mission runners..oh hell carebears. in my past life pvp was very important focus. and now trying the bear side of the woods. its kind of...well, like eating newspaper. its pretty bland and very repetitive. there are some challenges and yes the rewards can be great, but..its just another plain cardboard box. one thing i do appreciate is that the stuff we do get are pretty much stable. there is very little change to upset the cart, but there is very little change to improve the taste of newspaper too.the bear side needs something and so does the pvp aspect. i think if we can get away from focusing on one side or another we can find our selves a grander idea, one that noah at ccp is looking for. something that gives color and a little spice. marcus came up with some ideas that can work on a ground floor base. the ideas he initially presented can be used by all. that is where we need to go. or at least start."
"it's amazing you can actually type something like this and still manage to dress yourself in the morning.this must be from a random bull**** generator, no way can this be real."
"there are people that believe they don't need manufacturing and the last time i saw something that said stuff about the industrial side getting stuff it was well received. you jettisoned the ore, aka you threw it away, deal with the consequences. ratting + reprocess > mining = ****ed up w00t, you had one valid point. move ore from cargo to giant can, hauler then moves ore from container to its cargo. you are in a corp.. you guys don't do mining ops together or anything? please do go on."
"it is the nature of fallen man to steal, kill and destroy, make desolate even down to their own selves and their own societies.but, there is hope, that leads to faith, and love is constructive, protective and victorious. it does not destroy those which embrace by it, nor does it scorn those which hate it.eve, a type of the womb. the very purpose of wombs is to conceive, produce, shelter and give birth to life.destruction vs. construction.i agree. unite."
"i concede to you obvious intellect and rapier type wit. you obviously have a much grander design. please show us the way."
"first, english is not my first language so plz take that into account. then, let me tell you i played in large alliances for about 3+ years, and participated in big campaigns in all different kind of settings, without capitals, during the dread-age, and also the supercapital-age using the first titans in game.ccp claimed that they wished the csm to present more longterm ideas regarding eve, because they wanted to discuss eves future, not minor issues. so, lets speak about eves future:time to realize a mistake was madeshort version:1. veterans will know: eve was way larger back in the days before the capital-era  if you dont understand read on 2. the introduction of the jumpdrive was one of the biggest balance-changes and the consequences a major oversight by the developers. at first it wasnt so obvious because more ships with jumpdrive-capability got added only later.3. now, after about 2 years  it could be seen earlier but lets analyze it now , we experience the consequences, a capital blob can visit all of 0.0 in about 2h and lay havoc everywhere only to be countered by a even larger capital blob. this blob got a size normal fleets couldnt match 2 years ago.4. its time that eve gets bigger again, and there are only 2 ways:a  increase eve-size by adding deep 0.0  = not near empire because all operations can start from empire and adding more space near it will change nothing at all b  nerf the jumpdrive  i dont like this idea, taking something away is always bad, but it would be the easier solution edit: deep 0.0 are regions added for example behind \"branch\", making the distance to travel to the furthest point from empire 2-3x the time needed today.5. why? lets face it, capital blobs will not go away, they will get bigger and bigger. as it was before the capital era the territory has to be so large that an entity cannot travel it in one evening, even in jumpdrives  1 evening = about 3-4 hours 6. lag? well, knowing how the serverstructure of eve works, we also know that adding systems is only a question of adding more cpus to the serverstructure. yes, 1 system nowadays is limited by 1 cpu  because only 1 cpu can be assigned to it, except the market/chat...  and by the rather undynamic loading system  only at dt  no 1000man battle can take place in a system.butadding more systems doesnt change anything as long as ccp adds the same amount of cpus parallel to the added systems  20% more systems = 20% more cpus . you as a player will then notice no difference.eve got to a point where everything was great, and then ruined itself. the point i speak of? when dreads where added, but no carriers and supercaps. that was the best eve i have played. dreads where no problem because they were specialized ships, and bs where still necessary but there was no fast travel mode for bs, and dread didnt replace bs, so the distances in eve stayed the same, and 50 jumps where a long way to go.then, carriers and ms/titans got in and changed everything in 2 ways: 1. carriers/ms replaced the need of bs in war, and fundamentaly changed the logistic aspect of pos-networks; and 2. titans could move every kind of ship faster across the universe then before.both changes made eve smaller at least by the factor 4.so, time to get that right again. veterans who played before the capital age will know what i mean, and others should think about what it could be, because there was a time when eve was huge in terms of territory.let me tell you, when you are able to supply a whole alliances needs with only 2 ships  2x rorqual/jump freighter  you know eve got too small.warning rl comparison:medieval age = slow transport = regional conflictsmodern age = fast transport = world wars, superpowers can fight in every part of the world within 24h  you can count that kind of superpowers on 1 hand, as in eve of today i want my medieval eve back, it was simply more fun.now for the csm to elaborate and discuss this topic."
"before i start, i'm no carebear. i've pirated, i kill people daily, and i enjoy it, so don't slander my name with \"carebear bull****\" [x] the ninja salvager should be aggro'd to the mission runner after the first wreck is salvaged, because the mission runner owns the wrecks, and i feel that ccp needs to change the current dynamic.when someone does a mission, who kills the rats? who spends time to get the ability to do those missions? who spends isk to afford ships to take rats out. the missioner does. ninja salvagers are a scourge on missioners. i salvage every time but strangly enough marauders are expensive, maybe i have other things i want to buy than waste a several hunderd mil isk because some ***** feel the need to come into my mission generated because of hard work i have put into this game. oddly enough, i cant be in 2 ships at once, and i can't do much salvaging in a raven without sacrificing dps or tank. so whenever you come in m mission, which i might add happens all the damn time, you are 1. taking something that you have put 0 effort in for oh no!! the skills are soooo hard to train for, well how about getting some balls and training to do your own missions instead 2. taking isk out of my pocket3. being a lazy **** that cant do missions of his own because... well you guess know your own problems, so i hardly need to say them aloud.but this \"class of players\" that ccp will be \"destroying\" if they fix this are theives who reap the benefits of others hard labor and spent isk. try and help eve!, delete your account and make one that might actually be a productive player rather than an *******. you would save me and others who salvage their missions alot of hassle. ccp needs to fix this so that when some stupid ***** comes into my mission, i can kill him, and not have half a dozen of his \"buddies\" try and jump me. plz allow me to shoot to kill without having to worry if his buddies are waiting for me to do this.now, i have no problem with you coming in and asking first and salvaging if im ok wit, but you never do that do you.sry for the rant, its late and stupid people arguing over something that is boils down to one thing. thefti bid you good day, unless your a ninja salvager, then you can go **** yourself."
"i will say this again.your best bet is approach some of the csm privatly and pay them to support any idea that is not to their exclusive best interest.honestly, the reasons against this have been lame and without reasonable excuse.just to prove it.take the arguments being used against a better \"solo\" exploration vessel and replace all refferance to it with the \"mobile station\" and you will see the words of our beloved csm are more apt.\"lazy\" doesnt even come close to the description. think about it. they call us lazy cause we dont want to have to travel 30 jumps one way, get a differant ship and then move 30 more jumps back to our starting point.but they want to be able to carry the whole damn station whereever they want.the csm is a polluted and worthless beast build on the desires of the large subscription blocks and nothing more.just to give another example.bacon had been used by the large alliences for a while. once it entered mainstream use ccp said they dont support it and changed the client to keep it from working. but they even publicly stated they knew it was being used by the large subscription blocks for some time. see, the large subscription blocks didnt like eveyone having a level playing field.now look at hot boxing. ccp says they dont officially \"approve\" or \"support\" this but they turn around and write code into the client to make it easier to do... to make the large subscription blocks happy.listen, i love exploration but since we are not part of the \"large subscription base\" and are actually supporting something the large alliances do not want it ain't gonna happen.exploration might be the next solo pacifier... missions that take longer.look at the drone regions. they are still way messed up in exploration but they dont care cause the large alliances dont care.and neither will the csm.and those who actively dont oppose a craft with solo potential just dont care enough to know anything about it.sorry but it is truth.i wish it was differant.but its not."
"please explain how the csm verdict/opinion the \"they are just being lazy\" is arguable in any context and that may work.till then if it doesnt impact the csm directly then they wont support it.my suggestion to the op is get enough isk together to pay the csm to actually do something other then talk about the \"lazy\" explorers who dare to no want to treck 40 jumps back and forth to get a ship that can do the site you just found.oh, and eve is a multiplayer game and solo content is frowned on by many of the csm.check the minutes.trust me, the isk route is the best bet of getting anything done.good luck."
"learning skills are a \"bad\" idea because they have nothing to do with how well your character performs at anything: except training times. they aren't really \"optional\" unless you like taking too long to train skills. with a few levels of them you'll end up ahead within a couple weeks. anyone saying \"i did it, stop whining.\" is just bitter. having to train learning skills adds nothing to the game. it does not add difficulty. it's not something they have to work for.. it's just a waiting period. at the worst possible time. you want to immerse new players as quickly as possible. this means letting them play and noticeably advance... rather than spending their entire trial -waiting- to advance. just give everyone the equivalent of 5/5 learning skills. no one loses anything; most of us gain, and would not complain for it. on an unrelated note, i think a true \"mentor\" is probably the worst thing for a new player in eve. the learning curve is steep, but the \"mentor\" is going to try to maximize the efficiency of the new player... not the new players ability to enjoy the game. sure, rushing learning skills is fine if you're making an alt, but for a new player it's a drudge. i think i would have grown bored with eve rapidly if i'd not discovered things on my own... and been told to grind straight into higher missions for isk, get this ship, train these skills, etc... instead, i trained straight into assault ships, and tried to gank a vagabond in my 1m sp rifter in a .3. and had a hell of a lot of fun doing it."
"if you are unhappy. go and use the drugs. you dont need implants"
"full support!"
"no u"
"the iceland meeting has already taken place.thanks for posting."
"please lock this thread. its now really taking the mickey that discussion of meeting 3 is constantly bumped above discussion of recent meetings post iceland when virtually everyone with an interest in the process knows that these early teething issues with the council have been resolved to mutual satisfaction. this thread  and others like it  now serve only the interests of trolling and shouldn't be open."
"thread locked.topic has become little more than trolling."
"locked.please do not cross-post."
"all of the people in this thread, and thousands more have been pretty much crapped on by the csm, all they are interested in is their own little games - i will be sure to keep this thread alive and will definitely bring it out when it is time for the next elections. serenity steele? how interesting and telling is your silence, as the other members of the csm who so heartily \"supported\" this thread. how very telling is their silence? well, all of you people, look at yourselves, and start asking questions......."
"some quotes by csm members regarding this:really, please tell me, what happened - did horse trading got in the way?where are you dear friend? where is this on the ccp - csm meeting minutes?when did this happen, before or after coffee? or was it just whispered about? i do not see any information about it in ccp - csm meeting minutes..."
"once again... \"ccp is aware of the issue, and it will be addressed ~soon~\".i think they call that pacifying the crowd?"
"how many of the csm representatives run even one pos? i think none, veteran players and leaders shun pos management and often paw off the running of them on more singleminded individuals who can handle the mental abuse that it is maintaining and even looking at pieces of ****.this could explain why the pos issue was largely forgotten at the meet."
"i am the only person in pl, or anyone we fought so far, to use a black ops on a regular basis in pvp combat  using serena greyskull, about 100 kills , so i have more experience then most with this class.what has been suggested in the topic, more fuel, jump to cov-ops cyno, increase jump distance, is without question needed, however the issue of range needs to be addressed.the current ship bonus makes most black ops effective in combat only at close range, with the exception of the widow  which i fly , and let's face it, people don't want to use 700m ships up close. even the widow suffers at range, because it has jamming bonus's that are only effective at short range.bs are effective at distance, anyone stupid enough to set them for close range will get ****d by hac's.... and as such black op's should have fits / bonus that allows them to stay with the bs fleet.the widow is a great ship, but all my other black ops stay in the hanger, and need additional bonus'sotherwise reduce there costs, so other people can afford to use / loose them in up close combat."
"you make some rather good points there...i specifically like the one about teamwork. i feel you are right, you should never need 3 players to take full advantage of your ship. maybe two  carrier + cyno , but three is just way too out there. i say this: drastically reduce fuel use, or use an alternative. waxau mentions cap as an alternative, which isnt a bad idea...but i also go as far as this: remove the second player. i dont need a cyno character to make full use of my paladin, so why my redeemer? allow black ops to jump to any system within range, given they have the fuel. make them appear in a random spot 1au from the sun or something. these two improvements would make players love the blackops ship: they could jump into a system, execute their plan  killing of a target, whatever , and gtfo quickly, without the need to have another player there to light the cyno each time. then again, who am i to speak, i dont fly them  but waxau does :d  , i just wish i can  50 days left \o/  "
"i think that this is an important first step. i suspect that they will still be weak afterwards... as they are weak defensively and offensively and very expensive.also a fan of transport ship being able to be jumped  give it cloaking ability also  like a stealth bomber."
"yup always thought we needed more logistics support in the hualer sense... carries are just to expensive and general for this - e.i. to little space  i'd say 100k or so exclusive fuel  but with too muhc offencive power.. also we need nerf so they don't end up to be the new jf - else that needs a boost  it needed from day one anyway for that price "
"i can see some inherent problems, such as:1. how do you get all your ships out into space? how do you get them back into a station?would you just undock each ship, leave the ship, dock back up, get the next ship, etc then finally undock with the tug and lock up each ship and have some sort of tractor module? and what would prevent people from jumping in your ship while you are getting them all out of the station?2. jumping through stargates. how exactly would that work? part of the whole idea of ships is that it is in fact enclosed. the stuff around you does not follow you to the next system. how do you jump 20 ships and a tug at one time? kind of defies logic, too. but who's to say what's logical, what with oil instead of outerspace.i support a ship that can only carry ships. it's \"cargo\" is huge-- millions of m3, but it can only hold unpackaged ships. it does not require any removal of mods, but cargo can only have ammo  to keep from carrying a bunch of extra crap, as you can imagine put a cap on ship size-- nothing larger than a bs. when the ship transport blows, the ships just pop up in space, fully assembled, fully fitted  if you choose  just floating. some may blow up with the transport, some may suffer damage and others will be unscathed.this puts not only a huge risk on transporting, but also allows a whole new mechanic. imagine the loot you could score. however, these ships should definitely not be easy to kill  as in, no suicide high sec ganking "
"you're right. i screwed up on the description of what i was aiming for. i should have added that this time restriction would apply to 3 or more qued skills. that way you could still have a long skill in the que. i.e. finish a short skill and continue in training with the long skill and/or train 3 or more short skills up to the time restriction.ccp's desire needs to be accomodated in this issue and personally i find it to be valid. they simply feel that people who log in frequently, say once a day, are more prone to interact in the game and thus provide a dynamic to the game. i think they're correct and i would also like to see a que of some sort. i think it's possible to do both.hope that's better,windjammer"
"it's great that they are hoping for something...but the sad reality is, a lot of people log in just long enough to switch skills.so as i said, whether it's every few hours  currently , or every day  your way  or every couple days  my way ... logging in to switch can't possibly be considered \"playing the game\".if someone wants to play, then they'll play. training has no impact on that. fleet battles, mining parties, lp grinding... a skill queue of any sort won't impact those activities.but sometimes you just want to let a few skills train, while you play xbox or something in the meantime.that's all i'm saying. if they added a time limited queue, especially one that only permits a days worth of training... it'll hear just as much complaints as the day long jump clone timer.jump clones, shorter.skill queue, longer."
"the other way could be considered as well is setting-up skill training for a certain level, f.e. if i have 'warp drive operation' at lvl 2 i would like to have a possibility to set training up to lvl 5 w/o need to log-in."
"generally this isn't *that* hard to work around, i've been training alot of chars for alot of years while working, when at the computer i put on the shorter skills, as much as possible, and so have a heap of longer skills ready  2-3 weeks each at least  so i could do an hour or so of a 6 hour skill in six different sessions and put on a longer 14 day skill as i finish playing. however, i think alot of people are really trying to reduce the impact eve has on their life schedule, and it's only something i can support as it's a more responsible way of dealing with the game, having people staying up for an extra hour or some such just so they can finish a skill and get to the next long one is a real issue that people shouldn't be having to deal with. we want the game to be 'fun' making it like work isn't. especially when things like the api for viewing your skill training go down. it might be a little bit 'easy' to make it duration based, as you could go to sleep and wake up with 12 lvl 1 skills finished or something silly. at least if it was dual training or something like that it would give you a chance to finish the current skill and put a longer one on after that. or simply have skills train until their highest level."
"this.seems to be the simplest and most logical/realistic thing to do."
"this, tbqfh."
"the best idea and simplest imho is to allow the training of two skills at one time with the skill points split between them. this allows for a long skill to be picked and a shorter ones to be picked as well with the shorter one finishing and then the longer one getting the full time when it is complete.another possible solution:make skill point generation more generic and automatic.i select two attributes and they generate skills points that can then be applied to skills that use those two attributes.while online skill point generation is either at the current normal rate or 1.5 the current rate.while offline skill point generation is at the normal rate or 1.5 less then curernt rate.if an account is not active then skill point generation is 25% of the off line rate.the skill point requirements for levels would still be there and based on the rating of the skill but you could save till you have enough for the level or put some in every few days.this also means you can setup a inactivity timer to disconnect people that just log in and go afk for most of the day. 5 min should be good. as it stands now someone can log in and stay connected for hours on end with no activity. this wastes resources and generates lag."
"i would love the idea of a skill que that's just 2 skills deep. would save me a hell of alot of trouble."
"the main reason for the current skill trains at the same speed online/offline/inactive account etc is that the database calls for it are very simple:skill training on skill started at time xthen when checking it simply has to find the time it started and see how much time has elapsed. it doesn't have to add points or do anything at a set interval, it's just a simple time calculation that can be done outside the database if necessary. it's actually quite brilliant in terms of reducing the load on the database, so i imagine a candidate for an extra system would require that it didn't cause more server load. dual training is probably the easiest of these, as it just makes the calculation a little trickier, but doesn't make the information you need to store that much more complicated."
"i think a skill que would be great i am deploying for a year and will not have access so lining up 12months of skills would be well worth it for me to stay active with eve otherwise i might have stop my subsciption"
"definitely support this. i've never understood why this feature was missing. i completely disagree with the fact that logging in to change skill encourages me to play the game. i play the game simply because i want to play to the game. there are certainly weeks where i just didn't have time to play, but had to log in for just long enough to set a skill. it didn't tempt me to sit there and play because i simply didn't have time. and i've also certainly lost a few weeks worth of training to being on travel for work. which is kind of unfair in a time based training system when the whole point is that you skill over time not based on time spent in game grinding.edit: as for the queue itself, i think it should be 5-10 skills deep. there's no reason to limit it based on time. i don't buy limiting this curbs macroers who make accounts for mining / selling, as most of their life is spent playing this game and it's hardly a hurdle to have to log in an account and set a skill when you're sitting in front of the game anyways. the only suggestion i would have is to change it so that skills stop progressing when an account expires so as not to be able to take advantage of the system and gain skill for free."
"/concur"
"requested drone implants:-damage-speed-durability-signature radius  reduction, obviously -tracking-e-war effectivenessi also think that we're way overdue for t2 and named versions of omnidirectional tracking links, drone navigation computers, and drone link augmenters."
"a totally different way to look at war-decs is through the eyes of the factions and their agents. for example, the rulers of caldari would most likely want the corporations operating within their territory to keep the peace and not interfere with trade and stuff by blowing each other up. corps breaking the peace by waging war against each other will therefore be punished by lowered standings with caldari's main agents and corporations. all based on where the war-declaring corp has the majority of it's offices and where the war-target has the majority of it's offices. caldari/caldari would be very bad, but caldari/gallente would not be as bad  in analogy with the faction wars .this would allow for war-decs to be issued as today, but would stop the offender from doing it too many times in a row without risking jump clone facilities and such stuff."
"if they are going to make it harder to war dec, they better do something about the corp hopping. they need to make it much harder to corp hop."
"here's a victory/loss/isk suggestion:ship values are determined in the game - there are benchmarks ccp uses - see insurance - the payout is always the same. by this i mean if i have a megathron and someone else does, if we insure our ships, it costs us the same and the payout is the same - and for all the other megathrons out there. and for every ship.so these ships have an \"isk value\" that ccp has placed there.starting a war with a corporation could involve a \"victory condition\" as stated in the op whereby once a certain or certain sets of scenarios are played out the war is over - won by either side. what this is or these are, is yet to be determined. here is my suggestion:the initiating corporation  the ones that start the war dec  could set a victory condition of 500m isk - for the war to be won, 500m isk of ships to \"isk value\" of the destructed ships. this value is paid down by the initiating corp to concord. this is \"the bond\".for each week that goes by without the value being reached, the cost for the warp for the starting faction is half the amount of destroyed ships.for every ship killed, the \"isk value\" of that ship is paid out of that bond to the pilot of either side - so if the defenders kill one of the attackers, they get the isk from the attacker's bond.example:the initiating corp sets a victory condition of 500m isk. in the first week they destroy 300m isk of the target corporation's ships. the cost for the war for the next week will now be 150m isk.in that next week they need to kill 200m isk more for the war to be over. they could stretch it out longer only by killing less ships.the defending corp can pay concord the same isk back - whatever the war dec amount is left to pay - to \"invalidate\" the war.questions:q1  why 50% of the value?a1  it's an arbitrary number i made up. it could be any percentage.q2  how does this make sense story-wise?a2  the war dec cost is described in game as a bribe to concord to \"look the other way\", so to speak. the more ships you kill, the more you have to pay, but the war will be over soon.q3  what's to stop really rich corps from continuously setting 10 billion isk wars on smaller corps which will take a year to be \"won\"?a3  nothing technically. but i can't really see people paying a bond of such a large amount just to shoot some kestrals.the aim behind this is the attackers can't really go around deccing corps of brand new players - they set the bond too high and its not worth it - they set it too low and the war is over quickly.this also allows players who can afford it, to pay concord to invalidate the war - after a 24 hour period - i can't see why this isn't logical - you bribe concord to start a war, why not bribe them to stop it. in this case, if the defenders bribe concord then the \"bond\" from the attacking corp is paid back to the attacking corp - it wouldn't be lost isk.i'm a suicide ganker, right? but i'm not above reproach - i once suicided a new player's entire life  his proud +1% hardwirings etc - i thought they were worth more  - when i found out his entire badger was worth 20m  hey we all make mistakes!  i paid it him back out my own isk because what i had done was not prey on the stupid but the new - and i see that distinction.i also recognise and i think that a lot of people do, if they're being realistic, is war decs are screwed entirely in the favour of not just the aggressor but griefers. i don't use that word lightly.racketeers are not griefers, privateers are not griefers. 2 20m sp players deccing literally a corp of 20 people with 1m sp all brand new and don't know what the best mining laser is yet, is wrong - it's just not fair and this is a game after all.something needs to be done about it and i think my idea, outlined above, goes some way towards that. it's a little rough around the edges and could do with shaping up a bit, but i think it could be the basis of something interesting."
"i'm sure most of us would love some grand scheme that creates a great deal more depth in the war system. i'm sure something like that is out there, but anything grand is going to require a significant amount of development resources, take a while to actually deploy, and risks disrupting some other things unintentionally.so in the mean time, rather than totally re-working the war system or adding many layers of complexity at once: what are some small changes that are small improvements?here's one as an example: we have a pay-to-grief system. why not add a pay-for-peace counterbalance? if the aggressor pays 10m to war-dec, the defender can pay 10m to suspend it forcing the aggressor to re-bid at 20m, and so on.no it doesn't solve everything. no it doesn't add much depth. no it doesn't apply to every situation. but it's super-easy to implement and has very few side-effects."
"to be honest i haven't had any issues with the war dec system since the privateers were kicking it large scale. at the moment at least any war decs are because people want to hunt my corp/alliance, and not just because 'wardecs are cheap and we can just dec everyone and make empire target rich'. at least this way you have to put some thought into choosing your target. thanks though to the privateers all my operations are completely immune to wardecs, since having a full time war meant adjusting things to work regardless of the war state instead of just the occasional inconvenience. if found the easiest way to stop a war dec is to simply not present targets.also, it's actually much much harder for the bigger party in a wardec than the smaller one. if you are a small corp, and declared by a large one, it's easy to just not give them easy kills. as a small corp fighting a larger one, you have more targets, and so more oppertunity to score kills.you could go for some kind of target fee  corp a declares corp b  cost is  corp a size  x  corp b size  though sometimes i think that just means people will through as many alts and non active players into their corps to make declaring them more expensive.i'd suggest maybe making a way to 'win' a war as the defender being to not lose a certain value of ships or 'win' as an attacker by destryoing a certain value. maybe the war is over once that value is not reached in a certain time, or earlier if reached or some such. with the war cost perhaps being related to the value you can destroy.  - just throwing the idea out haven't thought it through fully. ignore if it seems silly .still i'm not sure it's a broken system, maybe the cost needs to move up if it's determined to be too cheap, if people are willing to pay a good amount to 'grief' a corp, i can't see why you can't just make them pay money and not get any kills. avoiding death is not that hard if you have a head on your shoulders."
"a thread of fail for a bunch of pansies."
"attacker have to risk something... otherwqise grief will continue... i still suport my command center option.if griefers risk to have their corp disbanded for 1 or 2 months and all members unable to join any corp for about 2 months, when a mercenary corporation find and destroy their commander center, they will think 2 times before grief someone and declare war.all other solution are useless... sorryedited: we do not need to make war more expensive, we need to allow anyone tod efend himself, by his own weapons or by paying mercenaries... as it is now, noobs cannot defend, and even if they pay mercenaries, they cannot play for patrol 24 / 24, waiuting thet thet griefers come online..."
"300k would errode market share from jump freighters unless jump freighters also got a boost. they're currently 'the' agile way to move that sized cargo around in empire  ie, more agile than a freighter, but carrying alot more than a hauler .personally i'd like to see a jumpdriveless rorqual with the ability to carry other ships in the bay aside from haulers  to let people move rigged ships around empire if needed probably with less tanking ability, and a slightly faster warp than freighters  though less than a cruiser sized ship ."
"i like the concept of a larger hauler as it pertains to high sec pos's. the thing that holds me back from setting one up is all the time it takes to haul fuel for it. 150-300k space would make it fueling pos's a lot easier without the expense of buying a freighter.so thumbs up.and judging by the comments here i don't see anyone really against the idea."
"i'd like to see a big brother to the transport ships.. with about 10 times the base space. with a base around 40,000-75,000 m3 and 10 medium/low slots, the ship would be interesting to haul in. assuming you maxed cargo expanders and rigs, the hold size might approach but not exceed the racial jump freighter.the lack of ability to \"fit\" a freighter makes the ship a known gank target. player time spent discussing ship fittings is entertaining, without the ability to fit the ship that aspect of the game is lost. i'm also a fan of massive tanks, but i suspect most pirates are not. in the end, the space vs. tank issue will need to be balanced. right now, the freighter tank is too small for the value of cargo it can haul. if this ship fits in a similar vein, with out the ability to build a powerful tank, then the ship will not be well received."
"sadly the fact is most of us don't trust ccp to make a good system after the discovery of all the problems with the 'lottery' system.i have two thoughts on t2 bpos, however both would require considerable effort and probably both would make certain parts of the playerbase mad.1  accept that tech ii is the new tech i. it has become so plentiful that in reality it is the standard by which things are judged today. as such have t2 bpos seeded on the npc market. this gives equal access to anyone who wants to buy them.  this does not guarantee they can build them .to be effective though you need a new level of items, tech iii, for the inventors to achieve and produce blueprints for for the manufacturers, thus this is probably the most intensive programming wise for ccp. 2  remove all t2 bpos from the game. modify the results from invention such that the chance of success becomes good enough to enable the inventors to take over from the bpo holders."
"exactly why do you think so? nobody have yet to actually make provide a good reason why it would be beneficial."
"we have to be somewhat realistic here. the barn door is open and the cattle gone--shutting it won't matter anymore with regards to t2 equipment. making invention easier and t2 items more common is happening, and they are the new standard--especially as more and more characters are expected to be able to use them, due to their volume of sp.there are some players that are wealthy beyond all reason because they  years ago  got into the t2 bpo game and have milked it ever since. arbitrarily removing their tens of billions of isk investments is quite simply an immoral solution  obviously i'm not a socialist, here .don't jack with t2 bpos--either adding or subtracting from them. just replace them with another tech tier and, this time, don't make the same mistake of seeding bpos at all. ever.--krum"
"personally adding 'specialist' rig slots would be nice. you have your standard ones for ccc's etc but then have specialist rigs for ship class, weapon class or whatever..."
"i would emphatically support adding more complexity to industry/manufacture. i specialized my character as a scientist and so, for the past year, was training nothing except skills for invention until our manufacturer was unable to play for a time. i trained skills to cover for this in no time. manufacturing has to be one of the dullest and simplistic things in eve. i understand that s&i go hand in hand, but there's a whole lotta science and a gaping lack of industry in this game. anything that gives more ability for manufacturers to affect the outcome of the job is great in my book. after all, they are the ones building it. a great manufactuerer should be able to do more than follow a blueprint precisely, s/he should also be able to add his own touches in some way."
"i agree that a random lottery = potential for abuse. i'm not aware of anyone that objects to the tech 1 bpo system. at some point  before tech 3  ccp should consider adding tech 2 bpo's as corporate sold bpo's to the market. at jaw dropping prices of course. at that point, invention would need to be ready to switch to tech 3. this is probably a long ways off however. since i don't get the sense that ccp is done with tech 2.. or ready to up base character entry skill points again."
"have a bad feeling about this... the only reason new industrial skills should be added if there are new industrial things added! i really think industrials need to get there own expansion but i think it will never happen because it does not 'sell' to the non eve playing public."
"here are some more radical ideas:- change all t2 bpos into bpcs with one year's worth of runs and be done with them.- make t1 production component based as t2 production, just with new, cheaper components.  as already proposed - change rig production to use standard, producible t1 and t2 components.- introduce sized rigs, current rig blueprints become cruiser sized, existing rigs will not be affected but will be phased out.- convert all existing salvage into t1 and t2 building components, fitting in amount their current value  according to eve world average - salvaging will now produce t1 and t2 components, the salvage loot tables get changed accordingly, greater amounts of salvage may be available.- remove t1 loot, it will be part of the salvage then, in the form of components- reduce currently public industry and science slots. add standing restricted slots instead, in several tiers, to allow privileged access only for people that are willing to dedicate the time to gain standing for the corporations.- add research contracts. contractor will give a bpo for a collateral, defining certain me/pe values and a time frame. on accepting the collateral will be put in limbo and the bpo transfered. on completion the contract can then be exchanged again for the collateral and the payment for the service, failure to finish the job within the given time results in the loss of the collateral but the bpo will remain with the researcher.- mining will get changed according to my ideas and stuff other people have contributed.well, that should be enough food for rabbles now."
"agreed. no-one who has put forward this idea has yet explained what ultimate goal they want to achieve by it, or why they think this is the right means to use towards that end.at the moment, it's certainly true that a number of the current t2 bpos  especially the less widely used ships  are causing market saturation and driving down some prices to the point where inventors can't compete with them, and this could be seen as somewhat unjust.on other other hand, a lot of people have contributed an enormous amount of time and effort towards purchasing these bpos, gambling heavily that they aren't going to lose their value, and it would be unfair to these people if the field was suddenly levelled. the inventors, relatively speaking, have tiny upfront costs.of course, if the field is levelled, then ultimately no-one will ever make more profit than the markets will bear, which won't be very much at all. i'd prefer to see a system where people who invest significantly more capital can produce better returns, to a much greater and more varied extent than is currently possible via skills and research."
" emphasis mine there is a solution to this. i suspect it requires a new low-level game mechanic, so it's not a quick-fix. and i acknowledge that it's very counter-intuitive, but we're trying to create a disincentive for something that is by nature very good  a bigger fleet means more friends, more firepower, etc .bombs must do more damage to many targets, than they do to few targets.the defining characteristic of a large group of ships is that there are many ships. there are very few other attributes which can be used to balance against them. they don't take any longer to warp out, they don't take any longer to lock targets, they don't get affected more or less by bubbles, and so on. there are different ways to approach the specific mechanics  and even the 'rp' of it . to illustrate: the one that comes immediately to mind is a sort of 'capacitance discharge device' where each bomb consumes half of the remaining capacitor of all the ships in its blast radius to do a proportional amount of damage. but the specifics are either beside the point or will be worked out in testing and not really part of this stage of the discussion."
"either a price reduction or ability boost needed. at the moment i don't find the survivability of the ship is an issue, when you're pretty much destroying a bomb that costs as much as the ship, the issue is that it's not all that effective unless you have alot of them, at which point their cost effectiveness is ridiculous. not many other weapons systems cost so much to use for so little potential effect. pretty much all they can destroy easily doesn't cost much / can easily escape in the time they're given."
"moar caek, less lye."
"a market around shares would be realy interesting.my personal thoughts:corporation shares should be only avaibale from npc s corps.the should be gettable on a realy hard and expensive way, which gurantee u a monthly dividende upon the buisness which was done for the corp.   tax from trades on there stations/ mineral refining etc... a way for modern/industrial pvp if peoples try to push buisness on stations  npc- corporations to get more dividende each month.if u know that your enemie corporation owns shares of station.... u will not do trades there, because u will not make them rich. theorie about trust:peoples should be able to found \"fonds\". this should be adapted like founding an alliance.like \"corporation a.b.c. investment found\".the founder had to pay a fee of 500 million isks as a base capital into a npc shareholding bank.from this moment the bank announce that a new \"fond\" is avaiable, and offers \"fonds-shares\".pa example. 1 million shares for 500 isks each.to buy shares from this bank u will need some \"new \" broker skills. upon the level u will be able to buy limited numbers of shares.the npc- shareholding bank returns 50% of the incoming money back to the founder of the fond.  on a seperate fond wallet .\"the rest stays in line\"\"the founder is able to split the corp tax and can set a special \"fond tax\".  limited to 15% example:fonds wallet = 250 mio iskscorp tax = 100 %fond tax = 15%  from every incoming corp tax goes 15 % seperate into the fond wallet monthly incoming: 1 bn isks= fond wallet: 400 mio isks   end of the month shareholding bank wallet   fond capital  = 500 mio  basecapital to cover the shares  + 250 mio from the share owners which had buy shares= 750 mio isksfond wallet:= 400 mio isks =  350 mio less then the shareholding bank wallet to get a dividende, the fond wallet must be minimum 750.000.001 isks.this isks should be splitted then in a % to raise up the fond-base-capital + a payout % tax.upon the raise up of the basecapital, the worth of the shares raise up. u can sell them to the shareholding bank. u had to pay a tax then.if the fond wallet is less then the shareholding wallet, the worth of the shares fall down.not realy risky.but as the founder u should be able to \"ask\" the shareholders to get a credit on the \"fond wallet\".to buy a bpo pa example.pa example:the \" fond wallet\" = 750 mio isks.u need 280 mio isks for a bc bpo. the shareholders vote yes.the founder is able to buy the bpo via this fond wallet and is limited to the 280 mio isks.bpos buyed by this wallet are \"flagged\" and a part of the fond.selling it is only doable via a vote by the shareholders. something like this could cover the trust issue.if the founder want to buy a carrier from this money and the shareholders vote yes. it is there own risk if the carrier is destroeyd.the \"insurance\" money goes into the fond wallet then.perhaps something like this could be worth think about.not perfect!but keep the stone running.bregmac"
"all other ideas aside, let's make the stocks in a corp directly representative of the amount of money in the wallet of the corp. so, if there's 1000 shares and there's 1,000,000 isk in the wallet, each share is then worth 1000 isk. in this way, as a corp wallet grows, then, realistically, so does the value of the stocks. and thusly, if someone wishes to sell his or her stock in the corp, there can be an automatic system in place to pay them the value of their stocks out of the corp wallet.also, in this way, the ceo or directors of a corp can never take more money out of the corp wallet than is the value of their stocks, thus preventing a corrupt ceo from pilfering 100% of his corp's value overnight and leaving everyone else with nothing. if a ceo holds on to 100% of the corp stocks, then, he is still the dictator at the top, but, as soon as he starts to sell stocks off, there's potential for him to loose control.as a side note: to encourage ceos to offload more stocks, make it so that votes through shares require a 2/3 majority, rather than a 50% majority. though, this may encourage them to hoard more stocks than offload... ah well."
"what is worse is that jade ran on this as his main issue and won a lot of votes.while blowing up stations would be cool, there is a glaring, huge problem with this. it is extremely biased towards people who live out of or near npc stations, since they cannot be blown up. so you sit in curse or whatever and mow down stations with your uber capital blob and blow up enemy stations all while laughing as you dock in risk free npc stations. right.derelict mode is interesting, but still wholly un-needed."
"i like the idea of the op - i think if something like that was implemented, perhaps stations could deploy guns? similar to pos guns but they couldn't be controlled by players. they'd work like sentry guns but they'd have the hit points of a pos gun - they'd be destructible and to make a new one would cost x in isk, paid by the corp that runs the station. a maximum of 6 could be implemented  like in high sec  and they'd have similar firing mods to pos guns - fire on aggression, fire on anyone less than 1 etc."
"sounds interesting... there should be a penalty however. like the person raiding it doesn't get anything, so if you built an outpost you can't use this as a method to get some of your resources back."
"would it be viable to have a long term \"decommissioning\" system? something like the magic button is pressed, and an eve-mail is relayed to all players having anything at all in the station, containing information of \"abc station is being decommissioned as of xx day, xx month, please remove your equipment from here  insert more rp fill here \". i'd suggest the timer be several months, as that gives people time to remove remaining items, but also feels 'realistic' from an rp point of view, to pack up a station. as per another idea stated here, it'd be nice to have it sit in space still, so that someday if someone decided to, they could bring the goods and people, repair it, reinstall modules, and get it operating again. it'd also serve as a nice relic. my thoughts."
"i'm with ccp on there being way too many issues with destroying an outpost. disabling all the services maybe for a cost rather than time to repair might be worth doing, but the offices/hangars/facilities etc pretty much have to remain there.i can't really see though that this is all that much different from today, where pos's are destructible and are require to hold the station. the same thing essentially  isk  is on the line when you have an outpost. i think this mainly comes from people that don't want the outpost, but they don't want anyone else to ever have it either. this isn't likely to happen, you would always have squatters, and removing something as large as an outpost shouldn't be possible."
"i like this idea."
"there is a possible impact you are all forgetting about and that is \"ambulation\". just how far reaching will ambulation be? will it extend to outposts? if so what happens to the potential business you have there?just a interesting aside to the topic at hand."
"speaking as a victim of an outpost ousting a mere 4 days after construction was complete, i take offense to this suggestion that it's too hard. it's all fine to make removal easier ..til you're the alliance being removed."
"i do not agree with making outposts destroyable. that would seriously discouarge people from venturing into 0.0. there are enough destroyable assests in eve and i do not support including outposts to that list. people work hard to get the standings and assets to even have an outpost and if you want to run people out of this game, make it where all their hard work goes down the drain with their homes being destoryed- not to mention all their corp assests and ships. i admire these corps that have worked together to aquire an outpost and to sustain it. i do not want to see that be threathened in anyway.in my opinion this would undo a lot of work ccp has put into getting people out into 0.0."
"don't make an assumption  like npcs would be 'weak'  and then reject the notion out-right because of that assumption. its disingenuous and suggests that you're disagreeing for the sake of being disagreeable. if you sit back and think through this a bit more carefully, what you're suggesting is completely compatible with the use of alliance-built npc-response forces.now, although responding to this issue seems to assume that i accept some of the conflations you've made between faction warfare mechanics and the wack-a-mole issue that i don't accept, i will proceed to address the issue of wack-a-mole that you seem to want to ignore out-right and suggest that what you're suggesting assumes and embraces exactly the issue i'm warning against.people will respond to to capture points getting flipped. you even state that it will happen, you both assume and want it to happen. you just think that people will ignore it for a bit. even if that's the case, it still becomes an issue of wack-a-mole. so whether or not you presume that alliances will feel threatened by the first flag-flip or if it will take 50%  or higher  of flags to flip, you still end up in the same situation i've suggested is problematic and am warning against. people will not want to get bottled in anywhere, the won't want to have their tactical options minimized, and, more importantly, they won't want to allow their enemy to have a morale boost from taking capture points. you also seem to forget that most alliances now hold more than one constellation. so you're looking at wack-a-mole across entire regions  and in some cases multiple regions  as attackers will pin-ball around trying to annoy region holders by flipping capture points. there's nothing good about creating a system that makes the most viable capture tactic to annoy people or puts an undo amount of tactical advantage into the hands of the attackers. the whole point i'm trying to make is that you need a system that is fun for both the attacker and the defender. having alliance-built npc responders is perfectly compatible with the conception of sov mechanics that you're suggesting  its flawed but that's not what i'm taking issue with , and it helps to reduce the strain on defenders by ensuring that attackers need to arrive with some weight-of-force to activate whatever sov-flipping mechanic is implimented and that mounting a player-maned defense has purpose, use, and value. it helps ensure that your opponent is serious enough to warrant a response."
"a  you don't get to build an empireb  you have to babysit systems all the time to stop them getting capped or contested. one guy in a rapier at 3am should not be able to double your fuel bill for however longremember, fw is meant to be pvp lite, where anyone can jump in and form a random gang from members of their militia. i'd like to think 0.0 is a little deeper than glorified capture the flag"
"0.0 and sovereignty should be a game unto itself. the game should be settlement explotation and control.settlement: buildings to build up the npc work force. this decreases the labor costs and maintaince of other structures.defense structures these are turrents and control towers and what have you that allow you to defend your territory when people sleep or atleast put some kind of defense out there while your not online.production structures these actual harvest the minerals and resources and refine them into usable products by the other buildings and goods that can be used by the npc's. this should include food production, fuels, manufacturing, refining, general production, research ect.systems with planets should allow for eventual terraforming of the planet which would increase your npc population.the npc population should be the factor that determines sovereignty. the higher the population the greater the sovereignty.destroying either from a full out war or a steady system of raids on a system would lower the npc population.regular patrols would increase system secruity and allow for protection of the population.this should be the game of empire building. you move into one system and change it. then spread out."
"i have some ideas. one of the major problems with sovereignty now is the ability to pos spam an alliance out of the system, and the need for alliances to thus have many, many pos'. it's cumbersome and not fun for either the defender or attacker. what i propose is a system that works as such:alliances may only have 1 small pos, 1 medium pos, and 1 large pos claiming sovereignty in a system.  players may have as many pos as they want in the system, just only these three claiming sov to claim sovereignty, players must first place a small pos and claim soverignty for x days to achieve level 1. to achieve level 2, players must then place a medium tower and claim sovereignty for x days. and the same for level 3, must place a large and claim sovereignty for x days. and now we implement ccp's want for escalating events:these three sov towers would be linked by the game and use seperate gameplay mechanics than the current pos destruction mechanics. players must attack star bases in an escalating fashion: starting with the small pos', then the medium, then large. medium and large sov towers could not be attacked until the small tower has been put into reinforced. a reinforced pos tower does not rely on the strontium mechanic used today. instead, it simply puts the tower in reinforced mode for x hours. during this time, the attackers can attack the medium tower. the attacking force must put the medium tower into reinforced within this timeframe. if they do not, the small tower will come out of reinforced meaning the attack failed, and must start over. should the medium tower be put in reinforced successfully, the timeframe is extended, and the attacking force may assault the large sov tower. when the large is put into reinforced, a 24-48 hour grace period is given to the defenders, and then those towers come out of reinforced and can be destroyed by the attackers.once destroyed, the attackers may place a small tower in system and begin the sovereignty process.mechanics should be introduced to ensure that a 200 bs  and/or capital  fleet doesn't show up and rip through mechanics intended for smaller ships/fleets. small ships should be shooting the small towers, bs for medium towers, capitals for large. pos weapon loadout and/or mechanics such as those in empire complexes that restrict ships should be used. so what if there's only a level 1 soverignty system that an alliance wants to take over? the process is the same, but the grace period starts when the highest level sov tower is put into reinforced. after the grace period, the tower can be destroyed. i realize this is only a rough outline but one can see the benefits from such a system. it eliminates pos spamming, reduces logistical upkeep for alliances, adds escalating events, and makes sense."
"is that responding to my suggestion?  this is zarch on an alt .one guy in a severely crippled  1000mw used on a high slot doesn't leave much on a recon  rapier sat uncloaked and unable to move with a beacon up in system...does sound like much of a threat to me. even a single tech 1 cruiser coming into system could kill him unless he had backup."
"i completely disagree with number 2  and if you really want to lock the goons out, jut set a decent standings requirement , but point 1 is interesting. why do people care so much about that?people inside alliances can already shoot each other if they want to. if an alliance can't manage internal discipline that's their problem."
"not supported."
"im not sure how to go about this, so i'll do the best i can.in the time i've been playing eve, i've noticed one glaring thing thats always bothered me. despite the third bloodlines  being khanid, vherokior, achura, and jin-mei  having been released over two years ago, we have almost zero prime fiction concerning the societies of these groups. the khanid being the exception, as they had prime fiction during beta, i believe.i am asking that the issue be raised with ccp, so that we may have a more full view of the eve universe and its inhabitants. in particular, i find it very hard to roleplay a vherokior without really knowing anything about vherokior society. we have the corp description  vherokior tribe , the information from character creation, and the description in the information panel of the race. the jin-mei and the achurans have even less then this, lacking an npc corporation with their names.edit: i would also like to extend this topic to all societies within the eve universe that have been underrepresented by the prime fiction.thankyou for reviewing this."
"i support this, also add something about the udorians  tash-murkon  and the ealurians  mysterious race mentioned on the amarr timeline.  as well."
"i'm for an all out genocide ending the availability to create more characters of these additional races. selling out to cater to the highly xenophobic asian market was a mistake to begin with. you can make the races we started with look asian enough if you try.where are the blonds? whitehaired skanks doesn't count.how about it ccp, push the pc envelop off the table and make it a real racewar."
"i don't know if there is any jin-mei pf at all aside from the info at character creation . . . i'm pretty sure i haven't seen any, at any rate. the achurans actually do have some pf from missions, though i don't know how much. some of the rp community has done a great job in building upon what little there is and inventing stuff that seems to fit -- i would hope that ccp incorporates much of their work if they expand the official pf. actually, in general i'd like to see official stories incorporate ideas that the rp community has developed.in any event, while it is sometimes nice to not have one's race be completely described and thus have some freedom in how you depict them, and that goes along with the philosophy of eve being 'a sandbox,' it certainly would be nice to have at least a little more info about some of the races, both playable and not  with priority being given to the playable races that don't have much existing background ."
"illegal items can be transferred by placing a \"want items\" contract, but can not be be put on a regular contract for someone to collect. i bugged reported this, but it transpires this is an intended feature. i'd love to know exactly what this achieves, except an inconvenience, and no logical explanation how this would fit in with the back story?"
"here's some suggestions.1  get rid of freeform contractsi have scammed before, but never using freeform - because no one uses them. only scammers use them, there's very few genuine freeform contracts out there. it was a good idea to have them implemented but they're just not used at all. the only reason to have them is to scam - and no one falls for them. so just get rid of them - useless game mechanic.2  lower the tax on public contractsit's far too high - on the market when people pvp there with the 0.01 isk wars or buyout out stock etc, the taxes can be lowered through skills. the contracts system is annoying in that if i set the value of a contract and then someone sets one up 100m cheaper, to make my sale, i have to then reduce mine - losing the expensive taxes  on items over 200m it becomes very noticable  and downpayment and then having the expense of setting up a new contract - this can end up wiping 10-50 million isk off the \"value\" or perhaps profit of an item.i agree there should be isk sinks but perhaps some skills that can reduce them, like with the market? or just reduce them to 25% of their current values or something - it's just too expensive at the moment. why do you think people sit there in jita linking an item and going \"convo me\" - it's so they can set up a private item exchange which doesn't come with those taxes and fees.perhaps a small side effect would be in jita where people would just link contracts more and have less convos - slightly less lag? i don't know - it might help - thought i'd mention that."
"thanks for the wish of luck. can't hurt to try and i still have hopes this might work.windjammer"
"i completely agree with the above service and or suggestion."
"+1 for drone obedience+1 for removal of drone collision detection"
"the issue i see here is that pos's are destructible, even in highsec, and benefits like this is what i see the advantage of being in a corp is over an npc corp  you can have pos's, but they can also be destroyed by competitors etc . i think it would be tough to sell an asset like this that couldn't be destroyed or risked etc, given all the advantages it has over npc facilities.tbh i'm dissapointed that such improvments are not on the cards for pos labs, as they as well as the entire corp/hangar/pos permission system is in dire need of an overhaul. of course this is a significan thing, with heaps of coding and testing time required, so i can tell why they want to ingore it. but it's still something that should be done."
"perhaps u should be able to sabotage this kind of manufactory upgrades.  if u are at war with them pa example, his service will be shown in front of the station like the station services in 0.0 otherwise i would see the only chance to get in this similar to poses with ambulation. and addid the possibilty to sabotage things like this.u could try also let players think about twice getting this, if the monthly tax, needs a good booking on this slots. every day the slot isnt rent = a hell deep - into the wallet.reinstalling such a manufactory should be expensive too.because all the garbage u left behind, eeds a special transport. bregmac"
"re: players are both profit and pleasure-seeking. to balance the different sec-status areas, make asteroid belts & agents quality dynamic. doing this will correct the current imbalance between risk and reward for low-sec, as the value of low-sec will keep on climbing until people finally say its worth the reward of pulling up their roots and moving somewhere new - whether it be from high-sec or npc 0.0. if it comes down to it, let mining ospreys in low-sec earn the isk/hour of a high-sec hulk if you have to, and caracals running level 2s earn the equivalent of a raven doing the ridiculously popular level 4s of high-sec. remove the payment scale that's based on security status/quality and replace it with one based entirely on frequency of use. let it vary enough so that nomadism is rewarded. hoped benefits:- no more laggy mission hubs because massing reduces the value of an area steadily- distribution of markets is encouraged as players spread into previously low population areas, thus indirectly reducing market hub lag- increased motivation for carebears to risk pvp as the reward of low-sec can finally scale to meet the perceived risk- increased socialisation as people seek to reduce risks from mission-running / mining in low-sec - lots more people pve in low-sec- puts the isk back into risk! *budda-ching* expected costs:- hardcore carebears in pve-saturated areas might feel quite unhappy about having their income cut a lot- jumpclone corp availability reduces as far more people use a variety of agents when seeking maximum returns for their mission-running time- some npc 0.0 space can become worth less than low-sec space - some might think that's wrong, but if you're strong enough to live in 0.0 you should be strong enough to lead small gangs into low-sec for profit."
"the problem is in some regards that we have a dynamic player base stuck in a static world.the world needs to be more dynamic.if the markets are used alot in a system and the stations and agents and there are alot of people in that area then law and order as it is should come to the area. pushing out the outlaws and the lawless to areas less used.if an area is not used much then law and order leaves that area.also as an area is used more the resources of that area lessen. and as an area is used less the resources increase.by setting up a more dynamic world that changes based on the population in the area you start to spread folks out a bit more as such areas take on a secruity rating based on the populations secruity ratings. and so the secruity in an area that is high in lawful population grows till it hits the 1.0 cap.but the secruity of a system that see little in the way of stable lawful population decreases.tie in the resources and payouts by the agents and you have a system that rewards moving around every so often but also can help those that don't like change to find thier own homes as well."
"so you're saying that a isk farmer hub, like....say ingunn could be taken to 1.0 sec because they spam local with well over 100 bots. doesn't seem so good, because ingunn, once a 0.3 system now is 1.0, so those isk farmers will multiply...and do you really want more isk farmers? really?"
"terrible idea. eve definetly dont need to be even more npc controlled."
"how would they farm the isk in that system once it becomes a 1.0? sorry have not been to the system so not sure how they are farming the isk in it. but the payouts for any farming of any type would decrease not increase with more secruity."
"i'm almost inclined to believe that low sec needs to be a mid way between 0.0the best way i can think of doing this is the following  though i'm sure i'll get flamed to hell and back for this :p 1  remove sec pentalies for killing in low sec.2  put concord  or some other npc type police force  at the gate so that within 200km etc of a gate it is like 0.5 but the concord does not chase you if you run away. or maybe you can't run away... i don't know yet.all i am suggesting is while low sec travel should be safer that it is now, because low sec is -low security- the bowels of low sec systems should be lawless. it would explain how concord can't guarantee your safety there. it can but only at the gates. you'll see a lot more trafic, and the low sec mission hubs could be frequented more."
"for those of you that say npc corps are partly to blame, i'm doing a shameless bump of this thread"
"i bolded it. i want to talk to the ccp who believes suicide ganking is too biased. csm members can also try to come out of their hole and explain this as well.there is a bunch of good ideas that may come from this but i am worried about ccp is doing a 180 on a game mechanic that has been in eve for as long as the game has been in existance as far as i know."
"as a pilot of a more mature age, i resent the fact that reckless newly licensed rich kids push the insurance premiums up for the rest of us!in all seriousness, i have nothing against suicide ganking, but i find the fact that an insurance company would repeatedly continue to insure, is out of character with the game. if you repeatedly have your ships blown up, in any circumstance, then you should expect to pay higher rates, as you are a bigger risk to the insurers. this would also affect careless victims of suicide gankers who loose their ships also."
"yes to reduced or no insurance. why would anyone want to insure you?yes to transferable kill rights. fun for both sidesno to any concord buffs.no to increased secs hits.yes to being expelled from the university."
"this seems more like a 3 faceted issue to me. to help with all 3 i'd be willing to go with revoking insurance for anyone who suicide ganks. increasing the sec hit is a bad idea though. it took me over 2 weeks to work off the hit from only 3 or 4 suicide kills  not everyone plays eve 24-7 and has easy access to 0.0 .1. freighter ganking. this could easily be solved by reducing the base cargo space of freighters by maybe 50% to 70%, give them some mid/low/rig slots and increase their velocity. just need to make sure that their cargo space fully fit with the best cargo expanders and cargo optimization rigs is the same as their current cargo capacity. this gives freighters many more choices  such as adding a tank  and addresses the mid-sized freighter topic. it is very lame to have a ship that cannot be configured in any way whatsoever.2. miner ganking. start with the removal of insurance and see how it goes. what about having a rent-a-cop option available at stations and have the cop protect you while you mine? the cop will not follow you through gates. use this to make up for the lack of gate guns.3. indy/transport ganking.removing insurance for suiciding is plenty here. it will raise the barrier to entry enough. as is there's plenty of people flying around in afk industrials loaded with cargo expanders, cargo optimization rigs and sometimes with more loot than i would carry in either of my freighters. if people don't bother to put much work into protecting their assets, then i won't have much sympathy for them.if people are allowed to fly afk in 500k indys carrying billions of isk, then mission runners should start complaining because they can't run missions while afk with nothing but cargo modules without worrying about losing their ships."
"do you know why insurance was introduced to the game? it was not based on rl analagies let me assure you. unless our ccp economist is soundly asleep or passed out under a desk somewhere, you would think that he would have pulled it along time ago if the insurance was hurting the economy of eve or wrong. but hey i just enjoy logging in to a game where i do not have to deal with rl like insurance companies sending me bills for my kids cars. and i would be slightly shocked if they had a ploicy for a rifter."
"i seem to remember coping fine, before insurance was introduced into the game. please enlighten me further."
"you would not have coped it with to long. maybe what several months?it was to stimulate pvp game play and feed the bears. players were *****ing about the fact they had to spend a week or more just to replace the one they lost.n00bs were leaving. 0.0 was failing. it was not very fun for the casual gamer that could not spend 23/7 to put together enough funds to get them back on the field. time to isk ratio was upside down. the eve economy was sucking ass.the problem is that everyone is trying to link some rl analogies to game play. who f'n cares. is a god damned video game. if you want rl, go to work, pay the bills, mow the lawn and kick your dog.the question we should be asking is, if messing with or removing insurance right now what will it do to the game play and the economy overall. how many players would it effect negatively.do we have the economy where we need it to ween our selves off of the \"insurance\" pacifier? what is the prostective long term effect? how will it effect pvp?and who is qualified to determine that?"
"i hope this gets read somewhere.i am a suicide ganker - i do this - so keep that in mind when i say what i do below.i think that insurance for a ship that is killed by concord, during a suicide gank should be removed.how can you tell if it's a suicide gank or an honest mistake?simply set the insurance to not pay out, if a ship was killed in the last 30 seconds in high sec.what this means, is if someone accidentally fires on another in a mission or a new player not knowing the rules - they're not going to kill a ship before concord shows up - certainly not very easily, since in order to kill someone before concord arrives, you have to be properly set up to do *just that* - then the target doesn't die. insurance is paid.if the target dies before concord show up, this is incredibly likely to be a suicide gank - no insurance.suicide ganks would still happen - but it wont be for the 20-100 million that people do sometimes now, it'd be for much higher targets.i'm in favour of suicide ganking being in the game - no where should be safe - but right now i feel it's too easy and too cheap to do. it means brutix wont go after a badger ii with 30m isk of stuff in it and it means that to \"gank\" a mission runner would still require 6-10 battleships but it'd end up costing literally 600-1 billion to do. freighters even more - so it doesn't become worth it to do lower targets.this preserves suicide ganking in the game but increases the penalties.perhaps combined with other ideas - increased sec status hit or faction standing loss to the empire you did it in."
"eh ...a few comments on what's been said since last i logged in. these are mostly repeats of things i've already said but the opposition is still using the same stupid arguments so i'll point out why they are wrong - again.1  jihad swarm caused the problem. they are the reason this happened. anyone who can't see that  ki an  is intentionally in denial. you point it out to him time and again and he just blathers on ignoring the facts, blandly stating that his opponents are wrong when he's the one who doesn't have a leg to stand on. look at his replies when he has to supply details to his arguments. all garbadge  see #5 below ... .2  real life is a touch stone that works very well in keeping games from becoming unbalanced. reality is inherently balanced. you don't want things to realistic or the game would turn into work - but people who say that reality has no bearing on a computer game are just ignorant.3  an example of this is lloyds of london - which provides insurance to such as ships sailing in harms way and has done so for hundreds of years. the problem with insurance in this game is that it doesn't mimic real life practices closely enough. if it did it would solve a lot of problems. see my earlier post on this for more details.4  suicide ganking is not excused by claiming it is needed as part of war dec's. it is a criminal action in this game and war dec's aren't. if you were just suiciding those ships supplying your opponents there might be an argument but that's not what's being done. do the gankers even know that the person they're ganking is supplying their opponent - or are they just ganking anyone who comes along that looks like a good target? and - so what if their enemies are supplying their stations with neutral shipping. this is balanced since both sides can do it. there is no need and no justification for indescriminate suicide ganking to support a war dec. talk about cop outs. mostly, suicide ganking is done for fun and profit with no relationship to war dec's. that is nothing but a red herring.5  cnr's are not getting blown up left, right and center by accidentally shooting people in high sec. that's just absurd. there are game mechanics in place to keep that from happening and if they fail to prevent it - then that's a bug that should be fixed - not an excuse not to remove insurance payments to suicide gankers. all you have to do to discriminate between accidents and intent is - not pay the insurance if they blow someone up. if they just shoot someone by accident and then stop - they are very unlikely to kill them.6  also, as i said before, the insurance systems as a whole needs to be revamped. if you had adjustable rates based on ship loss and if t2 ships could be fully insured, including modules, then the fact that someone in a t2 ship got ganked wouldn't be as big a problem as it is. it is quite frankly unfair that the person commiting the criminal act can make a profit from the insurance while the person being victimized is not fairly compensated for their loss. both the removal of insurace payments for criminal acts and fair compensation for their victims are needed to redress this flaw in the game mechanics.7  the problem with suicide ganking is that it is something that can be casually and cheaply done - and it shouldn't be. if you're going to commit a criminal act to get some one - you should have to think about it more and pay a lot higher penalty than you do now. if it was a strategic act as part of a larger war effort then having it cost a lot more than it does now would be worth it but it isn't. it's just a way to have fun and make money while taking advantage of a hole in the game mechanics to do so.8  the gankers have not debunked or answered anything. all they've done is to present the same lies and distortions they always did."
"9  and no this will not stop suicide ganking it will just make the penalties a little stiffer for doing it. it won't stop someone from doing it - it will just make them think a little bit harder before hand.10  all of the pirate arguments against increased penalties for suicide ganking in this thread are nothing but pirate whining. yeah, care bears whine about getting killed but the pirates whine more - when their ox is the one getting gored. the reason you don't see more pirate whining than you do - is because the game is already slanted so much in favor of the pirates. look at the fact that you've only got 15 minutes to retaliate against them. a fifteen minute statute of limitations on robbery - now that is absurd. what was it some pirate whiner said about concord? that it was an omnipotent police force? yeah right. in high sec. what about the rest of new eden? there is no concord presence in most systems and yet - that isn't good enough for the pirates - no they've got to be able to suicide gank people in high sec and get paid by the insurance company to do it.11  the biggest whiners in all online games are always the sniveling cowards who like to pick on people weaker than they are and - then - blame the victim instead of at least taking pride in being the criminals they are. if they had any pride they'd be taking on equals instead of bullying new players and war deccing weaker corporations \"because they were insulted\"."
"when game mechanics utterly fail to map to real world concepts, it becomes impossible to suspend disbelief. you are no longer flying a pod in eve, but feeling frustrated at some messed up game mechanic in a computer game.the people who want suicide ganking seem to have an incredibly myopic viewpoint. the idea that there is some insurance company that happily pays out when you deliberately destroy your ship in an act of piracy is just nuts. the idea that concord happily sits around and, indeed, protects you as you loot the wreckage of a friends suicide attack is just nuts.sure - lets keep high sec somewhat dangerous. suicide ganking and can flipping though are just plain stupid. explain how it works to someone and they are just left with the opinion that eve is badly designed. it is just obviously an abuse of game mechanics that the developers have been unable to fix for fear of making other things worse. it makes eve appear to have a fatally flawed design.so fix the insurance system and make profiting from suicide attacks nearly impossible. keeping high sec dangerous is a different issue.piracy still occurs on today's seas, and is still profitable for the people doing it. it would be in eve too if concord where not so omniscient. perhaps instead of concord knowing exactly who is the aggressor as soon as a shot is fired, they only become aware of this when they arrive on grid? a well orchestrated pirate op would then be to find a target far enough away from concord and to pop it, loot it and warp out before concord has a chance to respond."
"i agree and don't. when things are going their way the hardcore gamers only play defense on the forums which is easy because all they have to say is \"prove it\". the normal happy casual gamers will never visit the forums because what goes on there is not worth their time. then there is those like me that have a job that says \"when **** is really bad in the world your working\" so i spend a lot of time on the forums at work because i can't play at work.just kick players out of the safe npc corps and put them into some kind of war dec or pvp corp so that they can be killed and you solve a hell of a lot of problems."
"some nice circular logic has been added to this thread since i left. \"there is a problem since this thread exists.\" yeah right...anyway, i'm gonna ask you, wrangler, again to please get whomever in ccp that has agreed that there is a problem with suicide gankings to this thread. if, as you say, ccp has nothing to do with this thread, and it's all csm, please say so before a lot of people get their hopes up for nothing."
"you are suggesting reward without risk, a proposition which completely destroys the foundations eve was built on. exhumer pilots must not be allowed to profit in guarenteed safety - the end result will be all the legitimate players getting driven out of the economy by isk resellers macro'ing huge fleets of mackinaws.the reality is that current game mechanics support numerous methods of protecting yourself already. jihadists like myself are easily avoided and/or defeated using the existing game mechanics. if it was up to me, the only change that would be made is a 50-100% increase in freighter hp, but i fully expect insurance to be disconinued at some point.the problem with that particular solution though is that it will only encourage me."
"but they aren't going to do that any more than they are going to make factional warfare mandatory.for me ... i came here from planetside where it was nothing but factional warfare. there was no mining or manufacturing or trading. it was a pure unadulterated shooter. and when i read that eve was going to have factional warfare - the all out conflgrations that went on across the ps servers 7/24 were what i expected.what i got was corporate squabbling.ok ... so i adjusted.i personally would love it if we went to the type of mandatory, all out factional warfare that i expected when i came here - but that isn't going to happen either.*shrug*"
"was a lot harder to make isk then, than is it today, which is why i think insurance should be dynamic.yes, but the line has to be drawn somewhere, and that line will naturally move over time as the game develops and the community too. i agree with you here, these are all important questions to be asked, before such a bold move was taken."
"as always - wrong.the thread is proof that a problem is perceived to exist by a lot of people. you just don't happen to agree with them.they all happen to think there's a problem - specifically because jihad swarm created one.before jihad swarm - you did not have all these miners worried about suicide gankers. now you do. and the sentences are separated to emphasize a point .we'll now see if you get a response.for one thing - i'll tell you that ccp does have something to do with csm. they are taking notice of it, they publicized it's meeting and they posted the minutes.if you can get a ccp representative to state that they went through all that trouble to publicize something they've no real interest in supporting, thus undercutting csm completely ... that would be very interesting.yeah. one way or the other ... i'd like to hear about that too.we'll see if we do."
"for ****'s sake, try to use your head for once before responding. just because some people believe there to be a problem that does not mean there actually is one. that was my point. i'm not surprised you missed it. eve isn't a democracy. just because there appears to be a lot of empire miners and mission runners who never actually plays the full game that are whining in this and other threads, that doesn't mean ccp has to do something about it. after all, the people whining are the same people who refuse to take any protective measures and insist on flying their multi-billion isk ships while watching ****ing desperate house wifes. seriously, do you want the game balanced by those people? i don't. i think they're ****ing embarrasingly stupid.so? i'd say a bunch of them believe in elves and trolls too. that doesn't mean those exist.are you new or something? the whines about suicide ganking has existed as long as suicide ganking itself. jihadswarm had nothing to do with it. it's pretty annoying. just saying.ccp arranged for the csm to be set up. they have no influence over what stupid ideas the csm might put forward. you will notice that ccp doesn't have to do a thing the csm says. nice strawman."
"ha! ha! yeah. at first i was gonna say bs  i mean ... you wrote it so it's probably was  but ... then i looked at it and ... yeah that is what i intended to do. of course - i made it fairly obvious. it's not like i was trying to fool anyone. the point being that you are asking a ccp rep to publicly state that they were just bsing us about supporting csm - which - yeah, i really would just love to see in print. that would be funny as hell. good luck with that.now ... i've emphasized the parts that would lead us  those who disagree with you  to believe that ccp had something to do with this and erased those comments specifically attributed to csm reps:now here is, i assume the point of your assertion that wrangler was stepping away from the statement: to me - this sounds non-commital  as in \"i've got a lot of things to do and am not going to take the time to give you an answer\". note the smilely with the sun glasses.now - not surprisingly - you have leaped to the conclusion that ccp doesn't support this - when wrangler didn't say that. the fact of the matter is - he refused to comment - which could mean anything ... and thus means nothing.but the statements written by csm are very specific as to what ccp is going to do. are they lying? they aren't mincing words up there. they are specifically stating ccp is going to do this and ccp is going to do that.*shrug*anyway, we'll see what happens ... but we probably aren't going to see for several months as it will take them that long to get the code done and most of the developers i've seen don't really tell you what they are really going to do until they are ready to release the code.they make up their minds.they code it.we get to live with it.ah! the server's are back up! toodles!"
"i definately support the idea of consequences for actions. sec-hit on a slide based on the system sec status seems an excellent idea. \"look, we told you it was dangerous and we can't be everywhere.\"tradeable killrights would definately be awesome, especially in conjunction with other ideas such as involving mercenaries in wardecs. it would allow for a serious market in that area. sec-status hit based on sec status of victim is also an idea i support and its simply realistic. if you attack a citizen in good standing it is likely to be a worse offense than if you attack the dread pirate roberts.as for game balance, that is a discussion that i have to gracefully bow out of, i won't pretend to have done nearly enough research."
"yup, kill off insurance. works for me!"
"i watched a hauler get suicided in jita last night. t1 ship, outside the station where 65%+ of all good change hands.i convo'd the person out of curiosity. the mammoth has plain vanilla t1 expanders on it and was carrying construction parts. total loss of ship and all fittings, cargo, etc: less than 10 million isk. the suiciding ship was a raven, it didn't even bother to scan first.combined with the attempt on me while i was flying an af carrying 8 million in datacores  which failed, btw , that alone tells me that something is seriously borked in the system."
"i knew that **** would have some really bad ideas for eve.go play \"the movies\" and ask the devs to create a drive-around-with-cars-so-it-looks-extra-idiotic-addon. oh and don't forget to tell them to remove the trees so you can't crash."
"speaking of which, maybe we should add follow-through to ammo so that when you shoot someone in the undock port of a station and miss, the station guns respond as if you had shot the station  which you should have done .actually making suiciding cost the ganker something is not the same thing as training wheels."
"i am not suggesting anything. i am stating there is not enough risk to suicide gankers relative to their reward. when these changes are implemented it will not make 0.7 sec or any other high sec a place of \"guaranteed safety\". eve has no such place, nor should it. want to suicide a hulk or mackinaw in high sec? want to have that fun? pay for it, griefer.before your \"jihad\"swarm and before ice was removed from 0.8 sec space, there were fleets of mackinaw that were destroyed in 0.8. all it took was a single raven with high racks stuffed with smart bombs. one raven could take out 4 or more mackinaw before being hit by concord. the reward for such a deed was high, but so was the price paid by the suicider. and you know what? i didn't hear one complaint against it. in fact i saw people  miners too  wanting to fund such people in their effort because when mackinaw grouped like that allowed the slow moving raven to manuever in place like that, it was almost always macroers who were being killed and everyone liked that. the reality is that current game mechanics make it impossible for a solo miner in lower high sec  0.5 to 0.7  to protect themselves or even run in any practical fashion from a solo suicider. that's what makes it so much fun for you griefers. attacking someone who can't fight back or avoid you. that and the fact you do not pay a price for destroying a t2 ship.i'm pleased you'll be encouraged.i really am. knowing you're paying a higher price will bring a glow to my heart. let's just see how much more we can encourage you.windjammer"
"tell me.....in that reality you live in......are there unicorns? space unicorns? the original post of this thread could not be clearer. ccp has set up a task force. they have identified short term, mid term and long term goals and spelled out clearly what these goals are. you're living in a fantasy world if you think this isn't a done deal.kindest regards to a troubled soul,windjammerp.s. yeah......a lot of smiley's today. can't help it. i'm just in a good mood. must be all this rat whining. nothing like a good whine from a rat to put me in a good mood."
"while not directly doing anything to the gankers, perhaps some focus should be placed on the victims of high sec gankings? i was thinking something along the lines of concord ships mounting remote repair systems for shields and armor so that when they arrive, they can immediately begin to assist the victim's ship and still attack the agressors.i realize that the ganker solution to this will be to bring more ships, but, then as they bring more ships, more concord will show up and remote repair the victim s . this still makes high sec gankings possible, but the larger ships with more hitpoints would not die so quickly, and might even stand a chance of survival."
"dont worry, isk isnt something ive had to worry about in a while. the problem is that there needs to be some kind of balance here. isk/sec-status are just functions of /played, so the real question is how long should i have to play to recover from one suicide gank? if that number gets to high, suicide ganking grinds to a halt, a result that doesnt actually benefit anyone  macros will drive down your profits, and they are the bulk of the jihads victims .this could not be more false. it is trivial to avoid 99% of highsec suicide attacks. nothing i do approaches even 5% of the speed or sophistication with which roaming gangs attack in nullsec, and yet thousands of players manage to rat/mine in 0.0 systems every day without getting ganked. just because you and the thousands of highsec miners like you dont understand the first thing about how to avoid hostile players doesnt mean its impossible to defend yourself.afk mining is not, and shouldnt be, a supported playstyle. if you are sitting at your computer and paying attention i am easy to avoid. if youre just checking your hulk once every half-hour to warp to the station and empty your cargohold, you really should be a sitting duck out there in that ice belt. if youre willing to take that risk, fine  just dont complain about how evil and unbalanced suicide ganking is when youve taken absolutely zero precautions to protect your ship."
"lolccp has told the csm they are setting up a task force to see if there's a problem, and if there is, how to resolve it. that does not mean all the suggestions, or any of them for that matter, in the op are going to come through. it just means ccp is taking a look. i have now several times asked the devs mentioned in the op as realising suicide ganking is too easy to come in this thread and explain why they feel that way. the only response has been from wrangler  not directly to my request  where he quite clearly distanced himself from what was written in the op. i'm interpreting this as ccp not really knowing how to deal with this one, and i don't blame them. if they cave in to the whines and change suicide ganking too much, they are setting a precedent that the game is shrugging its hardcore mantle and opting for a more fluffy main stream angle. this is a dangerous move."
"i agree with most of what you say, not that it really matters if i agree or not. but, the simple fact is there is already pos/capital/mothership battles in fw. they just haven't reached blob stage yet. some of the corps have the ability to capital blob, there just hasn't been a reason to do so.several times we have had carriers hot dropped on us and we have returned the favor.my whole point in my post was that ccp needs to do something to stem the outside influences. though i fear nothing will be done as jade seems to think his/her word is law. which has been proved in this thread several times, i guess the power trip is now active and in overdrive. what next jade, when someone opposes you are you going to kill them repeatedly until they buckle. maybe just strong arm their corp under a constant wardeck until you get your way and can stop crying.for example: who gives two shakes what you think, your here to represent the people. the proper way to say that without sounding like you have a big head would have been 'the pro is because many players...' notice no i this or i that. you seem to think what you want matters, i seem to think what the players want matters and not what you want. i also think you need to go back to tact school.in your position everyones opinions should matter and you should be open to discuss them. last time i checked this was eve online not jericho online."
"what about letting an alliance join fw, but the condition is that they are unable to claim soverignty anywhere in game if they are part of a faction?"
"see that's your opnion. you're pushing the opnions of six people as 'the majority' when they are merely six people whos views on a range of subject coincide with about 0.2% of the eve population each. the csm exists to bring issues to the attention of ccp. the csm does not decide how the game should be run. if people thought the csm had anywhere remotely near that kind of power alot more people would have voted instead of the paltry turnout achieved because people saw it only as a forum for voicing grievances, not for electing someone to maintain the status quo.don't get me wrong, i fully support that an issue like this is brought to ccp's attention and they hear what everyone has to say, not just the members of the csm. what i do like about this game is that generally ccp do listen to what all players have to say, and i'd hate to see that changed just because the csm exists, it's supposed to be a tool for getting ccp to give more attention to the playerbase, not less.such a statement is a disgusting thing to say from someone who is listen to the views of others. it doesn't matter that someone's view is in the minority, it has a right to be heard, and if there are enough different opposing points of view it will be quite clearly seen. at the moment were're 10:3  players not posts  against introducing alliances into fw in this thread, not an extensive survey as of yet, but from where i am looking from it looks like you only see what you want to see."
"if you want a more extensive survey, you could try one of the threads that discussed the topic before the csm minutes:dev blog commentary:"
"75 supports from 108 posts on the issue threadi'm seeing what players want me to see fitz. just because you are very opposed to this measure doesn't make your opinion more important or weighty than the people who do want alliance corps in fw."
"75 supports from 108 posts in the formal discussion this is eve online not my little pony online. if you don't like wardecs leave the militia and go back to an npc corp. stop bringing your in-game frustrations as a member of a combat ineffective entity to wider gameplay discussion threads. part of the reason i got elected in the first place was because the members of pvp corps and alliances that trusted me with their vote knew i wasn't going to take nonsense from the \"anti-pvp/instanced eve/total security in hisec\" crowd nicolas. i was elected to promote the interests of part of the community who want to see eve remain a real and vital combat game with good support for small scale pvp and dynamic consequence. it was made very clear to us in iceland that ccp appreciate the fact that each csm candidate has individual interests and represents different parts of the community and collectively we cover a wide range of gameplay specializations and focus. in this matter of fw i am 100% convinced i'm promoting the interests of pvp opportunity in eve and rp interests, and the cause of content availability to a broad range of pilots in alliance corps who nonetheless wish to access fw features and conflict.i'm very happy to discuss these matters with people. i've been discussing the implications of fw choices and development options since well before it was released to the live server. discussion does not automatically = agreement however and in this case i am convinced you are in the wrong and i won't be supporting your opinion."
"what? the op is about *not* allowing fwers into alliances.i'm not supporting because i don't support locking fwers out of 0.0 and alliances.there are plenty of threads demonstrating support for allowing people in fw access to the whole game. and those threads also include plenty of straightforward solutions to all the 'problems' suggested here and elsewhere."
"i'm not sure exactly how these threads work and how \"support\" is shown, but frankly there are people against fw in alliances, and for some reason thatthread only shows a thumbs up. so that alone tells me there's already a flaw. you're only seeing the support... and support for what? some thumbs are are support for no alliances is fw. so what exactly are the numbers? i think jade is once again trying to spin something in his favor. of course someone who supports it will show up in the thread and put a thumbs up. the thread is asking for supporters to post. what you don't see are those not supporting it.i can give support to this thread... support as in no alliances or corps from alliances in fw ever.there's really no clear understanding... so don't try to mislead us jade."
"one thing this does demonstrate is why even starting down the road of not allowing fw players into alliances was unwise, purely in terms of community management.we now have a situation where just letting everyone play the whole game is going to seen by many as taking away entitlements."
"since you want to get personal, how about you undock instead of hiding.oh ouch, your right... oh wait a minute, i think i said i don't mind since we have been kicking your butts all over the place. as a matter of fact we mutualed your new war dec so you couldn't back out. i mean come on 58% effectiveness overall, surely you can do better. the point i was making is the so called head of the csm is doing something to interfer with fw just because they can. while in other threads post your nice little hello kitty posts.point taken. but, i have to say the \"i\" this and the \"i\" that makes you sound like your power tripping. just like the non facts of your last post. you tell people their opinions don't matter and yours do. that isn't right, everyone's opinions should matter. i think it's great that alliances want in fw, more power to them. but, they shouldn't interfer with fw in such away that you and your alliance is. if you want to fw join it, don't war dec corps in fw to make it harder on the new players and give them a bad taste. sf sitting around and picking off players that are new to pvp and chasing them off is sad. actually, i should say alliances doing this, not just sf. sf is just the main one causing a headache because we have to go out and put you in your place before we can go out and actually teach new players about pvp. that's not what you said before earlier in this thread, you said your opinion is the only one that mattered. again we have the i've, what about we've? are you saying you're the only one active on the csm panel? there is no right and no wrong, just because you don't agree with me doesn't mean i am wrong. just because i don't agree with you doesn't mean you are wrong. you know sometimes there's a grey area and there is no right and wrong.i think what you're doing with sf is wrong, doesn't mean everyone see it that way. i joined fw to fw not to be war deced by an alliance not even involved in fw just because they can and want to prove a point. doing something out of spite just because you can and to get some cheap noob kills, not that it doesn't happen in fw, make you a very small person in my view. harassing corps and forcing them to pay for you to drop your war dec and making them move and promise not to form blobs from certain points is lame in my book too.i understand it's part of the game mechanics, but so was pos bowling..."
"[continued]to quote you from a past post in this thread.so why interfere and why get your hackles up when you're called to the carpet about it? if sf has no intentions of joining the militia why war dec fw corps on all sides? i know, because you can and you want to.that is why i say the rules for war decing a fw corp should be the same thing as an alliance joining. they should be targeted by the navy and they should be a target to all militia. that's how alliances should join, just war dec a corp. there should also be stipulations to the war dec. an alliance should have to pay for a month in advance, this so they can't jump around. if the war dec is mutual, they should be locked in to it, just like a regular war dec.corps under a war dec shouldn't be allowed to join the militia to prevent certain problems."
"problem with missions: they're dull grindathons for which you setup a perma tank, disengage your brain and mash the f keys.possible solution: make the missions less predicatable with varied enemys and spawns.a problem occurs with this in that they will be harder, but also once your in the mission and something truely unexpected happens you have 2 options, warp out wander back to the station refit a more appropriate fit undock warp back to the mission and hope something else doesn't happen. or try and muddle though with a suboptimal fit. both these options arn't particularly enthralling.the problem is ships in eve arn't flexible once you undock you can't change a hardner for a webber, you cant swap your medium drones for webber drones etc.in our current system during a mission you'd see 10 gurista bs and your go f1, f2, f3, f4, f5, f6, f7, f8.in a variable mission you'd see 5 gurista bs and your go f1, f2, f3, f4, f5, f6, f7, f8, ohhs noes 10 sansha bs have warped in what am i to do? i know f1, f2, f3, f4, f5, f6, f7, f8. it's still not particually exciting is it?the only system i can think off that might truely be fun would be to introduce pets, or in eve terms mercs. offer a selection of npc ships the player can call into the mission, with costs attached to having a particular npc ships available  on staff , having the npc warp into the mission  he's a merc after all , and if the merc ship goes pop  to compensate the poor sods family :   this would allow the player to adapt to changing missions on the fly, it also allow ccp to introduce truely untankable missions."
"i am all for more dynamic spawns in the missions. but it does have to be balanced by type so some predictability can be planned for due to the nature of ship outfitting.   some of that could be overcome with changes to outfittings but that is another subject. the t1 loot issues shouldn't be here while not having to pick-up and handle the t1 loot would take some tedium out of the mission it wouldn't really add in any fun and should go to a seperate thread as it is a seperate issue that deserves its own attention.story lines for mission when you start with an agent. so you start with an agent for the first time and starts you on some standard patrol missions you run a few of those and then he moves you to a couple of special mission types. and so on. once you have the faction standings that unlock an agent your current agent should tell you that agent x has asked for your services if your so inclined. this helps on the finding of agents and moves folks to diffrent areas.regardless the agents should know what i have done for them and remember the things i have done. and the missions that become avaliable should be tied to my faction standings with the corp and the agent. and my rewards should be tied in the same. so there are benifits to sticking with an agent for a good period of time.as for the work and how hard it will be that is a sideline as this should be an area that ccp wishes to improve on. i know many folks have left the game due to the repetiveness of the pve part of the game. also each faction beyond having thier prefered weapons and strenghts and weakness should also have optional equipment they can and do equip. so for example sasha's might like to use warp jammers so now you can't warp out. or angels like to use webs. gurtias like to use ecm ect.. this things give people an introduciton to these systems and how they are used and what to expect when they are used. and how to counter them.more varied ai's an elite fighter should fight like one not just have a tougher ship. pvp mission types. these would be ways to slow introduce some players to pvp."
"i totally agree.for me giving ccp my credit card details is simply not an option after they decided they could not stop themselves from acting like a kid in a candy store my credit card. even though i have barely played eve for the past year i have kept 2 accounts active via gtc purchased for isk. with this change 1 account will defiantly be cancelled."
"i don't think only having 1 option for gtc's is very good for the market. 30, 60, 90 day gtc's will even out the supply and demand.oh well, whatever. at least i'll have battleship level 5 when / if i come back to eve :\"
"why don't ccp simply sell electronic timecodes directly from the website, for the same price as a monthly subscription ? it would remove the loss of income from a reseller, it surely can't cost all that much  being just bytes, you could offer as many time-lenghts as you want for very little cost .one issue i see with more expensive isk/gtcs is that it give isk sellers a boost. when the cost of people 'legitimately' buying isk through gtcs goes up, the room for the isk sellers to operate in goes up. as obviously they would have to be cheaper in order to justify the fact that you're probably going to lose any isk you buy.of course you couldn't expect third party stores to sell the gtcs for the same price ccp would directly, and this would mean many people would probably lose the money they're currently gaining from refering people to certain gtc sites  myself included . but overall this would be a good thing. it was a tiny bit broken before that certain large alliances were essentially gaining large amounts of ingame isk via these referals, so that people could avoid paying the euro price.primarily i see the move to the more expensive 60 day gtcs as move by ccp for the following reasons1  to force euro customers to pay more  as it's now more attractive for them to sub directly vs buying gtcs in usd 2  to limit the people that are doing dark training  subbing for 30 days, then training a long skill while unsubbed, paying for the account via isk / things like datacores 3  to gain back the profit they were losing to people that were subscribing via gtcs  because the gtcs were sold cheaper in bulk to allow for commission paid to resellers the statement that it 'is the standard' or 'will be the standard' i find offensive, as if we are being treated like idiots who won't know better. i don't blame ccp for doing what is in the best interests of running a company, but being fed a bull**** reason like that makes me more angry.i agree that eve may be more expensive because it's a premium product, i quite like not having to pay for expansions etc. but the issue i think is that the game isn't just more expensive in general, it's more expensive depending on where in the world you are and how you choose to pay for it.  granted a physical card from a store should obviously be more expensive as it obviously has distribution and commission costs, but that's not the exact issue here ."
"timing sure sucks for ccp, i was just setting up a second account, but with the inflated prices, that's going into the gutter after the 14 day period"
"its good to see the question of why gtc users have to pay more for eve than anyone else, was completely ignored.mat, sweep... typical"
"jade, sorry but i still disagree.i don't have a problem with the 7 or 10km/s ships. they take some work to deal with but as you say they are expensive and rare. they are special cases and with a bit of work they can be dealt with.what annoys me is that most gangs we engage are nanod. no shield tanks, no armour tanks, no snipers. nothing but a bunch of 3 or 4km/s cruisers and maybe a few dictors and inties and a falcon 200km away.where is the fun or variety?a rapier in mandatory in a gang. if you don't have one you might as well not go out. how is that fun or flexible?you complain about the 'blob' but i've seen just as many nano blobs as other blobs.bring back battleship fights, close range slugfests, snipers, and all the other things that used to happen. we fly nano ourselves, because we would be stupid not to, but that doesn't mean we think it is balanced. let missiles actually be able to do some damage to something that isn't going two or more times the explosion velocity of even precision missiles. etc.let me use my tanking skills, actually give me a reason to fit a repper and some resists on my ship. hell i even use a nano ship for ratting!"
"i'm not supporting this.the bio is supposed to be short.if you want a long bio, then get a webpage and link to it."
"i support this : "
"yeah, because who wants this game to have functionality, anyways?"
"and evemails!  side note, most of the time i cant even put back my ship name to \"lance fighter's abiddon\", it cuts it off, lets fix that too k? "
"as we have the color indicators in local, the need to do info on every pilot is not so pressing anymore, and bios dont need to be preloaded imho.thus it should not really create any server strain  reason for the nerf was preloading of all bios when people jump in i think thus, unnerf this please."
"longer bio's please! side note i want to be able to name drones!!! -long live hobgoblins bob, fred, gary, sue, and larry! /reality check/ -this'll never happen!tribe"
"as a person with a helpful bio, i know that bio space could drastically be improved. at the moment, you can't even fit all the damage types or such. correcting this issue by lengthening the bio back to it's original  and have it so it only loads when you check the bio  would improve this dramatically./agreed"
"this man should be given a medal."
"yes, this can be very tedious! also for capitals jumping, it'd be nice to know when you can jump without hovering over the cap."
"you didn't do **** .... except win a free trip. as many ahead of me have pointed out, you were so busy patting yourselves on the back you forgot to mention the concerns of the same people who won you the trip."
"i'm really excited about evemail improvements, does anyone have a link to a post with any further details?"
"pretty much correct - csm had a chance to do something special, instead they focused on some \"safe\" nickel and dime bull **** and failed all those who voted for themgoonswarm maybe able to push their candidates through sheer force of numbers, but rest of you \"regular\" elected csm better be ready when the next election comes.where is the fix for pos? something that had overwhelming support? i am not talking about a controversy here, like black ops, or war decs, or idiotic suicide ganking, all those things worked, and worked ok, even half broken. very much unlike the current pos system which has been broken for years and takes bloody hours and days and years to maintain when it has to be improved, and is affecting pretty much everyone."
"i'm disappointed as well, as it seems that the interests of a minority of players  0.0 players in large alliances  are being over represented in this priority list.first and foremost should be attention paid to the core parts of the game, in particular the ui. anyone who plays eve for any significant amount of time can sit down and write out a list of things that could be tweaked to make using the ui less tedious and annoying. here's a few off the top of my head:mining laser countdown timersmore tabs for the overview, 5 just isn't enough. perhaps a drop down list for the list of tabs you want displayed. i'd love to be able to set up a group for general pvp, a group for complex/scanning/exploration, a group for missioning, a group for gathering loot/salvaging, etc. the vast majority of the time, i could use 2-3 tabs for the type of gameplay i'm currently engaged in... but since i like to do lots of stuff, there are far more than 5 total.applying all color tags to the local list  i'd love to see low security standing players, for example making similar context menus have the same options... for example, i can't align to a stellar object in some context menus, while i can in others.  why would you have different implementations of context menus in different places anyhow? letting us \"view market details\" on any ui element that has an item contained inside... for example, the info window sometimes has it as an option, sometimes it has no options at all... why the difference?let us cancel warp in mid-flight... if we can bookmark a location while warping, why can't we just stop? it's not likely that you could have the accuracy needed to land anywhere specific on purpose. ever warped to the wrong gate while flying a freighter, and realized it just as you entered warp.. and the gate is 120 au away? sucks!fix the various ways that numbers are handled in text fields. when i click on a price, there should be a cursor inserted there, that's it. i don't want to do anything odd, and i don't need the numeric display to change to something like 41883.1299. where'd the 99 come from anyhow?  i think the auto justification is part of the problem here. for god's sake, let us sort by meta level in our hangers! i can't remember which modules are the valuable ones, but meta level can certainly help!let us export and import overview settings to other characters/accounts. this data is obviously being stored somewhere on our hard drives in some format... why not make it portable?let us highlight our own orders in the market window! and shoving the whole alliance thing in there as the top fw issue... come on! the reason why alliances aren't in fw has been stated, and it's a reasonable restriction given the likely outcome if the restriction were lifted. let corps in alliances in fw? do you really want goonfleet or evolution signing up in fw?factional warfare is fun, but based on the last month's worth of player experience, it could use some tweaking... better rewards, mission tweaks, something to discourage giant blobs, etc.yet, none of that is on the list. instead, we have the issue of alliances participating in fw. how about we get fw polished up and make it more fun first, before worrying about that?and despite what jade said above, the speed issue should be a priority on the community representative's list, as it is obviously a priority in the community! how can you possibly justify saying that this is representative of the entire eve community without that issue listed? it's one of the most talked about issues in the community! it doesn't matter what you think of the issue, or what ccp thinks of the issue... it's what we think about it. you're there to represent us, please don't forget that.it's unfortunate that \"special interests\" seem to have a disproportionate influence in this priority list... just like real world politics."
"additionally, why black ops over assault frigates?far more players have the ability to fly assault frigates than black ops, yet black ops has the highest priority, and assault ships are absent. why?what about the 3rd high slot on the helios?the missing turret on the vulture?the fact that only a few of the recons are really used?all of these ships are more available to the general population of eve than black ops ships... yet we see nothing. it'd be easier to swallow if black ops was further down the list, but you guys have it as the absolute highest priority!i'm sorry, but it's just not that important to the majority of us! sure, it should be looked at, but not before you give the assault frigate class a better role and/or tweak them so they're an attractive option to cruisers.this really doesn't have to be a 0.0 vs carebear thing...  which totally ignores the fact that there are carebears in 0.0 too . instead, it's about proportionality of the various activities that players can and do participate in vs. the priority of the items in the list.you've focused on some special interest items at the cost of improvements that are beneficial to everyone."
"the same flaw the elections for csm had in the first place if you voted for someone that got a low number of votes, your vote was wasted, when if done on a preferential system you could have either re-cast or indicated a second preference etc to affect a change in which 'other' candidate you would prefer to be elected out of the remaining. a much fairer system, instead of the current one where effectively 0.02% of people decide each csm candidate  and the views of a third of the voters are simply discarded ."
"i fly the helios, the reason it doesn't have third high slot is because unlike the other cov-ops, it has a drone bay. so while the fitout for the others is probe launcher / cloak / gun, the fitout for a helios is just probe launcher / cloak  drone . i rather like this as it means you don't have to waste fitting on your weapon. and the drone is handy for popping pods you scan down etc.granted this may not be an effective use of the ship if you're using it in one of the newer pve roles, but i guess that's something to consider. i don't think adding a high slot to them would necessarily make them overpowered since they are so tight on fittings anyway, and not exactly useful in doing damage against anything that can shoot back.i think the reason for black ops being on the list is that they're not really a ship worth having, and cost quite abit. though being at the top of the list imo is a long way from where they should be. because they're not all that useful, as you point out, not a heap of people fly them, so the problem doesn't affect that many people  not flying something because it's not useful isn't the highest order of problem imo , things that you use constantly  possibly because you have to  but that have issues are pretty high on my personal list of things i'd like to see fixed."
"out of curiousity, exactly how did the csm decide the order of these items. you mentioned fist-fights etc but i can't believe that any individual would have looked at that list and put 'black ops improvements' top.sounds like you needed a formal system of reviewing these items, such as a pivot table system.i'll give a little demo on a random list of letters....sotganhdumexywpick one item from the list and decide whether each of the remaining items should be above or below it. effectively that one becomes the pivot dividing the list in two.pick 's' - divide alphabetically oganhdme s tuxywon each of the new sublists pick a pivot and continue.. ganhdme o s tuw x y ade g hmn o s t u w x ya d e g h m n o s t u w x yand evenually you get a nice ordered list.it may seem like a complex way of doing it but it has advantages:a  it is transparent - you can justify why the csm as a whole placed any item where it isb  it should reduce the problems with obvious misplacements. you are asking 'is issue x more or less important than issue y?' as opposed to 'what should go top of the list?' which risks everyone jumping on their own hobby horses.c  it makes the process systematic so people are less likely to get worked up./me removes his maths teachers hat and puts the decision maths textbook back on the shelf to collect more dust.hmmm... doesn't come out as pretty as i would like - for some reason the forum is stripping out the extra spaces i'd put in to make it all line up. i hope it still makes sense!"
"everything caldari is seemingly messed up right now. i honestly wish ccp would just get someone to sit down and look at the ship bonuses and fitting issues and various other issues plaguing caldari in pvp right now.nighthawk is basically a t2 drake, though it has the model of a ferox, i don't think comparing it to a ferox is fair, except it actually performs worse than a drake, which is rather sad when you think about it.while i personally don't want to derail this thread with 'boost caldari' stuff, it sure would be nice if ccp would fix caldari when it comes to pvp.far as the csm not passing this, i don't get it. hopefully ccp does though. go open up the eve fitting tool program and fit a sleipnir and then fit a nighthawk and tell me it's not screwed up. if you can't see the problem from that alone i feel sorry for you."
"this is not a terribly fair comparison. while the nighthawk is aesthetically based on the ferox, it is actually analogous to the drake for fitting. both the drake and the nighthawk have 7 weapon hardpoints, and 7 highs. both shield tank also. the ferox is a railboat, so it's not a fair comparison in regards to grid or cpu. i'm still wwaiting for anyone to explain to me why on earth the nighthawk actually loses grid from its t1 counterpart.keep us posted on how things go tomorrow, jade. i hope you received my pm and can really make it clear to the committee how completely screwed the nighthawk is for grid.and again, thanks."
"crane needs some loving."
"i think a small power grid increase is warrented in this case.all the other blockade runners can fit a mwd and a full set of low-slot speed / manoeuvrability mods. the crane, however, having the least amount of low-slots to begin with, has to use one of them up for a reactor control unit in order to fit a micro warp drive.i know some ships are meant to be better than others in roles - the iteron 5 is the best tech 1 hauler for example, the caldari charon is the largest freighter - i think the crane is a bit too \"nerfed\". it'd still be the slowest after a small pg boost but at least it could fit 2 speed mods.on a slightly related note, blockade runners - i think, with the advent of the sensor boosted heavy interdictor, blockade runners can be caught a little too easily. perhaps the discussion about assault frigates having a % or skill based web immunity could be looked at here - give a role bonus to, say, 50% less web effect on a blockade runner. this way a hic can still scramble a br but they'll have more of a chance to run back to the gate  with the crane using it's mwd and 2 agility mods due to the small pg increase!! :d   and get out. they can still be webbed, they can still be scrambled but they have slightly more of a chance. a rapier or huggin can still double web it  if it can tank the sentries ofc  and a tech 2 or fleeting would do 45% web speed and not 90.still flimsy ships with a rubbish tank bonus but you have to work a little harder to kill them.i think this could be especially useful with factional warfare as corps and players now in low sec need to ship supplies around quickly and efficiently."
"parity or balance?anyone who has flown with me for very long will have heard me launch into my \"back in the day\" rant about how the different races used to have more significant differences and how much of that flavor has been lost. when the kestrel lost cruise missiles we were promised a bomber role would return eventually. but now every race has a bomber. gallente are the drone race, but there's no real flavor between carriers  a caldari ship pilot with drones v used to be a real oddity . i must applaud the diversity of the recon ships.so whenever one of these threads comes up i always want to ask  though rarely do any more, the csm section has given me new hope for forum discourse : what could be done to make up for the deficiency, rather than just removing it entirely?now, maybe nothing could be done. maybe the only solution is to simply increase the powergrid. but let us at the very least entertain the possibility that there is another way?if there isn't, well... *thumbs up* james you've got my support."
"not being able to see the fittings without boarding the ship is an issue too, especially with ships in corp hangars etc that you may not be able to fly  \"can i repackage this ? \"  "
"this. if undocking had a 30 second timer, it would greatly upset people; i don't see how this mechanism is vastly different to the ship-changing one.sure, you need to make a bunch of database calls and find out what modules can be put online and what benefits you get out of it, but exiting the station  apparently  requires calls to learn about everything that currently exists in-system."
"its a feature that is in the game already, you just gotta look a bit closer, tho i admit, it is a bit random.wait till you go the required skillpoint amount you want to unlearn, above your current clone, and kill yourself.good luck."
"the rp community does a lot to help really flesh out the various elements of backstory in eve. while certainly not everything some have proposed is very good or logical, they have, collectively, created some of the best, most interesting, and most internally consistent information we have on the various cultures, places, and histories of eve.unfortunately,  almost  none of it is official.while obviously it would need to be done carefully -- and i don't know if the above method is the best one or not -- i think it's high time that some of the 'unofficial pf' rpers have created becomes official."
"yes!!! firefox in space anyone?"
"what!? and deny the people who stay in starter corps so they can brag to new players the chance to feel like big boys? perish the thought."
"the game was designed in a way that means that you're not supposed to be able to wardec everyone, empire is not supposed to be lowsec/0.0. people are complaining at the other end that wardecs allow people to grief too easily, because if you give up having a corp chat, soverignty, pos's, standings and the rest, in exchange for being in an npc corp, i kind of figured it was fair.  people complaing about wardecs being to easy, and people complaining about being able to avoid them = balance . if people were forced out of npc corps i'd have to agree that wardecs would be too easy to grief with, and their cost should go up exponentially.personally i think if people leave a player owned corp for an npc corp, you have 'won' the war. ccp don't want players to be griefed out of the game, the war dec mechanism is there for cutting hostile supply lines, attacking pos's etc etc. highsec while not completely safe, is supposed to be alot safer than 0.0, and a sanctury for newer players  that is players that haven't played much which does not correspond to the age of the char  to learn the game and escape the hassles of constant pvp."
"no to cnr raven in nub corp"
"great idea, one of most frustrating aspect of gaming is the inability of war deccing npc corps. this is still not perfect, but best alternative put forward so far.ps: and how do i do the thumgs up thingy?"
"good idea. npc corps should be just for beginners.there is a checkbox when you post that you have to click on."
"i like the overall idea of moving people past a certain point on to other corps. but i think 6mo is a bit much. more like 3 months would work.but those other corps should be varied and not at war with anyone by default. but can have war declared on them by other corps.anyone with a faction standing of say 3+ with a corp should get an option to join that corp if they are in a newbie corp. the player that joins that corp then gets faster faction gains with the corp doing missions. but that npc corp can have war declared on it. a corp that declares war on an npc corp would then lose all access to that corps stations and facilities. and would then get a corp standing with that corp of -1 or more. so there are far reaching effects. plus they would be kos to that corps pilots both npc and player. this also allows for pvp missions from agents   they should be optional to take  . this could also go into allowing corps to take over stations by the npc's and other aspects making war dec and war in secure systems more dynamic and flavorful."
"this is such a bad ideaforcing people into war is wrong... if someone want's to play a singleplayer version of eve in a npc corp let him... why not? he's contributing to the economy and not hurting anyonei agree that adding of some form of pvp npc corps with some other extra benifits is a good idea but only as an option, not some automatic time dependent methodbut that exists currently with the militia corpsenhancing diferent options and expanding the game: yes, forcing people into anything: noi might slightly agree that avoiding wars by running away to an npc corp is wrong.but what should a corp do when faced with a far superior enemy?you could maybe add a \"cancel subscription\" button wich apears when wardecdi dont get it.if you wardec someone and they disperse their corp and join a npc corp... isnt that kinda like winning the war?anyway i never understood griefers, maybe that's why i hate this ideasimple sollution is to wardec a pvp corp that's the same size  or stronger  as your own and they wont run away from a war"
"i don't think you have any idea how badly this would harm the casual player base and industry sections of the game.if you want to pew pew everyone, all the time, counter-strike is that way ---->in the meantime, ccp themselves has acknowledged that war all the time for the sake of war is not generally a good thing. look at their past decisions on things like the privateers nerf and comments currently about wardec system issues./not supported. i happen to like playing with my friends, who would most likely leave if this was implemented."
"not agreed.as a member of an npc corp, i enjoy helping new players out, and the rookie chat is too much of a headache with trolls and spam for them to learn anything. also, it's been shown that over half of the players are not interested in pvp, so forcing lone wolves  we have horribly broken fleet mechanics in npc corp  to suddenly become targets that are wardecced 23/7 is not a good idea.there are many disadvantages to being in an npc corp. we can't put up poses, and if we get attacked or attack others, help is nigh worthless. fleet mechanics still use the lone wolf idea, with no shared aggro.maybe have the ability to wardec players for a nominal charge, but only those players who have a -1 or lower security status  to prevent griefing of new players . you might also be able to wardec players if they have less than 10 agents in their listing  to eliminate macroers, or at least hinder them some . otherwise, this idea would destroy the playerbase of eve."
"if players don't want to move to the tier2 npc corp, then how hard is it for them to create a player corp? very few griefers are going to go to the trouble of war-deccing a single person corp unless that person has really done something to annoy them, and thats what war-decs are for. consequences for actions..."
"1 person corp? omg i forgot it cost 5mln to make ;/ and lvl 1 corp managment ;/"
"if someone annoys you, block them."
"no support. a well worded op, though. nice. your proposal will tick off a large number of subscribers who will quit if it's implemented. that's the big reason ccp will not allow something like this. it also ignores the fact that some people like to engage in pvp using means other than straight out \"pew pew yer dead\".and where would all the pirate alts go? where would pirate mains go when they have to ditch their corps when it gets too hot because of the terrible things they do?what has someone done to make you frustrated with not being able to get at them? dared to talk back to you in local? you seem able enough with words that you should be able to best someone in a verbal war. seriously, though, if you're ticked at someone in eve, there is always a way to get at them if you're willing to pay the price. sounds like you're just looking for a more convenient way.regards,windjammer"
"to be honest, i probably wouldn't bother going after any of those people. i just see npc corps as being related to several other threads and issues, for example suicide ganking. one of the defenses of easy suicide ganking is that 1  macros hide in npc corps2  0.0 alliances keep logistics alts in npc corps3  too many players try to hide in the npc corps.my idea was an attempt to fix some of the weaknesses in npc corps and clear the way for other issues that touch upon npc corp immunity to be resolved. and once again, i really don't see the difficulty in forming a 1-man corp if thats what someone wants to do to avoid an npc corp war. hopefully, though, it would lead to the formation of 2-5 people corps of friends. cooperation and teamwork is integral to eve, and necessary for players to try a few other playstyles if they want to."
"this suits ccp's stated desire to have more things a small raiding party can do to inflict damage on an opposing alliance.i would like to see their contents lootable on destruction to make it worth the time/effort for a small gang, but sufficiently tedious to destroy that it would try the patience of a large fleet so you don't get your space wiped of them by one fleet you can't counter.more stuff to blow up is always a good thing = "
"this idea has a good deal of merit, but i believe it could be advanced. a more advanced idea i put forth a while ago was the ship-based habitats  sbh . the information is available on my webpage."
"as long as the minor adjustments mean less waste i agree.i have invested a huge amount of work in the pos,but due to the 10% additional waste an components and ships,the profitablity is low.empire stations might be cheaper, but not available many times.i want to accomplish a profit using my own factories."
"who what? you're joking right. jump freighters are awesome.what used to take 6 trips in a carrier you can do in one with a jump freighter, and you can do it by putting everything into the one hangar instead of splitting them into cargoholds of ships in ship maint bays etc. and you can jump right out of highsec. granted they require escorts  allthough for the most part a single carrier is plenty , but 0.0 logistics is already the easiest it's ever been. i mean i personally ran 32 pos's spread across 3 0.0 regions. doing all the hauling of fuel and moon materials myself. they're not more hassle than they're worth precisely because they can do so much compared to anything else. they make 0.0 logistics incredibly easy, you can make billions upon billions of isk with them per week  i can make 3+ b isk a week using a jf, and most of that in a single return 0.0 trip .this is done and dusted, carriers are good enough for moving more valuable / smaller items, assembled ships etc. if you want to move more cargo, you make more trips or you use a ship designed to move things, not one designed to do damage, tank, remote repair etc.you're not exactly in a small corp or alliance, so i'm not exactly sure what the issue is other than perhaps you want to be able to do everything yourself and never have to rely on others ? slight newsflash, this game is about people working together."
"moving this to jita park."
"removing them and giving players effects of all learned would cause all the old players who trained em to complain.."
"problem is that they burden if handled wrong, but add nothing worthwhile to the game if handled well.i'd happily give up the time i spent on learning skills to see them all set to 5 on existing and new characters. the community benefits from making the game fun for new players. it does not benefit from new players having to suck it up just because we did."
"cry me couple of rifter sized tears and train what you want to train, its rpg..."
"think of the logic and storylne also.which sounds more realistic:the developement of a ship to do long range deep space exploration and study of the various phenomenon found in the universe including evegate and rogue drone study.the development of station sized ships to allow for facilities to move about where ever and whenever you like.hmmmm.yeah, i would have guessed \"exploration ship\" first but who knew?can you imagine the dd weapon on that super capital ship?truly a toy for the large corperation and it should be implemented imeadiately as this would impact the most people with least effort.and really, it is the most logical step in making planets that can cruise around and fight.you cant have 10000 in a single server battle but you can have one ship that takes hundreds to operate properly with almost no lag.what a great idea. soon they will introduce the anti-cloak devices to make sure those not in the dev run alliences will have to stay in 0.0 or die.honestly ccp, there is more to this game then what you guys are obviously focusing on.for gods sake please open your damn eyes before you screw this game up too bad.as it is now many of us are only wasting 15$/mo till something better comes along, hoping you guys stop this \"we are the devs and this is our game, play our way or get out of the way and take this substandard crap and give us your money, we are busy trying to make allience more fun since we run them\" crap before you ruin it beyond repair."
"don't forget, one of the reasons people would like to see mobile stations is to replace the titans by modifying it's role  like removing ddd and replacing with station services , thus solving a huge balance issue and not just creating a new toy. that said however, there is a hole where t2 bs with tier-3 hulls should be. as long as they are adequately expensive for the convenience they provide, exploration ships wouldn't break the game."
"ok, im talking about nano ships and all you whiners out there and this goes into learning skills? i could not give a flying **** about learning skills!. the thing is, everyone wants to nerf nano ships. i trained cruiser 5, the ******ed electronic upgrades 5, and all the t2 **** to fit it with. now some noob comes along, goes i cant win against him and demands it be stripped from me because he doesn't want to train cruiser 5. **** off with the learning skills, it's the time investment *****es. keep the post on track. i don't want to hear your whining about learning skills. props to my nano bro's who keep ****ing everyone else off.suvliana"
"totally agree with this thread - whiney threads are literally everywhere - and normal threads suddennly seem to turn into whiney threads. to a pretty far extent i trust ccp to manage the game, i really like to see the players having input but when it comes to balancing the game, making it fair or unfair, fun and easy for new players yet still having a big difference between newbs and veterans, i say just leave it to ccp and play the game you whiney little *****.vega"
"hello all.eve prides itself being close to real life but so far it has a lot of security holes tied to corporation inner workings. my old corporation fell victim to theft, one of the trusted 10 directors did it, but none of them can be directly linked nor case proven, the damage is not so much into amount of things lost but in the broken trust. there are no tools to see who was on at a specific time in specific station, no tools to see corporation hangar access logs, no tools to restore what happened during the time of the crime. i understand that ccp wants to have a danger feeling and such things are considered native to the game but if it is to follow the \"reality factor\" then you would of called crime lab to do the analysis and find the person responsible, you would have evidence and ways to track it, in current state there is no such thing in eve.if you cannot improve on current corp tools then just add 1 or 2 special hangars that work as secure containers that have full logs available, but do something cause this thing is on total rampage. this will not stop thieving, i know, its not the goal, goal is to have tools available to track a silent bastard and stop good amount of people getting hurt by the act of a coward, at current state i see it being more of a exploit than a game play feature.thank you for reading my rant."
"why is it i see people saying nerf this nerf that boost this boost that yet the real problem in the game that needs fixing for a better game is lg i mean anything happens game lags big fights and everything lags for nearly every one i dont suffer lag that much my self part from beening in lag city  jita  but seriously stop saying we need boost's and nerf's that make more people whine when they take effect which at the end result makes other stuff nerfed for there benefit just fix the lag ffs!!!"
"i'm curious what if any dicsussions there were concerning ccp's plans to improve their server hardware. they've been awful hush-hush about their plans to upgrade and eliminate server-side lag. did anyone from the csm bring this up? was this topic banned by ccp? with all the complaints about lag i'm surprised there wasn't a five minute conversation. considering the large number of threads started concerning this topic, i'd really like the csm to push ccp for some information.i was hoping the csm would be able to get a sneek peak at what improvments were in the works. if i knew that the recent price increase was going to cover the cost of implementing the proposed new 'supercomputer' server farm, it would be a lot easier to stomach. i think ccp should reconsider it's stance of keeping players in the dark concerning it's plans for development in this area."
"ccp is not hush-hush about it. they are implementing an infiniband system."
"as a very skeptical person in life, i'd just like to say.. after all the hardware upgrades that were going to give the playerbase less client-side lag have worked perfectly for about a week then the proformace drops back to normal  read slow  performace.i'm not going to say it won't do anything for us, but going off ccp history of boasting on how much it will improve things can be taken with a pinch of salt, and how long have they been implementing it now does anyone know?"
"that twelve word responce didn't do it for you either huh?"
"things were improved, but ccp keeps adding new elements so all the improvements drown into new more complex content and as such create illusion that nothing has been improved.server lag is and always will be issue, well, until the time when they implement the system to load balance nodes themselves, there were few explanations on last fan fest and on some devblogs and news items, so if you want to learn details do some digging.ah yes, one more thing that always grows with improvements - concurrent user amount, so that eats up the free resources as well"
"very much so."
"rfc"
"thanks ccp/csm for finally posting the minutes."
"funny there is not mention of this in the meeting minutes.it seems that it was not raised to ccp at all. next time stick to what you can prove officialy.i suggest we will continue voting on this one still to keep it on the top and don't trust the csm until we see it in the official meeting minutes."
"yes, i agree with this as well."
"if this topic was discussed then please tell us what was said, i too didn't see this topic come up in the csm meeting minutes, though i would like to know what was talked about on this topic, seeing as you guy did bring it up... right?"
"support your dead horse! csm, would be nice to hear from you people, what happened when this issue was \"brought to ccp\" - was it even? i mean, skill queue? eve has been ok w/o it for many years now, and seems we been doing fine, and it is not as urgent as functionality of the pos. aggression timers, sale order by standing, empire wars? suicide ganking? wtf? 3 days csm had to bring this issue to the table! all the issue listed although important are not life-sucking doldrums of what pos system really is! all are much more controversial than the pos issue, all are \"niche\" issues, that have various responses. yet, the only idea that would alleviate the blight that is pos management at the moment, the issue that has universal support - did not make it to the table, even though we were assured by csm that it will be? what happened?"
"signed."
"signed"
"i heard someone mention a while back that wars were flawed, because there are no victory conditions. so it is currently: i can kill you for joining a corp, and as long as i pay a small fee.... i can kill you. well wars are fought for all kinds of reasons, but i do not see the reason for unrestricted war. most wars are fought over territory. especially wars involving corps....  businesses fighting for resources, etc....  so i ask, why not make wars regional? charge a fee for each solarsystem/region. also since the wars are now limited to a regionintroduce vendettas. kinda like a and extreme bounty that is exclusive to the involved parties."
"/signed"
"yes please!!!  bump "
"i've been working on a ship designed to work behind enemy lines against larger numbers. anyone serious about wanting to use black ops and work as a covert strike force, please read my proposal for a new ship based on the high damage bc hulls for hurting entrenched enemies. after reading what you all have to say, i believe these ships are very suited to each other.combined with the recons being very adept anti-support ships, i believe there's definite potential for these ships to work together and keep the defenders on their toes without bringing new challenges to sovereignty.i've heard of a ccp test for appropriateness that goes, \"can it happen in real life?\" can ninjas fly around on rooftops and evade attacks through use of shadows while raining down subtle tools of quick death on the guards? when the guards are protecting against traditional attacks, yes. i hope this ship class to evolve into that role.m ._. m"
"look beyond 0.0 and you'll see a use. as a low-sec pirate, i'm really looking forward to a working jump bridge. one of the biggest problems in low-sec pvp is actually getting a fight in the first place. gangs are usually small enough that a few recons jumping in can turn a hopeless loss into an effortless win, instead of just getting ignored in a 150 man blob. the problem is your opponents are going to be reluctant to commit to a fight with those recon pilots in local and/or on scan. putting them on the other side of a black ops jump bridge gives a false impression of your strength, and lets you lure the target into a fight they'd otherwise avoid.and yes, nano gangs are nice, but two points:1  nano gangs can't hide very well. sure, they're nice if you can get a fight, but they're much less useful when your targets won't leave the gate/station. everyone knows a gang of vagabonds and ishtars is going to be a nasty opponent, and that tends to scare away targets.2  with a black ops, you can jump nano ships of your own in. black ops get much better if you can bridge in a couple nano-rapiers, and this is what the fuel bay solution is supposed to fix.another potential use is bridging in a support fleet for capitals. dropping a couple carriers un-supported is a good way to lose a lot of isk. dropping a couple carriers with some falcons and nano-rapiers is a good way to get some killmails.of course the cloaking ability is almost completely useless, i'll concede that much. but the jump bridge is a powerful tool for those of us who don't have a pos bridge network and a dozen titans on standby."
"oh please god. let there be a skill cache.i don't care how weak the implementation, or how stringent the limitations, any crumb of skill caching would let me sleep at night instead of waking up at 3am because i forgot about skill training and got a reminder from eve-mon.m _ m"
"as much as deployments suck... i still think this is the worst possible implementation idea.if the queue were that long, then ebay sellers would just mass produce even more freighter/titan pilots.i still vote for a single skill to follow the current, without time limits. that way someone could take a couple weeks vacation if needed. sure, it wouldn't address a deployment... but not everyone suffers that particular issue at work."
"look i agree a skill que would make people be more afk and result in unnessissary character farming. not good stuff. however the way things are is just downright crappy, irritating, and inconvenient. why not and idea i put up about a year ago. just set a 24 hour emergency skill. basically if you're current skill runs out and you can't switch your skill for any one of many reasons, downtime issues, unforseen problems, even convenience your emergency skill will begin training. of course after 24 hours it will be put on hold.this way you still have to log on to change skills, but it won't be as inconvenient."
"skill queue good. if you want me to discuss skill queues with you, go post in the large skill queue thread in features and ideas.personally i'd prefer the queue to have a maximum duration on the queued skills, and if the queue is longer than the duration, then you just can't add skills to it. no limit to the number of skills in the queue.i'd also recommend the queue being a few weeks long so that people can go on vacation without having to worry about setting a long skill when they may prefer to get a bunch of shorter ones.naturally the queue should be disabled for people who stop paying their subscription."
"i know this have been discussed and maybe allready gamedesigned but...if ccp think logging in makes us play the game, that's right. but i think ccp can understand that a lot of low level skill with less than 24 hours are difficult to learn, mostly because when you logs in the game, you are in your spare time  the time you are not in your irl work/school . the next day, most of the time, you can be in front of your gaming computer 24 hours after.imho, a good compromise would be something like that : when you dock in stations named \"x school\" there is a new service named \"skill program\".when you click on the button, you have a variety of choosen skills to learn  for military school, that would be military skills . each skill you choose have a price  creating a another sink this way . the price for each skill would be something like  wanted level * hours needed to train that level * skills allready in the queue *1000 isk.when you agree for a program, you pay the total of isk needed and you start training immediatly. you stop learning when you dedock from the school.example : you dock in republic military school, you want to train afterburner from 3 to 4 in  say  18 hours and large projectile gun from 3 to 4 in say 20 hours.you also would want to train mining and medium blaster but it's not in the program of the republic military school.you pay 4*18*1*1000 + 4*20*2*1000 = 232 000 isk. you start to learn when you are agree to pay and you can pay. you stop to learn when you dedock.-edit- i want to train titan from 0 to 5. i pay 1*10*1*1000 + 2*100*2*1000 + 3*400*3*1000 + 4*8000*4*1000 + 5*32000*5*1000 = +/- 1b.-edit2- in ambulation, what about your character to become a npc, walking around from class to class in the station. well, whatever anyway : "
"i would like to indicate my support for a skill queue. please make this your first priority. the game is pretty swell, otherwise. but this one issue gives me a large pain.my preference: one skill in training, one skill queued up, plain and simple. let them run to completion, regardless of account activity, logins, character skills, etc.but any queue is better than what we have now.this would allow me to have multiple alt accounts active. as it stands, i get too frustrated trying to wrangle skills on more than one account, so i allow them to cycle into inactivity on a long training time skill.so this would be a winner for me, and for ccp  more of my accounts active at once .note: as to character farmers, my take would be that it might increase farming characters. increased supply >>> decreased average price for characters >>> decreased incentive for farming. so it would likely all balance out if the economy were allowed to act on the change."
"kweel - while everyone keeps suggesting that we need more places for isk to be spent, i don't think this is one of them.as you stated yourself, you'd pay a certain fee in order to train skills specific to that station. so no one in their right mind is going to give it up early and waste their investment. ccp said they wanted to encourage players to stay and play when they log in. so they certainly aren't going to make a system that will restrict you to that station for the next month while your queue trains.blue - i agree, to a certain extent. if you can't/don't want to afford several accounts at once, then don't run several. but the intent is to avoid someone setting a lengthy queue and then stop paying for the account until then know it's finished. ccp won't implement a system that lets people get further in the game, and prevents them from making their monthly income.farmers are another issue. and saying \"the market will run out\" is saying there won't be demand once everyone has a titan/freighter/mothership/rorqual pilot of their own. if everyone can fly the best, then there's nothing for them to strive for. you think fleet battles are bad now, when people bring 10 titans. imagine the fight where everyone bought a titan pilot, and that \"blob\" is nothing but titans."
"sweet!whatever the limitations would be, it will be welcome. as said though, leave the current skill training when account is disabled, just disable queue and dual training."
"the idea the forcing players to play when they don't want to is a good thing is just weird. one of the best thing about eve is that there is no grinding to \"level,\" but forcing people to wait around to change skills cause another type of menial play. playing a game shouldn't be a job."
"/signedbtw.. to quote: why can't ccp say this themselves?"
"i can't believe it. this topic has so much support, but ccp won't do anything about it."
"420m+ isk for 60 days of play. what a deal! great job ccp."
"whoever made thisplease visit your user settings to re-enable images.needs to make one for the gtcs"
"dude relax. if the system was not broken folks would not be corp hopping."
"#ERROR!"
"why not a ship too? :p \"veldnaught.10% bonus to veldspar mining per level.cannot be trained on accounts who aren't chribba.\""
"can't believe i'm doing this, but i fully support this idea, provided that the building of said modules requires nothing but vast quantities of veldspar ore to be utilized in its construction."
"lol, total support, same for fighter size mining drones! 1b isk bricks that can mine! oh yeah!"
"good enough for me."
"why not fix the freighter/jump freighter first?slots should be given to these ships before coming out with another ship that is intended to carry cargo. coming out with more ships while not addressing the issue with these is simply dancing around this issue. one of the great things in eve is that ships are very customizable. ccp even provided rigs so we can further customize our ships. then you suddenly hop in your freighter and it's like hitting a brick wall...you can't do anything to customize it at all! these 900 mil ships are as pathetic as shuttles.i would like ccp to do the following to freighters/jump freighters before releasing another cargo ship:1. decrease the cargo space by around 50% to 70%.2. give them mid/low/rig slots.3. make it so the cargo space with all t2 expanders and optimization rigs equals the cargo space of current ships.4. increase base velocity so it will match current ships' velocity when setup with expanders.5. allow these ships the flexibility of fitting defensive, speed, etc. modules.the above changes bring these ships more in line with all the other ships in eve. it gives us choices. hostiles don't automatically know our ships stats. we can setup to tank with the ships well enough to prevent getting suicide killed."
"would there be any possibility of increasing the # of manurfacturing / research jobs a player can perform?currently with max skills we are limited to a maximum of 11 jobs, which imo is quite frankly not enough..a large % of manurfactoring, research jobs can take days to complete tying up the few slots we have for days on end.your concidering increasing the # of slots availlable in installations so an increase in the number of jobs we can install at any given time would complement this nicely and reduce the need for manurfactoring / research alts.even if new advanced skills were introduced to increase the # of jobs we can perform."
"giving out tii bpo's through invention is a bad idea imo, as it would turn into just another tii lottery which invention was introduced to replace.a better idea would be a means to produce more efficient tii bpcs without having to spend millions on decryptors...or maybe allow tii bpc's to be researchd to better efficiency... an idea thats been suggested before by the devs themselfs."
"i will try to take these things one at a time.1  players into 0.0 - i agree with what many have said. some people play to relax ans have fun, which does not include combat or worrying about getting blown up all the time in their minds. so, here is one possible idea. create an npc \"guild\" just for miners, industrialist, scientists, etc, that people pay to get into  a large annual fee like 1 billion  that makes you green to all all players. you can only fly non-combat ships but the consequences for destroying one is huge. you also can not belong to a 0.0 alliance  so they don't sneak things in and out  or have an alt in 0.0 alliance. such a group would greatly help 0.0 and let them get on with killing each other like they want to.2. any additional industiral skills should help people, not make things harder. for example, t2 manufacturing efficiency in order to build t2 stuff faster. i am an industrialist and was amazed at the lack of skills available for these activities.3. when i started the game i was amazed that you could directly build ships from scratch. if people do get to build components, i agree that they should take away from the mineral demands on the ships, but that could get complicated - a very big overhaul of the current system. any changes to t1 components would meet with a huge uproar, so it could probably only be done with new items. one idea is to make some  not all just some  of the components for t2 items buildable in high sec space. 4. in order for public use of pos labs, at least some use, would be to allow non-corp and non-aliance people to use them remotely for me and pe research. this would be a huge help for me slot availability and they would not have to have direct access to the pos for use. this does not help with those bpos that require items for researching, but this could be built into the costs of the slot also. finally, it you make bpcs deliverable items that the owner of the pos could not see  even when being made  for which they would not be paid for until deliverable, that may be one way to do copy slots.could to see some of the poeple i know commenting here. take care all, we are the targets of eve you know."
"some minds to long term ideas:the mining overhaul is needed. at least deep core mining in high sec would be nice.  depended on temporary anomalys like gravimetric stroms etc...  which increase the mining yield of the asteroid.special equipment and logitc background should be needed to bring it to a challenge.   npc rats in higher qualitys will try to kill u. trying to permatank them bring more and more to u. not farmable which dont drop wrecks inside the anomaly  split up minerals into elements.with this kind of elements u should be able to seed out formulas.   researchable by the player in combination with the researc agents this kind of formulas increase the quality of the mineral   pa example improved zydrine depended on the level it should increase the stuff u will build with it.  new tech level or modify stuff relaunch a lotterie system: depended on the activity of the player with limited runs of tech ii stuff.this bpcs are on the same level like bpos   me+pe lotterie should run weekly and by no sucess the researchpoints the player throw in for it will be lost.   the player can only throw researchpoints in, if he runs mission for the agent. ambultion is a base for a lot of new stuff around the player.if u ever plan adding a system where pve/ pvp will be possible on stations, there is the chance adding a lot of stuff to the industrials.\"space suits\", \"weapons\", scanners .... split up stations into security levels like now the systems. lower security level= pve/ pvp where u had to fight.simliar to the pod inside ships should be something when u do this inside stations. u will ake up at the clone facilty inside.add a system where a player is able to support a npc corp  buildings ships, imporve station services.... . upon his activity the corp offers special services to him, like doing transportjobs for him.or supporting u with escorts for a safty travel if u transport worthfull stuff.simple minds on things i would prefer doing in high sec in future.i would be also nice to see some long term jobs where the player will be surprised in the end.   means after releasing a new expansion, the most stuff is sucessfull done after serveral days, and thing gots posted how to run the new stuff sucessfully with an low afford of stuff.  this should be not able to forsight withn a week or two.rare/ unique stuff should be avaiable or producable.breg mac"
"ive launched a few bombs, the single biggest gripe would be that they need to always explode once launched unless destroyed, regardless of the fate of the person who launched it. when launching on very large gate camps with mixed fleet makeup its very likely that the bomber and pilot can be killed long before the 15 seconds it takes to detonate, when that happens now, the bomb does no damage or just doesnt explode.. bad bomb..."
"good point and one that shouldn't need much coding."
"bombs would break the blobs when you can break battleships with bombs : atm, the usual 0.0 fleet bs tanks 70k damage because of titans everywhere.with a very coordinated wing, you could plant 7 bombs next to a blob of bs. the problems are range of the bomb, the damage they can do, the damage they can tank until they pop and their price.now they don't allow to break a blob because bombs are small targets. so they are focused by support and 1-shot before they explode. if you want to plant them, you have to get rid of the support before. but if you want to get rid of the support, you have to blob the support blob or dd them  both solutions creates a ton of lag . i think this is not an imbalance. sig radius of bomb and minimum time until they explode are right.i would love the possibility to set bomb to explode when an objet approach them and/or allowing them to explode when a ship emit a signal. maybe with tech 2 bombs and a new stealth command ship module : \"when you activate this module, all bombs set by your fleet explode. you have to be uncloaked and under 100km to use that module.\" : the range of the bombs is a problem. no ingame blob is localized in a 15km radius sphere. increasing the range from 15 to 30, with a falloff, would be great.damage could be right but to break a 70k tanked bs, you need 17.5 perfect skilled bombs. that's a lot of bombs. and if you have to plant them 7 by 7, the fleet have the time to align somewhere else and leave the field  7 by 7 makes 3 planting waves, 10 secondes for each wave makes 30 seconds . that is not breaking a blob. that is moving it to another point of the system, creating lag again. bombs need to do damage so you break some of your targets.what is 4000 hp in fleets ? it can 1 shot most frigates and some tech i cruisers. i think it should create a problem for heavy support too so a 6000 hp damage couldn't be that much of a problem. that change the number of wave, assumming bombs could tank enough damage so they could be planted 7 by 7 again. there, 7 bombs = 42k damage = more than half a fleet bs = a real problem for blobs under 20 seconds.the price is a problem too. sb are paper made ships. having 20m for the fitted ship + 40m in ammunition is a problem. assurance is 5m. nobody would use them until you loose 30m each time you use them."
"i'm not in shares, ipo and all this stuff but why shares aren't available on the market ? this wouldn't work ?"
"a corp's value though is not represented by the sum of its wallet divisions. if the corporation has static assets like a pos, this adds value to the corporation. products for sale by a corporation  stored or on the market  also add to the value of a corporation.so how do you determine the true value of a corporation? if the the wallet never total more than 1b for example, but it has 2 corporate freighters & 1 rorqual, how much is the corporation worth?"
"i don't think a corp stock market needs to be incredibly complex. in fact, in order to encourage player participation it's important that any system is not to obscure - remember this is a game first and foremost.i think we need to understand why a player would want to purchase shares in a corp, and base a system around that. in my view a player would want to buy shares for 3 reasons:1. mid term investment & on ward sale: the player intends to sell the shares at some stage for more than the purchase price.2. long term income generation: the player intends to keep the shares an make his money back via dividends.3. political control: the player wants a say in what the corp does, from the base of being able to vote on issues, propose votes all the way up to full corp ownership.the share seller is selling these attributes - the expected dividend, political control and potential share value. in order to achieve 'trust' in the share option the purchaser should be able to see the following:1. the historic dividend pay out per share and the next dividend payout value / share.  this means dividend payouts should be a automated feature .2. the percentage of ownership. e.g 1000 shares = 25% ownership.how much isk the corp wallet has, how many pos's or bs it has is largely irrelevant provided the corp shows a consistent history of dividend pay outs. after all not all corps make isk purely from a physical activity  e.g a corp that makes isk by making alliances .to buy, or not to buy...its a risk, always will be. but the dividend payout will act as a guide to the historic reliability of the corp  regardless of its income method . a corp with a long dividend history will be seen as more reliable, hence its shares will be worth more and so on.in order to make this process reasonably user friendly any 'stock market' should show the following:corp:share value over time.dividend payout over time.the share 'item' should show:sell value.% ownershipnext dividend payout.the next dividend payout is guarunteed - no one can reduce the corp wallet below the dividend payout of all shares in that given period.i would suggest dividends are paid weekly - in order to provide sufficient div history data and a more dynmaic market.% ownershipownership allows you to have a % value in all votes, including the ability to propose votes and see who else has varying degrees of ownership. a host of 'sanctionable' actions could come into play here such as - increase div payout, surrender war, declare war, release more shares, lock master wallet at % value and so on. one interesting aspect of shares not yet explored is that they could be surrenderd by a corp as means of canceling a war dec: in effect a 'win' condition .c."
"thats true, but its not relevant here. the only consideration is -can the corp make its dividend payments?it might achieve that by liquidating all its material assets  pos's, ships etc , having its members mine until their eyes bleed, singing on vent for isk or stealing a titan and flogging it.what's important is whether you judge you'll make a return on your investment through dividends. c."
"i believe there to be a problem in that outposts serve too many functions to the player, complicating the subject of allowing their destruction.1  offline location. nobody plays 23/7. without a mechanism for logging in and out safely in 0.0, there is nobody living in 0.0.2  storage overflow. need a place to stash player high-value goods and provide a place to put large amounts of goods that have no immediate avenues of consumption or sale.3  station services.4  markets.5  operational storage. you need a place for your ships, ammo, fittings etc. loot. minerals. so on and so forth.there is some overlap with caps and pos's in operational storage and cloning. the most critical function is as an offline location buffer.will look at methods of separating these roles out to achieve desired behavior/enrich eve universe."
"creating an outpost is big acheivement for one corp or a small alliance. but there is only 5000 systems in eve.i don't see a problem when an outpost is shot. it is the same problem when you shot poses. all stuff in the pos is lost. outposts are now havens, you can profit them even if you don't have docking rights, with a jump clone, accessing the market.this is not realistic. i guess when an alliance captures an outpost, the alliance ask his military infantry to get rid of all the lasting guys in the outpost too.what about teleporting stuff in a random low-sec/npc stations when you loose an outpost and allowing to capture or destroying it ? the problem would be capitals ships owned by the beaten alliance ? what about packaging the ships then ?what is the problem with this ?"
"small alliance builds outpost.bigger alliance wants outpost.bigger alliance takes outpost, causing catastrophic loss of investment to smaller alliance and 100% gain of asset to larger alliance.how is there not a problem with this?if you want to know why there isn't more activity in 0.0, this is why. an outpost is your offline presence, but not only can you not protect sovereignty from a major alliance, but they also seize the entire asset, making a much, much higher propensity to gank.it would be like all modules, rigs, and minerals used to construct a ship dropping 100%.i might have said, \"well tough, that's eve. at least you can try to take it back,\" when i first started playing. i'm seeing now though how this situation works completely in favor of established powers, gives them all the reason in the world to go after nascent 0.0 powers, and provides no capability for gaining valuable experience through measured losses.i can insure a ship and limit the pain and get better at being a pirate. the step to 0.0 is the plunge that requires a huge investment that is likely to become somebody elses asset. an alliance that's trying to get off the ground and loses that kind of asset will probably just crumble instead of getting better. since an outpost is currently 100% for the taking and a 100% loss, you see a lot of alliances coming to their first test and getting destroyed. what it means for the empire kids is that moving to 0.0 permanently is probably out of reach and likely to just wind up giving someone else an outpost.i've proposed a new asset to try and fix these issues and the ones of allowing a destructible outposts. please contribute."
"since i'm pve, i'd be happy with a load all command that just worked when docked."
"i really like the idea of being able to group all the guns into one big gun, but the biggest issue i see is how to apply damage from overheating. the server could easily calculate the damgae applied to each gun, but if the \"grouped weapons\" appear as a single icon in the modules area, the player will not be able to see what the damage level is for each gun. what i would do is make it so that the first weapon in the \"weapon group\" shows as an \"active module\" with all of the ammo from each gun combined  i.e. an 8x 800mm ii autocannon group would show 480 ammo loaded on the active gun . then the weapons that got grouped into the first weapon would show up as passive modules that can be overheated and would show their damage state and if they are online or not. each gun that gets overheated would increase the weapon group's damage modifier by the appropriate ammount. missiles might need to be changed to an overheat bonus of damage instead of rof to accomodate such a system. as for damage and to hit calculations, i think they will need to be handled differently from the way normal damage calculations are applied. when you fire 8 guns and half miss, you still do half damage. but when you fire one gun and it misses or hits, you are dealing full or no damage. also when you get a wrecking hit with one gun out of eight the extra damage is nice but not that great. if you get a wreck with an eight-gun group, it would be absolutely devestating. so instead of calculating if a weapon group misses or hits once, it will either have to:a. calculate whatever the tracking, optimal, signiture modifiers are once and then use those figures to \"roll the dice\" each individual gun, or..b. make the damage not random but based on a curve so that the weapon group does x% of full damage based on the modifiers mentioned above. the last thing that i see as an issue to grouping weapons is what happens when your target is almost dead and you fire a shot that does twice as much damage as you need to finish it off. with ungrouped guns you would be able to immediatly fire the un-used weapons on another target. if we went with option \"a\" from above where each gun has its damage computed individualy, then it would be easy to figure out how many of the guns in the group were needed to kill the target. once you know that the server could reduce the damage modifier to compenstate for the guns that are still cycling and let you fire the remaining weapons."
"space whales!the introduction of an npc race that is at least interesting would be nice and due to the quality of the designer many feel that it should be the whales.begin the flame as i am immune."
"i wonder if any fedo act as a remora would on a shark?fully supported. lets blast some intergalactic candle ingredient!"
"only if robots that transform into f-14s and speaker weapons are also added."
"sounds awesome... i second this! they would have to introduce a tech 2 dreadnought variant with specialization in space whale hunting. the question is, what would their corpses yield?"
"space whales!!! yeah! read the thread come on space whales!"
"this is the best idea that have been presented here."
"this reminds me of a certain episode of the galaxy rangers:space mobyi want them back! : "
"i recall another thread on the forums also about space whales and other fauna living between the stars that would make some sort of 'spectacle' if you happened to come across it on your journey.i said i like it then, and i still do ;-pas to whether it should be a new npc race, with all that might imply, i'm not so sure ...iz"
"a  why wouldn't you be able to build an empire? everything would work as is, except pos wouldn't determine sov. to expand on it a little, what if the bunker was upgradeable? upgrading the bunker increases the sov value using the same system as now.b  i thought that was the point? defending your space and controlling an area. as to doubling the fuel bill, i guess i didn't word that very well. what i meant was that the bonus to fuel use given by the bunker would be reduced. the more i think about it, you are right, it doesn't need to be there. i put it in there thinking that it would force people to defend their space but really, they are going to do that anyway. :pas far as it being pvp lite, so far all the fighting i have done in fw seemed like pvp to me. every ship can still be used, just not all of them at some of the complexes. and the bunker fights are all in. how is blob fleets and grinding on pos deeper? i'm not wanting to offend or anything, i'm just not seeing any further complexity."
"if it was possible to manufacture all the trade goods, and convert the pos-fuel from one race to another that would make it more feasible, as it would not require immense amounts of logistics and instead make manufacturing/ice-mining more profitable. perhaps a new pos-module to convert pos-fuel could be introduced that had a loss-rate hydrogen isotopes -> nitrogen isotopes has a 50% base result, which can be reduced through skills.i think that adding materials for eg. enriched uranium could be introduced into different 0.0-ores. and blueprints for mechanical parts and robotics could be added."
"the news/chronicle writers have been doing a great job lately turning out a ton of stuff. it would be cool if they could publish some articles about the new bloodlines."
"no matter what value ccp puts on the % it's either going to be too much at times, or too little at others. why not just let the person who sets the contract decide to add either a % increase, or a static value for upping a bid. this way it'll be a tradeoff for them. hit a higher % and hope someone takes it, or go for the lower % and hope for more willing bids. this way each and every trade can have a reasonable increase. if it's not reasonable the only person to lose out is the contract maker who set the agreement in the first place. i don't get why anybody could think it would be a scam. the only way this could scam is if somebody was stupid enough not to check what they're bidding on. quite frankly how is this different then setting billion isk sell orders on million isk items? you can still only fall for it by your own mistakes.p.s. even then if you really think it's a problem, i don't, you could just set the maximum up bid at something like 50%. not like there's really a reason for anything higher anyways."
"why not have it chosen by the person who placed the contract?"
"aye, remove drone collision detection"
"bumpity bump. : "
"moved as a request by op"
"<3"
"great success."
"so there has been some discussion for quite a while by now, about this. but i think it's in order to hear officially, what ccp thinks.the idea is to remove all t1 loot and replace it with some other kind of reward more lp, for instance . this has several benefits:1. it will free the t1 market, decreasing the barrier to entry for new players2. it will make mining more meaningful.this will mean t1 meta-products will have to come from elsewhere. there are some really good ideas floating around for this:1. allow optional products to be added to a production job, giving a certain meta item depending on the amount1.1 this process could use rig components1.2 or some kind of meta-product which is dropped in low/0.0-sec2. some sort of invention mechanic, lower barrier to entry than actual invention see it as fw is to 0.0 warfare, it's a starting point preparing you for the \"real\" world 3. bpc's to be dropped by missions and things like that.these are just ideas of course. it will eventually be up to ccp to go with the best solution."
"remove unnamed loot, keep named loot. \"named\" or whatever  gear dropping from killing npcs is a hack-and-slash game standard for a reason. i'll agree that unnamed loot should probably be taken out though, since it only serves to make missioners train refining skills, and destroys the gear market for the industrialists. however, in combination with component construction for t1 subcapital ships as in your other thread , industrialists aren't going to need that much more stuff to produce, and the facilities and skills aren't there to produce it even if they did. also, if you want to move the rewards around, move them to mission completion/time bonus isk, not to lp. mission completion is a joke, it's worth about 5% of the value of a mission. i want to see blitzing missions be a serious option - not better than running them, but at least something approaching competitive. also, time bonuses could use an overhaul - make it a huge sum to do it right now 2-3x the post-buff mission reward , and have it decay over time so that it hits zero around the same time as it does now. besides, the lp market is close to saturated right now, we don't need more lp chasing the same number of implants and cnrs. this isn't a pure win for everybody - for one thing, i'm wary about raising prices on the worst gear in the game, because it makes life harder for newbies. this being accompanied by a blueprint change to make frigate-sized goods cheaper might be wise. but i'll support it in principle, as long as the practical concerns are dealt with."
"i've liked this idea ever since i first heard it."
"yes, this would make industry more significant as the module and mineral influx from missions and ratting would become much lower."
"a hearty no.i like getting t1 loot as drops, both named and unnamed. lets me get items to fit my ship with that aren't subject to the whims of the producers/market traders. also can be a real bonus starting out when you find your first arbalest hml and find that it sells for 14 million isk or more. a large portion of my missioning/ratting income comes from the loot drops that i refine or sell. i find that it gives me an edge against those too lazy to do so, and would like it to stay that way.getting rid of such loot drops would also wreck havoc with the way that many corps fund their building projects off of rat loot. i'd rather run group missions for 4 hours than be subjected to a 4 hour corp mining op. it would also make my self sufficient ammo production subject to the availability of certain rocks/minerals in my region of space. would make living in out in solitude even more onerous if the minerals from loot were no longer available as a source to be utilized."
"please explain what you see as the answer for how this would destroy the livelihood of those of us in the resale market.i have over 200 t1 buy orders out on this account and i make a very good side living reselling the very product you are suggesting we remove. there are literally hundreds of us in this resale profession and some of us have been doing it for 5+ years. this would greatly threaten our means of enjoying this game. i have a couple million skill points invested solely to enjoy resale and would hate to see them made useless unless i get into the hauling, mining or production businesses as i dislike participating in all three.so...what becomes of us?"
"i'm with this. it will also effect 0.0 mineral income drastically. who would want to mine all their bs/capital minerals you need to survive in 0.0?i believe the t1 component is not used 'in construction' of the meta item. or else the refining value of the meta item would be greater than t1s which it isn't. so it would be more of alteration  irreversible change  of existing component."
"actually re-sale would still be a very valid business, just not as easy as it is now. you would be getting things cheap at hubs and find places they are needed and be able to sell more expensive. just as re-sale works when working a spot market. if we remove the un-named t1 loot and keep the named all you will miss is the business on the un-named t1 stuff, the stuff that producers would make for ya instead. i'd say yes to removing un-named t1 loot too and have the rig components more common instead or just make loot a bit more rare in general then when no more un-named t1 loot is around. also add a chance to get t2 loot from t2 shipped npcs."
"i agree with this."
"valid does not mean the same thing as fun. and resale has never been easy. there is as vital and competitive a resale market as any other. the funny part is that the most competitive part of the resale market  other than ships  is the un-named t1 buy market. take a look at the buy orders for some of the cheapest t1 items in your local empire market. not a whole lot of margin on resale...a huge number of .01 isk order bumps...not as easy at it seems.but...yes...there will always be a resale market. this change would simply do away with 50% of it and damage the fun alot of us come to eve for. you may or may not understand just how deeply this would cut those of us who enjoy it but please take us into consideration and don't do anything rash without really researching just how this will effect us.also please consider that fewer loot drops and increased rewards mean less production with more cash. looting is a means of production. mission and ratting rewards are a means of isk creation. be careful how you decide to \"rebalance\" an economy that currently works, even if that economy isn't perfect."
"i support this topic."
"dude, come on. the \"real life\" example is so utterly lame when used with insurance or anything else ingame. this is a video game if you haven't noticed. if you want to use the real life analogy, maybe .1% of all ships in eve would ever get insurance. insurance was put in the game for one reason and one reason only - to lessen the death penalty. it was created back when isk was hard to get and everyone flew t1 ships. maybe a change in insurance is neccessary, but it should not be only applied to people that suicide. insurance is an entirely separate issue as well as eve being anywhere near real life."
"yea gods this made me sad.tell you what, if you want to look at insurance, then how about also looking at the log for user input from the gankee. say if the target is on autopilot and hasn't moved the mouse or bothered to speak to anyone then they are clearly afk and do not deserve any special protection.or since everyone is soo concerned about concord behaving like actual police, how about they fine the pilot for not being at the helm and revoke their license to fly freighters in high sec. they could run into something and dammage it.i do like the notion of tradeable killrights.-galananything less is going to make the isk sellers day."
"just one more real quick.risk vs reward.the risk and reward of suicide ganking are both set by the gankee. the gankee decides what will be in their cargo. they can choose to move billions in a t1 industrial afk or they can load a few hundred million, or even billions into a heavily tanked ship and fly paranoid with a scout.freighters can't fit a tank, but they come with a pretty decent one. you need several battleships to kill one and any reasonable scout will spot those bs long before the freighter should be engaged. using webbers to instawarp the freighter is also a darn good idea.provide me just one example where an alert pilot with a scout got ganked? just one. otherwise follow the link on my sig. it's direct from ccp and it's how they feel about playing the game afk.no one should ever be rewarded or offered additional npc protection because they can't be bothered to play the game.-galan"
"ive been ganked on many occasions and lost millions. i may be mad but i think it's fun - adds a bit of spice to life  shame you can't right it off as a tax loss . ganking has been a part of the game as long as i've been playing it, in the same way that piracy has always been a part in mercantile trade on the high seas. when a corpmate got suicide ganked after afk'ing to the jita/perimeter gate and leaving his badger there with a billion worth of cargo sitting in it i mentioned that perhaps it was his own fault - he agreed. but, if it's got to the point where people are being ganked outside a station in a 1.0 system then thats like blackbeard sailing up the thames and attacking the merchant ships moored in london. i know it's only a game but c'mon people it does erode the believability side of things. the other point is that noobs need somewhere to learn the ropes - i know i did.this game is partly based on elite. in that game you had a \"hi-sec\" and if you were a security risk you spent the whole time around a \"hi-sec\" station with a police escort. so, my dear pirates, be thankful for the freedoms you have."
"supported"
"supported"
"supported"
"well, probably right after anyway. i do know its a lot of work, especially as there's only two people doing it. plus we keep being told it'll be ready 'for the next big patch', which was supposed to be empyrean age, but nothing happened again.anyway, i'm all for this!"
"agree, definitely need this dump"
"bring back the 30 and 90 day gtcs please... with prices that are more inline with credit card pricing, thanks"
"seconded. i used to pay the equivalent of 280m for a 60d, now its going to cost me 380m for the same.stealth price hike, not cool."
"this is ridiculous. eve doesn't nearly have the play base of wow, and trys not to mimic them. except when there is profit in it. accept it or not, ccp is losing accounts because they have decided they don't want to lose some cash here and there to make their customers happy. this didn't get nearly the attention it deserved, ccp is just going to ignore it. with a response of \"so what if you have to pay, we rule!\", i find it less appealing to put my money into this game."
"what the marketing side of ccp don't understand is that if they higher prices of gtc's now and cut down on the choice wise of gtc's etc getting ride of 30-90 day gtc's will result in people leaving they consider there selves permium now but what do the customers think. my points of view is that you guys earn well enough from us as we are now but the lack of custumer help etc petitions been answered in answered i dont mean time wise i mean in the fact that we get the same old answers back that say somewere in the answer we can not find this in our logs, maybe you guys delete them and say this because i no i have set my cach on low but i still get the messages that indicate there is a log of this and leads to the server's fault etc lag.the future we are not bothered about we live in the present not the future you guys on marketing side should look at the present that people are buying 30 60 90 and higher gtc's for a settled good price and with the increase of petrol electrice gas and other stuff does not help with the price rise because everything is highering part from our wages so if anything ccp marketing side should take this to consider and leave the gtc's how they used to be and maybe work harder than sitting in a chair counting money."
"and i use 90 day gtc's since they are good for there price and it saves me hving to find the cash/isk within 1-2 months"
"i can see this killing eve, there are many of us who paied for the game with gtc bought with isk. and now your makeing it harder for us to pay to play, my account will be going on carrer 5 when the begenning of next month rolls around."
"so far, we have had a few hints towards this. but i think this is worth possibly raising as an issue for itself.i have had countless requests for creating t1 components, in the same way we have t2 and capital components.it would create a very interesting market and add a much needed level of complexity.so the request is that ccp should simply make t1 components. it's my hope that ccp can tell us if it's likely or if it's a \"dream\" of theirs.if we get enough support for this issue, i will be bringing this up at soonest possible meeting.  1-2 weeks from now "
"fully supported.t1 components would be the first step into industry for the new player and module construction could then require appropriate skills to manufacture, similar, but lower to t2 modules.then not every numb nut with a bpc and some reprocessed loot can build their own battleships. industrial players might finally get some more appreciation."
"i think t1 components would be nice, but there would probably have to be some changes made to the slots, so that thousands of manufactureing jobs for t1 componens don't flood the slots just to build some frigatesin order to not make building  t1 modules/ships -'cause its not very hard with current mechanics since it can be done by a minute old player- more difficult/time cunsuming/and so on maybe building a ship from components would cost less minerals then building from monly minerals  due to rp stuff like componets have more optimized ways of being manufactured and assebled \"in the future\" using less or more then standard =what it says on the bp  number of a two given components could build pre-customized ships, finding out if a different combination will yield a working ship could be done through a new \"invention\" where you would research a bp to find a new possible combination and get a bpc with these numberseg:fewer armor plates alowing more shield emitters = less armor and more shield hitpoints and shorter rechargefewer armor plates alowing more thusters = higher base speed but less armor hpless thrusters alowing more armor plates = more armor hp less agility and base speedor something..."
"i do support ships being constructed from components, i do not support items being constructed from components. items should be the low-end for industrialists, requiring no real skills to construct. also, the components should be split across at least three different types of differentiation, to allow industrialists to specialize, and provide the much-vaunted economies of scale to industry. have components for each of the races much like the carbides in t2 , each of the ship sizes size-based hardpoints, etc. - also, one \"power core\" per mw would nicely cover this role , components that vary based on the ship's role drone bays, ew modules, that kind of stuff , and universal components computers, engines, etc. . you'll have to make the prices low and the volumes high on some of these components, especially the universal ones, but that's easy enough to do. basically, take a mix of the way things are done for capital ships and t2 stuff, and adjust it so that frigates don't go up in price and battleships don't go down or vice-versa, of course . as long as it's done right, this could be exactly what higher-end industrialists have been looking for."
"anything that helps the t1 industry sounds good to me."
"not in support of this. all we need is another way to fill up all my build slots requiring me to log in multiple times during the day to finish each step needed to build a battleship for a corp mate. isn't it bad enough for t2 manufacture/invention to require 15 steps to get to an end product? this will only provide more cost to the consumer, due to the extra work needed by the builders & cost of the new component bpo's. it will also mean more bpo's to research me/pe on, less open build slots to make stuff with since they're being used to make the t1 components, etc.having components for capital ships & freighters is where i draw the line for t1 build jobs. the protocloak components are bad enough, and i don't want to see every t1 module take 5 days to build a batch of from scratch."
"all it would serve to do is run newer players out of the market.i'd much rather have the ability to choose who can buy my products than to have to build a bunch of components just to build something else.i did that in swg in the original release and cu, there it had a function in the quality of the components affected the quality of the final product. here it would only serve as a time sink because every rifter, retriever, raven, etc is just like every other out of the box."
"i think mecinia is correct on this one. if i am reading right what is wanted here is creation of more barriers for the production of t1 items. correct me if i'm wrong but this means mid-level or higher producers would have the training to actually create and sell most t1 product.why would those same t1 producers not simply create their own components rather than purchase them from new players? just as in the capital ship market; those with the means to produce volume cap ships already have the means to produce the components. this would greatly reduce the production opportunities for new players and discourage entry. less competition is not a good thing."
"this is why i say it should be limited to ships. leave gear and ship components  to the newbies, make full-blown ships the province of more experienced industrialists with large bpo portfolios."
"this would be better than all t1 items needing components but my argument remains. large bpo portfolios coupled with experience and lower production costs means the mid-level producers will not need new players to produce components. they would produce a cheaper, more competitive product by creating the components themselves.note that i'm not necessarily against this idea. more complexity is a good thing and makes the game more enjoyable. i just wonder if this will make things more complex...or if it will make things more exclusive?"
"frankly, there should be a bit of exclusivity to industrial operations. you shouldn't be able to do l5 missions on a trial account, either. that sounds banal, but it's a pretty accurate reflection of t1 manufacturing at present. get industry 5, pe 5, and amp 4, and you pretty much never again have to put a skill point into production again, unless you want to go t2. that's way too easy. you should need more skills, more money, and more effort in order to become a top-tier industrialist. also, a mid-range producer, like someone trying to make cruisers from minerals, would still need a pretty big pile of bpos to do it. some of them would be cheap - the generic modules especially - but the cruiser-scale component bpos would be at least 10 million, and some of the role-specific ones would be even more expensive. plus, production lines start to be an issue. if you have more than 10 components needed for a ship, and you would, one character couldn't keep a full production line going, and you'd have to outsource. some will outsource to alts, of course, but there'll still be a market for all the components - the low-end modules old industrialists don't want to bother with, and the high-end modules the newer industrialists can't afford bpos for."
"shey is correct, its how it was in swg too. you make your own components, only if you feel up against the wall to get something done do you consider buying components from someone else because it is always cheaper to maker your own."
"isn't it a bit silly to add in some trivial barriers to tech level 1 production in the game now? the game has been going for over 5 years now. as someone above said, most people have industrial characters already at max skill so adding in a few new skills will only mean that every industrial tech 1 producing character will train them up and then their will be no barriers again. the only people this really nerfs are new players and why should they be nerfed.also this added \"complexity\" just brings about a lot of boring, menial, uninteresting work for large tech 1 producers. it is tech 1 items, it is not meant to be complex and was meant for anyone to get into fairly easily.to the issue of complexity, how would components be complex at all? let's say you get the materials for a component and plug them into a bpo....how is that different from getting minerals and plugging them into a bpo to make a tech 1 item? it isn't complex, it is just another long, boring step. to a builder it isn't anymore complex, just what do you need to buy to make x item.what problem is this solving? i know a lot of builders want barriers to tech 1 production. but is this good for the game or good for them? simply speaking, having barriers means less people possible producing which naturally reduces your competition. tech 1 items, however, are supposed to be easy to produce and rapidly available as well as cheap and easy to manufacture. i see a bunch of builders whining about how they should be making x% profit and there is too much competition, but i don't see how that is an issue, espeically for a playstyle that has zero risks.and finally, please prove your points or show there is a problem and how your solution would make the game better, rather than \"i want this plz ccp giev me\". hell i would like a hurricane with 15 turrets, make it so!"
"it worked in swg becuase you could customize items on build. it encouraged specialization. i went to one weaponsmith for t21's, one for flamethrowers, one for fwg5's, ect. i don't know how it would work in eve, every moa that comes out of the factory slot is exactly the same. customization happens after the build. this was not the case in swg, my components were customized on build, the weapon was customized on build, it was customized after build, with slices, and with weapon powerups."
"blobs is the reason i fly nano. i would love to do some armor tanking but the fact is if your not nano, your not gonna stand a chance due to the bad guys opting to only engage you if they blob.nano lets you actually stand maybe a chance against the blob.the percentage of ppl who learn how to do pvp tactics is growing smaller and smaller because they simply opt to blob because it requires no thought process really."
"jade sums it up, it's a no for op."
"and nanos are the reason i blob.so yeah, speed fits need tweaking."
"i have never done exploration in my life because it seemed too complicated, but if it is complicated, and tereis no reward, then just do away with it. i guess finding valuable stuff should be rare, but why sink skills into something that would never pay off?"
"actually i find multible items in a can in almost every location.no... really.just had one empty, one with 2 robot limbs and one with x2 integrated hornet, one integrated vespa and a robotic limb in a can.really i do try to be negative but hell i cant lie.try harder or quit.oh, i know.i am not finding any augmented drone bpc's!damn it!i not only want you to fix it so that augmented bpc's drop but multible copies damn you!sorry, i tried."
"1/2 hour to scan it down & 3 empty cans later... very discouraging./signedtribe"
"forgot to give myself support"
"yes, do it!"
"make it so."
"indeed."
"would be useful, and i can't see why not."
"just before the csm's went to iceland i remember jade saying that he was going to bring up duel ownership of wrecks and cargo from pvp.. i didnt see it in the minutes.. what happend jade?"
"i am guessing that is the medium-high priority item \"0030 pvp wreck ownership\".the question is, where is wranglers post-meeting thread to follow up discussion on this feature."
"i spend all my time in lo-sec and in the past in no-sec and do almost nothing in empire but a little shopping. i read the minutes of the csm meeting in it's entirety. what was discussed was impressive, and the csm is to be congratulated.however, it sure looks to me like the care bears got screwed on the priority list.i'd like a little more light shown on who voted and how in the csm. every politician in anything close to resembling a democracy has to defend their voting record, and the csm should be no exception."
"like... does it have to be mirc? couldn't it be x-chat?</sarcasm>when will noobs realize irc is a protocol and mirc is just a client? lord..."
"how about you make it so you can put as much in a ship you are not flying as you want  i could put 5km3 in a shuttle  though you would get a standard warning when you exceed cargo. then a check is run when you try to undock which prevents you from undocking if your cargo is overloaded."
"right now, gallente drones do the most dps, minmatar drones are fastest, caldari drones are mediocre across the board, and amarr drones are ccp's idea of a bad joke. the four varieties of drone should not be identical, but they should be balanced against each other, to the point where all four actually see use. i've never seen anyone use amarr drones, and caldari are very occasional at best. the easiest way to balance this is to give all four of them a role. gallente and minmatar already have theirs, being damage and speed respectively. caldari fit well enough into being the jack of all trades - faster than gallente and more damage than minmatar - though they could use a bit of boosting in order to make them better at it. amarr drones, however, are slower than minmatar with less damage, and only a tiny bonus in hp. in other words, any time you use an amarr drone, you should just use a minmatar one instead unless you know your opponent's resistances specifically in advance. my proposed solution is simple - give amarr a massive bonus to hp, by a factor of 4 or so. make tank their niche. it's not useful in all situations, but it's useful in enough that the drones might actually see some use. if you're in a ship where you don't want someone shooting your drones - either because you're in a nano ship where they can't shoot you, or because you're in a ship where drones are the vast majority of your dps curse/pilgrim, anyone?  - you might pick up some amarr drones to make them live longer and apply more damage over their life. also, in line with the \"boost caldari to make them a jack of all trades\" principle, give them about 2x the hp they have now - nothing crazy, but a nice little buff. so what do you think? would any of you actually use these drones?"
"nice idea m8, would also be a nice backup for battle carriers vs smartbombs. i would also be more inclined to using amarr/caldari drones vs gallente like i usually do."
"i wouldnt give them a 2x/4x boost to hp, but any reason to use amarr/caldari drones is wanted"
"yes, giving those two drone kinds some distinctive usefulness would be great. anything in the areas of hitpoints, tracking, optimal range and orbiting range would be welcome."
"indeed."
"i agree that it's a bit heavy-handed, but drones are simple little critters. there's not a whole lot of things you can change on them to make them better. resistances are locked, speed, damage, and damage types are already spoken for, tracking is a direct formula from orbit speed and radius, and you're basically left with orbit radius, optimal range, and hit points as your free variables. raising or lowering orbit radius doesn't seem like a buff to me, and optimal range is incredibly minor on non-sentry drones since i don't think you want them hitting while they're still 20 seconds out from the target . hp is the only buff left, unless you want to equalize them all or do something really outlandish e.g., less bandwidth use . given that i don't, i'll just play the cards i've got. it's not perfect, but it's the best solution i see that works within the game mechanics and isn't crazy."
"as cool as it would be to have 4x hitpoints, its not like they are useless right now.for amarr drones, em does wickedly bad things to caldari tanks, and on certain 3 hardener armor tanks, em is the lowest resist. but no, why would that matter to anybody?you know, the highest dps number in eft isn't the meaning of the universe."
"assuming said caldari tanks use only invulns, then the t1 amarr drone does 1.15x base damage \"base damage\" is defined here as the base damage for a drone of the appropriate size, reduced accordingly for the resistances provided by the invulns , the gallente does 1.28x base, the caldari does 0.87x, and the minmatar does 0.65x. so amarr go to being 2nd-best drones for damage, but they're still not the best. similarly, against an armour tank using 1 each of t2 kin, therm, and explo hardeners, an amarr drone does 0.575x base or 0.46x vs a minmatar ship , the gallente drone does 0.468x base or 0.396x vs a caldari ship , the caldari drone does 0.489375x base or 0.424125x vs a gallente ship , and the minmatar drone does 0.5265x base or 0.468x vs an amarr ship . so at that point, the amarr drone is better against three races, including the two most likely to armour tank. i did say in the op that they can currently be best against certain tanks with certain specific resistances. however, what you overlook is that that's a pretty bad tank. even with no armour compensation skills, a 3-eanm tank is better for most purposes than a 3-specific tank. it uses the same fitting, saves you 4.5 cap/second, gives you almost as much hardening against the 3 non-em damage types 41.4%, specifically , and also hardens you against em. with the comp skills at 2, it's 44.8% to all, and with them at 5, it's 49.6% to all. ehp against even damage levels out at between 2-3 to all, depending on the race of the ship. in other words, unless the pvp ship in question has capacitor to burn which no self-respecting pvp ship does , you'll almost invariably go for the eanms, meaning your setup is unlikely. yes, there will be people who use it, and against them the amarr drones will be best. but in order for using amarr drones to be correct, you need to know the enemy's fit precisely with enough lead time to change out your drones and in the case of t2 drones, train up amarr drone specialization, which you probably haven't even purchased prior to this , it has to be almost exactly this particular janky fit, and you need to know that he's the only enemy you'll be facing. can you tell me exactly how often that's happened to you? yeah, if a domi's got a bit of spare drone bay, you can carry around a rack of acolytes just for the laughs, but in terms of practical utility there's almost none. furthermore, even if you are right, i'm not sure you make your point very well. let me illustrate:when are gallente drones the best? when you want to do lots of damage. when are minmatar drones best? when you need the drones to catch up to a fast ship. when are caldari drones best? when you need some fairly specific combination of a  and b . when are amarr drones best? when you've got a ship scan on an armour-tanking non-minmatar enemy ship who is using three specific hardeners, and enough time to swing by the local mall before combat starts. that's not balance, that's a sick joke."
"drones implants, please.thx in advance.mail me ingame once they are launched :]cheers"
"signed and suppoted.as a drone user myself, i know how lacking the dps is for drones when compared to other forms of damage types."
"yes... and faction dominix plz."
"hey! this would be awesome! then i could respec shadow instead of holy when we go raid black temple this weekend!holy **** people... can we get serious with this?how do you \"forget\" months worth of training? anybody just woke up one morning, and forgot how to drive their car? or tie your shoes?this isn't wow, and there aren't wands to wave over a persons head to erase knowledge. while there is the penalties for out-of-date jump clones, they aren't selective.nothing in eve lore suggests that we have such precision with memories, that we can delete specific areas without harming others. and even if something were made up on the spot, to serve such a purpose... it'll only lead to more problems later on.so you can not only train, but master a skill, and then \"change your mind\" and erase months of practice and knowledge gained. so what would logically follow, but being able to backup those skills for later. while you're selectively targeting very specific portions of the brain, in order to erase them, you happen to save a copy. now you ~could~ be a turret sniper, or not... depending on what you load up at the time. sounds pretty matrix-ish for one thing. in fact, why not put that copy of master gunnery onto a disk and sell it. now anyone can just upload gunnery v immediately, since we know exactly where the memories need to go to make it work. now everyone is just as good as you were.now we don't even need a skill training system. we'll just borrow the skills from the best of every field, and distribute them around the universe. just plop down your isk credit card, and walk out the door a genius at everything."
"i was trying to figure out a way to make a name for myself in eve. supporting the worst idea ever seems like it might work.thumbs up for the utterly ridiculous!"
"the reward for the low end ores in empire are currently out of order, as veldspar is currently the most valuable ore per m<U+FFFD> mined. this of course results in all industrialists currently mining veldspar and scordite, often leaving noob players with nothing to mine.steps should be taken to bring low end ores back into order."
"if veld is most valuable at the moment isn't it because there arent enough miners mining it?"
"i dunno... it seems that a system like this would promote writing like this.apart from being a really cool piece of fiction, it just doesn't work with the mechanics, and already people are clamoring for space whales.that's a lot of junk for the writers to sift through."
"there are still some thinks you could do about orders, when making a buy order you can not only choose the range but make sure it is only high sec/low sec."
"i've found a solution but i think there is no need for it, because of alts marketting around, anyway...the solution is when you put a buy/sell order, you put it on your corp's own market.the corp market is the congregate of all corp's market you can access  = you have + standings with  + a general market used by npc corps  the one every player use today . each corp's market beside the general would be refreshed each downtime to reduce db stress a little more.the buy/sell matching algorythm would remain unchanged but it would now work with data coming from smaller tables, reducing cpu bandwith  because it work with less data , and cpu  used to match with less data .the problem is the refresh, when you open your market tab. this will fetch data from 2 tables and this would impact performances. there must be a solution for this.irl, countries don't buy/sell things to their ennemies. and some set blocus to other.to me, it should be possible to acheive this. but it cost a lot of money to set controls, administrative checks and docking rights. economic blocus should cost 50m/week/alliance like a usual empire war, shouldn't it ?there is three flaws for the contract system to be used for this. first, you have no visibility from the market. second, quantities are set : you buy a whole of product, instead of just some and just a few  no need for 134m trit when i only need 100k . third, it have the same standing problems : "
"as we've seen throughout the great war and at the start of max, large fleet battles bring the unlucky node it's in to it's knees again and again. we've also seen that ccp, through one means or another, has managed to bulk up nodes with known massive fights in the near future, so that the lag is barable or even none existant. i would like to see this expanded upon by ccp getting a new game master and tieing him closely to those who handle the server. the idea would be that when lets say, goons, are planning a 500 pilot invasion in one system or another, they would contact this gm, tell him \"hay we're having a massive fight in xj-6d8 in 3 days any chance you could beef up the node?\" and then this gm talks to whoever handles the server s and they re-assign some server power during one of the downtimes. ideally this would make massive fleet battles more feasible and reduce the reimbursement claims. this gm would have to be entirely seperate from the normal crew, bound by strict non disclosure policies and have an understanding of what it takes to handle large fleet battles server side."
"the problem with it being player-based, where you have to report in advance, is that lag is a tactic in some cases. the gm in question would also need to keep his ear to the ground in other ways. that said, yes, if there's a way to prevent lag in fleet battles and the only problem is the information not percolating to the gm, then by all means set up such a contact point. i'm not convinced that lack of information on what systems are busy is the only problem with lag - my four-hour login to jita yesterday would strongly differ with that assessment, actually - but if that is the only problem, this is a good solution."
"its not possible to tell days in advance whether you're going to get a fight  there's no guarantee the other side will show up - after the first couple of weeks roadkill more or less no-showed for the bulk of our geminate campaign even when we were hitting their station systems  or exactly where or when that fight is going to be  often the biggest fights aren't at a pos as it comes out of reinforced, but are unplanned events as fleets bump into each other in a random system and the numbers escalate , so you'd have a system where we'd have to say 'umm yeah we're invading and we might need extra server resources, but it could be anywhere in these 2 regions and at any point over the next 6 weeks or more', which is totally impractical. there's also the abuse potential of one side giving misinformation of what they intend to do to boost the nodes for quiet systems so that the other side lags out."
"something would happen in my pants if they implemented this"
"i'd be tickled pink if they let us change little things like the ingame font... edit: spelling"
"i knew pwett was being sarcastic, but it's a legitimate concern that gets raised a lot. as such, i figured i'd address it seriously, whatever his thoughts on the topic."
"/me supports this.the options in the right click menu's are strangely sorted."
"i would love to get my suggestions post addressed in the next meeting?how do we get this on the agenda?do we need people agreeing with my list?-raylon"
"i was told there would be ***** here. whre it at"
"/signed"
"i support this."
"i support this"
"signed, my ass hurts"
"/signed"
"#1"
"i will bring this to ccp no matter the cost."
"been wondering this same thing..."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"signed"
"way to provide jade with ammo."
"my signature expelled forcefully from the bowels of my rectum."
"i'm giving this my support. where is the ***** indeed."
"but why ever would jade want to shoot down a proposal about the proliferation of *****?unless - you're saying - no, you couldn't possibly think that he's -"
"/signed. this definitely needs to be brought up to cpp. its been going on for to long now!"
"where's the record of voting done in the csm? how are we supposed to judge whether or not someone we elected performed as promised? where's the accountability?we should know how every csm vote went. no, they are not entitled to privacy on their votes. we elected them to do a job, and we need to see the results.and if this information is available, why isn't it included in the minutes?"
"head over to www.eve-csm.com. you will find the chat logs from the first 3 meetings. the last few haven't been posted there yet no idea why, but i'm not too happy about that .but jade have posted links to them from elsewhere, in the corresponding meeting thread. so you can find them there.so to answer your question: you can see all discussion and all votes that the csm has right there in the chat logs.edit: all votes are included in the minutes. sadly only the first 2 meetings and then the csm-ccp meetings's minutes, have been published."
"macro miners/mission runners fears that they wont be able to farm isk without npc corp protection"
"and then they lose out on the shared chat in the npc corps, and they will be forced to grab corp tickers that other people may want.personally the only change i'd like made to npc corps is giving them a low tax rate, slightly above what most high sec player corps charge, just as a small incentive to move to a player corp."
"there, fixed it for ya.your welcome."
"i am a new player, and i have to say i dont mind the learning skill sets, it is a little odd the way the whole training thing is handled, but thats part of the mechanics. personally i have trained some of them up but have mainly piled most of it in to gunnery, its all choice. i accept that this does indeed look like a limiter, and yes it does put some people off, but thats eve for you.however people are entitled to their opinion, and i dont have a problem if a valid coherent agrument is put forward. what i do find odd is the  might have been intentional  heavy irony in the op. you may not like the idea of the learning skill sets being removed but you could surely express yourself a little better, youre not only whining yourself about something. you also shot yourself in the foot with; so any argument of well we had to train them, is invalidated by your above statement, because as you said its not ment to be fair."
"tonights meeting canceled  we couldn't get seven members+alternates to make up the quorum. jade, bane, lavista, dierdra val, serenity steel were in attendance.meeting seven rescheduled for 16:00 hours july 20th. once again all members+alternates  including arithron now as a replacement alternate  are welcome to attend."
"just a note that, sfaict, all the rest of us had sent apologies earlier in the week that we would be unable to attend  ie. it wasn't that we just couldn't be bothered to turn up, as it might otherwise appear from jade's post!  sadly, 'real life' must intrude on life in new eve occasionally ...iz"
"eft warriors in action, enuff said"
"the phoenix has the lowest dps of all the dreads."
"i think i found your problem.i'd say that your problem does not lie within the game mechanics itself but the poor organization of your corporation. instead of ten directors you could have perhaps 2-3 directors and the rest of the people assigned specific tasks within the organization without roles to access anything outside the scope of their function. if something gets stolen, then the culprit is far easier to track.let's face it, with ten directors you gave ten people access to every single thing that's in your corporation. that's not what you want to do, reorganize your corp so that keeping it running does not require director access just to do everyday tasks.there will always be corp thefts but you don't only minimize the damage by relying on non-existent game features but by creating an environment where the corporate organization is such that the damage will not be severe and the culprit is easier find."
"makes me want to cry when i hear about faction borefare going in when i can't even load jita for the 7 billionth time. or when i load in a fleet fight to find out i died 20 minutes earlier."
"yes things were improved, and yes they do keep adding to the game which is good, however if what they add is more then what they improve then and tbh if ccp can't deal with increasing user's then they should give that more resources until they can.end of the day is this, eve is a game, people play it when it's enjoyable and won't if it's not, but all the time more people will try it out. *****ing and crying on the forums won't change ccp's policy on anything."
"how about some improved code. it seems like the current system sends updates out to some clients, but totally ignores others. at least we could all lag together instead of some people just getting totally shafted. i just jumped into jita at the same time as my friend. he loaded and is doing his shopping. i've been staring at the loading screen for the last 20 minutes. same thing happens with fleet fights.the other question is when. when will i stop lagging. it's not fun, and i'm paying for it. at least give me a date. when will they do anything for that matter? they are still saying the same things they said in the past. \"we are working on it.\" the whole csm thing seems like a waste of time."
"having lived in poland in the late 70's, i know exactly what communisim,  scientific socialism , is like, however i fear that people are confusing this and marxism.nice quote:apologies for contributing to the derail."
"please accept this as constructive criticism. by now i doubt that this issue has not been raised but i have not been able to find it anywhere and felt it needed to be pointed out.lavista vista raised two issues recently in assembly hall. both issues are interesting and both issues have positive and negative aspects that require exploration. unfortunately in his ops lavista vista only raised the positives. i say \"unfortunately\" not \"incorrectly\" or \"wrongly\". if lavista vista believes in these issues or if his constituency wants these issues raised in a positive manner then he is doing exactly as expected.the unfortunate part is that other members of your council may not either be aware of the negatives or bother to read every post in those threads and may not become exposed to the negatives.this means that an issue that seriously impacts a large number of players in a negative manner may not receive full scrutiny prior to a vote on whether to present it to ccp. have you considered means to combat this? do you feel this is important? how are you currently dealing with the need to read hundreds  if not thousands  of individual posts and pulling valid arguments out from all the spam and flames on a weekly basis? have you considered appointing advocates  one for, one against  to create short briefs of topics you will be voting on during your weekly meetings? obviously there are issues that more than one csm member is well acquainted with and those issues probably receive a large amount of scrutiny prior to the vote. my concern is that more obscure issues may squeek through on the advocacy of one or two csm members without anyone opposing them or presenting any form of argument to the other voting members.thanks for taking the time to read this."
"well. i can see where you are coming from. but i think you simplify it a bit too much1. it has to receive 7 day worth of debate2. these issues i brought up, are very heavily discussed already. they were mentioned by ccp themself during the csm-ccp meetings and there is threads about in the science and industry forum.3. when submitting the template, one has to list the negative aspects as well. this submission template is expected to be read by all council members before a vote happens.4. i noted in one of the threads i should have done so too in the other one as well  that i will only raise it if there is enough support.now, the human aspect will always be a weakness. but you can't really help that. but if a person do get a \"bad\" issue trough, ccp can tell that person that this is a horrible idea. ccp is not unreasonable. so it's not possible for a single person to make a \"bad\" change.so in short: sadly, i think there is no way to combat this. but obviously there will always be issues which might not fall in good ground with everybody. but nothing that is suggested, will be implemented as-is, without ccp making sure everything works out as expected."
"i won't deny that trying to understand issues that i haven't come across during my own experience ingame is sometimes problematic; it is one reason for having a range of player 'types' on the csm as we each bring different experience to the table. for myself, where a topic is up for discussion i read each and every posting in the relevant listed thread s  again just before the meeting. this is on top of trying to spot the new threads in the assembly hall each day or two and reading them all too  even if not always commenting - i believe there is much to be gained by waiting for more comments to a post before reaching my own conclusions  and asking ingame acquaintances also plays a part in understanding things.when a csm member brings up a topic for discussion they produce a document  based on our \"issue template\"  which includes 'pro' and 'con' spaces and it is certainly the intention / expectation that they should detail both, and others will often query this too. in part though we would expect most of the positive and negative aspects of an issue to come out on the forum thread - one reason for it needing to be there for at least seven days - and, for myself, if i only see people saying 'yes please!' i tend to have a worry that something might have been overlooked, so try to find it.thanks for making a point well.iz"
"good answers. thank you both."
"i disagree with your opinion of the change you're proposing, but that's another discussion entirely. hey, we kill things too!  sometimes. "
"total win, i love it, makes it so much more plausible and deifnately way better looking."
"i support this thread. as a poor sap working in pos logistics, i can state that these things suck royally to put up, take down, and operate.shame on csm and ccp for not at least even mentioning it in the meeting topics!"
"/signed"
"csm members, lavista vista, ankhesentapemkah, serenity steele, where are you guys?! did your internet broke? what happened to bringing this idea to ccp?you should be ashamed of yourself, but then again, you got a free trip to iceland and all that, who cares about your word, or promises, right... i am laughing now, i was really upset before, and i am laughing at myself now, because i thought that damn csm might actually do something good. i guess what you say csm and what you do csm are two different thing, my mistake, regretfully. i suppose that all the others should remember this come next election."
"i agree with waratron, blackops are so seriously underpowered that they are pretty much useless. the whole cynoing is a gimmick, which is mostly useless as the ship itself is not up to par. i have been in only 1 operation where we cynoed something like 20 stealthbombers onto a target with 3 black ops. with the price of blackops being so high and insurance so low, i don't understand why they can't be much better ships."
"we need to be able to activate the covert cynos and covert jump bridges in a system with a cyno jammer. leave the jump harmonics as they are: only covert ops, recon/force recon, stealth b, and black ops can use them, and boom. 20 stealth bombers with bombs take out the cyno jammer, the force recon activates a regular cyno field, and the rest of the fleet warps in with a titan.that's what they are made for, aren't they?oh, and yes to the fuel bay."
"playing it safe by pre-nerfing is one thing, however making the the ship contrary to its namesake is another. i suppose its full lethality works in lowsec. i haven't seen many there though. empire nullifies its jump capabilities, but then you can't jump in empire either.as to the ultimate ship: dps carriers do what 50 - 100 % damage if not more than a black ops ship maybe? then again carriers are support ships really. dreadnaughts are primarily pos killers and cap killers. titans are not in danger of loosing their place. so i can't see black ops displacing cap ships from their roles. would battleships be reduced in use? i suspect no in general. price is still such a factor. defenders still have those annoying jump bridges anyways. at the cost of half a carrier, i can't see the fear it being the ultimate ship in terms of use or power.let them go in cynojammed systems among other things."
"lol... it would take at least 2,500 bombs to disable a cyno jammer. that would cost 25 billion isk, and take 20 bombers like 2 hours to fire, and of course, they can't carry that many either."
"i apologize if this topic has come up before. i remember reading something along these lines months and months ago, but i don't remember the thread or if the idea existed in this current form.make the blockade runner class transport ship a member of the covert-ops family. do not give it the ability to fit the covert-ops cloak, but allow it to jump with black-ops ships.would fix the cargo and fuel issues."
"nerf nanos?"
"these! i posted a thread a while back discussing this.the problem with blackops is they get combat bonuses, but no advantage in combat  weaker tank, etc.  and the only ship with any real combat viability is the widow since it can jam the heck out of targets and  potentially  escape which is what this thing should be doing with a weaker tank. sin agility bonus? redeemer tracking bonus? panther speed bonus? seriously wtf...  well, panther i guess is ok, but doesn't compare to the widow's jamming if they arent going to be gifted with a covops cloak so they can move around stealthily  which is reasonable  they need to be given the ability to break locks or immobilize opponents and skedaddle out of the fight. even with an ewar bonus, its pretty easy to balance these ships' utility relative to their recons."
"as many have said here, when i log into the game it's because i actually want to play the game.as it stands, i could wake up in the morning, turn on the computer, log onto eve and change a skill before logging out, switching off the computer and going to work. that's not playing the game however. to me, playing the game is sitting down for a session, going out around systems, shooting some things, playing the market etc.i'm sorry, but as good as the game is, logging in first thing in the morning to change a skill is not going to convince me i should be pulling a sickie to go out on a corp op  for example having a \"next skill\" queue therefore would be a good thing as then you don't need to be planning your life around eve. it allows just the right amount of flexibility to more casual players without making life too easy for character farmers.so, instead of me thinking that \"my skill finishes at 3am, i'll need to set the alarm to get up to change it\", i would instead think \"my skill finishes at 3am, next skill finishes at 10pm tomorrow i can log in at any time before then to set the next skill up\"it would even have a benefit while you're playing as you wouldn't have to worry about having to change a skill right in the middle of a firefight, the server would change it for you and you could set the next skill once you were in a place you could change it in comfort."
"yup, i vote for \"now\" and \"next\" -- a two-skill queue.this keeps things simple, but solves the wake-up-in-the-middle-of-the-night/business-meeting/etc. problem. and better than the two skills in parallel solution, because i would often want to set skill level x and level x+1 as my queue.and i don't see why skill training doesn't stop completely when you inactivate an account. what possible financial advantage is there to ccp in letting people skill-up for free?"
"no no no no.irritated of 4am finishing skill? set a longer one, go to bed, finish it another day. this just screams character farming, and i will gladly do so when this solution is in place."
"other than possibly spiking the 'most players online' number that ccp likes to tout at times, having people to sign on for 10 seconds does not increase play.  it just verifies that they have an active account. personally, i like the idea of a training queue, but not parallel training.worried about somebody setting a long queue and leaving for a year? the new code module that does the switch has a simple check first to see if the account is active. if it is, there's no problem, if not, clear the queue.once the mechanics of a queue and queue switching are known. coding against farmers is easy."
"so, we're back to the old arguement of \"no skill queue because everyone and they're grandmother will be farming accounts to sell on e-bay, oh no the sky is falling! omg!\" seriously though, if this really was the case then you'd have a price crash on characters as supply would massively outstrip demand. net effect, less character farming as it wouldn't be possible to recover your outlay for creating a character especially if a skill queue is tied in with a freeze on skill point gain while an account is inactive.thats right, when an account goes inactive it should stop training there and then, no completing of the current skill level, immediate freeze with training restarting only on account reactivation.that way you're encouraged to actually play the game while your skills are completing and not just set an account to skill up passively."
"personally a skill queue is badly needed, and yes with limits. limiting a queue to say, 12hours is good. stack as many skills possible up to 12hours....i don't believe this would encourage farming, but would actually encourage more people to play.everyone knows the first skills to train are the learning skills, followed by engineering, electronics etc... getting from lvl1 -> 3 only takes a matter of hours.6. fuel conservation i  20 minutes, 50 seconds 7. electronic warfare i  26 minutes, 27 seconds 8. surgical strike i  31 minutes, 51 seconds 9. trajectory analysis i  41 minutes, 57 seconds 10. tactical shield manipulation i  52 minutes, 54 seconds 11. targeting ii  1 hour, 1 minute, 38 seconds 12. energy systems operation ii  1 hour, 1 minute, 38 seconds 13. motion prediction ii  1 hour, 18 minutes, 25 seconds 14. weapon upgrades ii  1 hour, 24 minutes, 34 seconds 15. fuel conservation ii  1 hour, 38 minutes, 1 second 16. electronics upgrades ii  2 hours, 3 minutes, 13 seconds 17. electronic warfare ii  2 hours, 3 minutes, 13 seconds 18. shield compensation ii  2 hours, 3 minutes, 13 seconds 19. surgical strike ii  2 hours, 36 minutes, 48 seconds 20. shield management ii  3 hours, 4 minutes, 48 seconds 21. propulsion jamming ii  3 hours, 4 minutes, 48 seconds 22. trajectory analysis ii  3 hours, 16 minutes, 1 second so i am forced to login every 3 hours to play??training the short time skills while online and longer skills offline actually doesn't help much...your basically \"forced\" to login, not play, cause you don't have the skills to play!...not everyone can put more than 2-3 hours a day onto a game...."
"any eta when it will be implemented? and please dont just say soon  tm ......."
"character farming happens right now, but only power metagamers who can buy timecards with isk or are willing to shell out more money for more accounts do it. the only way that a skill training queue will make this problem worse is if you can queue skill after an account is inactive. i am for total skill queuing ability, with the rule that the queue turns off once the account isn't payed for anymore. this will also help with server load, as people will not be logging in and out just to change a skill, and others who just leave the client on until the skill is done training."
"at first you had ice mining mindlink and mining mindlink. the ice mining mindlink is completely gone.the micha implant is so rare that it als becoming and like ice mindlink.if they made it so that the skill your mining drones, would be effected by the mindlink in on skill lvl then there where no extra skils nessary"
"ccp said no to the csm, i think the csm needs to tell ccp no!bring on the battleship 5, carrier 5, dreadnought 5, large turret 5, capital turret 5, recon 5, battle cruiser 5, command ship 5 and so on"
"personally i think ccp don't give a flying **** what we think!!! we pay them money they get rich the greedy *******s raise the bar to gorge on our playing the game all i saw in the latest csm post  now i dont blame any csm  is that ccp dont listen to them either on these topicsits all the fat cats! that make these dictions so they can have that big bonus and payrise just like the rest of the worlds companys that raises prices with no reason the 1$=1eur is total bull****e and a scam i buy eve through gtc in dollars and i got a cracking deal but 60d gtc = still cheaper per month than 6 month sub in europe... shame i <3 this game but these corporate ***s are ruining my financial commitment to this game"
"2 60 gtcs, or a 2 month sub as yes a 60gtc should be cheaper than a 6 month sub"
"my account expires on the 17th today is the 14th. i will no longer be supporting this game due to this change."
" 1  perhaps what we need is a way for corps that are decced to have other corps able to declare loyalty to any corp, which in turn gives them full war rights also. this would fix the militia corp war issue. 2  and, along with that... if you added in the fact that all deccing corps must declare a monetary value of the war, which ends when a value of ships is lost and/or isk is transfered. if the deccing corp achieves isk value first, they win and war is ended immediately. they are also unable to re-dec that same war for 30 days. if corp that was declared upon kills the deccing corp and obtains the isk value first, they win. deccing corp gets war points if they win, but if the other corp wins, they gain double points, while deccing corp loses points.a bit complicated if you read that... lol, but it makes for a far better war environment. and these war points can be used for something. however, to deter abuse... you only get points if the two corps involved in the war both have more than 40 members. 3  finally, just increase the cost of wars in relation to the isk being demanded. if griefer corp a wants a cheap war, then let them pay for a cheap war, that can be easily ended with a cheap payment. perhaps for every 20mil isk being demanded in a war... the war cost 1mil per week. costs also double as normal with 2 and 3 wars decced.this would have to make deccing corps choose wisely.- demand 100 mil, pay 5 mil per week.- demand 1bil, pay 50 mil per week."
"you pay to declare war. add the ability to pay a fee to keep you corp free from war. make it a blind bid system.corp a pays 200-mil war insurance.corp b declares war on corp a and pays 150-mil  blind bid corp b gets a notice they did not offer enough to overcome the war insurance paid by corp a and gets a 24-hour timer before they can offer again + they loose the 150-mil offer.corp a gets a notice who tried to declare war on them but their insurance prevented it. you cannot buy war insurance while you already have it and canceling the insurance starts a 24-hour timer before you can buy it again at a higher amount.this would not prevent war but would make it cost a little more and might give a small corp a chance to get ready or protect valuable assets like a pos. this would also make it harder for smaller corporations to wardec larger corporations. war insurance will only protect a corporation that isn't already at war and lasts for a set amount of time. if you buy war insurance while at war it goes into effect as soon as the current war ends."
"can't see how this could hurt."
"give the man better mining lasers!"
"oh, yes. i saw a wts thread for a moros located in high-sec... if i had the iskies that would have been mine :- so for future eventuallities i want this. maybe fit it on an erebus eventually :- "
"bumping up this one again, with some more references:i linked my own thread above, about making local optional, just like the constellation and regional chats. the consequences should have been discussed for the most part in that thread.now, the issue comes up in how the intel can still be retained in a simple, but effective fashion, albeit somewhat more limited.an extra function on the overview, which would simply display 3 numbers in a seperate area: blue, white, and red, which represent the standings, and how many pilots of each standing are within x range. some au's would be advisable, but not system-wide. this doesn't replace the scanner, as that can still be used to determine precise range and direction, and it doesn't show anything else than ships in range. how this mechanic would deal with cloaked ships remains to be seen, but this is another issue entirely. this still provides an early warning system for anyone wary of pirates, while not being as overpowered as local is now.you have to remember that this will make life harder on the attacker aswell. everyone is screaming how they won't be able to detect pirates early enough if local is removed in it's current form, however, pirates also won't be able to find you as easily. coupled with this small change to overview, i think this would be an acceptable solution for everyone  except the whiners :p  "
"if alliances wouldn't try and take control of several regions at once, this problem would be trivial, as smaller space is easier to control with the same amount of members than larger space. this change would force most alliances to reconsider their territorial aspirations, giving way to new alliances, aswell as making room for a lot more players in between.alliances being able to control fewer systems at the same time is only a good thing. bob, ra and goonswarm are the perfect examples why."
"i'm surprised no-one has mentioned the fact that ccp themselves have commented on the use of local as an intel tool, and that it isn't what they want.removing the list of people in system from local doesn't do anything other than remove the intel tool. people can still talk on it if they wish, but they might give themselves away."
"/signed."
"something like a person-scanning multispec probe? no pinpointing anything, but telling you what there is to be found?edit: and /signed to looking at local. a compulsory chat channel's member list shouldn't be the intel tool. i'd prefer some kind of fast-cycling module to replace local for intel, and i wouldn't even be against it giving more information than local.oh, and preferably don't let cloaked ships show up in this scanner."
"agreed"
"the scanning system needs an overhaul. when that is done then it will be time to reasess the situation and i believe that is already on teh drawing-board at ccp.until their is a viable scanning system which doesnt involve the npcer spamming scan and the attacking player getting bored and frustrated then removing local wouldnt be a good idea tbh. with the current state of the game removing local would favor the attacker too much in 0.0 for a start. attackers would gravitate toward low true-sec systems and just roam the belts all day. at least thats what i would do."
"if you want to remove local, you need to replace the scanning system with something that actually works. longer scanning ranges, automatic scanning  a radar screen in the ui  instead of the current system. then you need to deal with cloakers too, in some way.attackers do have an advantage, they will go to the -1.0 truesec systems where they know the ratters/miners will be. sitting there cloaked, they will paralyze all of the attractive parts of 0.0 to the point where they become useless."
"the idea is terrible unless rewards obtained by being in space in 0.0/lowsec are increased substantially. by moving everything to const. chat it makes it so a small recon gang can shut down the ratting in a constilation in not just a single system. if rewards are increased such that the risk of ratting with these hostiles around is worth the reward, then i would be for this change."
"i agree.as it is now a good fight could happen. but one side sees the number in local spike quickly and before the enemy loads or hit warp to the fight the other side calls for an evacuate. remove local and you give people who specialize in covert operations a role, if people are smart enough to use them. then again they don't even need to be covert ops but it just makes them better. there are plenty of other situation where local is used purely for intelligence purposes. bacon was an extension of that, but it will always remain a problem until it's ajusted. just make it not update until you talk.i believe one argument ccp brought up in the past is without local space would feel empty and such the game would suffer without it. space is big and an empty void. it should feel like that. spruce up the scanning a bit to compensate and make it not so cumbersome."
"ccp has a plan:"
"the planned orca should be able to fill the role when rigged and fitted for cargo space."
"i think this has nothing to do with datacore alts. i think what they mean is like you have a 1% chance of getting a t2 bpo after doing me/pe/copying/invention work."
"all of what is said above and more.more damage  or energy neuted, or jam chance more radius of damagemore capability  explode no matter what, unless shot down do one of the two following regarding maneuverability; 1  allow the use of the covert ops cloak2  drastically increase the speed of a cloaked stealth bomber to make approach from off grid a viable tactic.my two isk."
"how about a way to vote to consolidate shares. my corp has a few dozen shareholders  no idea why  and 90% of them are inactive characters, effectivly making corp votes meaningless."
"i don't understand why everyone is trying to take all the risk out of owning stock. owning stock is risky. that is why the reward can be great. here is what i think should be done. make stock a physical item like ammo. this would allow it to be openly traded on the market. the corp would produce \"stock certificates\" at the station where it is going to make it's ipo. the stock would be offered for sale and traders would buy that stock. making it a market tradeable object would also provide basic charts that traders could use to work the market. the corporation would set up a dividend percentage that they could change through an announcement, maybe through an automated email to all stakeholders. lowering a dividend would probably cause the price of the stock to fall just like rl. the corporation would be required to issue fiscal reports on a quarterly basis. the price of the stock would drop if profits were down from the previous quarter just like rl. ccp should just let the market take care of things. as far as voting stock is concerned there could either be voting and non-voting stock or the corporation would just have to maintain 51% stake. more likely they would need to maintain a much smaller stake as voter apathy permits control with a stake in the 20% range. in order to make the stock object work it might be able to function like a reusable neural implant. when you buy the stock object you would file it \"read: implant it\", and that would create a flag that would allow you a vote. each one adds up and the voting mechanics would call that property to see how many votes you get. ccp shouldn't be too concerned about scams. even with a ton of regulation rl still has enron potential. look what happened when that scandal broke. everyone realized that a previously highly valued stock was worthless and the price plummeted. this is exactly what should have happened. as i said before, owning stock is risky. the value of the stock absolutely should not be directly tied to a corp wallet or asset valuation. this is because the amount of money in the wallet or assets do not represent future profitability, especially for a financial or trading corp. future profitability is a factor that typically reflected in price. the stock is worth exactly what someone is willing to pay at a given moment. from many of the comments, it sounds like players think that stocks are bonds and the dividend is the interest. stocks create a massive inflow of capital into the corp at the ipo, but after that, stock value increases help the stake holders in the corp only from the increased valuation if they sell stock, or if used by the corporation as assets that can be borrowed against.in conclusion, stocks are risky. stocks are not bonds. stocks should be market tradeable objects that are out of the control of the corp, unless they buy them back and go private. market tradable objects would automatically enable charting. lastly, voting stock could be be modeled after implants that would alter a \"vote\" property. i'm interested to hear what others think about this idea."
"no. be the whale, fit all expanded cargoholds in the low, load up on valuables and be sure to enter in the bio that you like the idea of space whaling."
"space whales should be a top priority."
"space whales are number 1 !!!!!!!!"
"+1 to silicon based space lifeform that are harmless.. some nasty pirate will most likely shove a few heavy missiles into its arse and lol at what happens"
"simple answer; /signed!not so simple answer; make the eve universe a little more interesting with interactive \"background\" like the passing comet ideas, spacewhales, moving asteroids etc etc. space is so extremely static right now it's rather lifeless."
"space whales, no.miniature giant space hamsters, yes."
"ok, funny.but. let's see.. a space whale being a multicellular being, living of reactions form harvested planetary or gas cloud origins. how? by chemically reacting those materials they scoop up from said planets or clouds.hunt them down and get yourself the endproduct of those reactions. of course they depend on the planets/clouds visited by the whale in question  aka pretty random : could be stuff like tungsten carbide, fullerides and other reaction results or various drugs  from the clouds visiting variation .you know, might actually be a good idea."
"i say put them in!!!!hmmmmm does my vote count even though i wrote the story???"
"btw if you do read the story, could you post your thoughts? thanks"
"well, of course it would!!!sign! alll ov yu musht shign!!!!!"
"well i for one wouldn't mind the odd reference in eve to dune. and whales in eve... might just be like navigators of the space guild in dune.perhaps a religio-genetic experiment gone wrong yet inexplicably brilliant by amarrian scientists on corpses of amarrian devoters mummified and transmogrified into a whale-like navigator with a special ability to traverse empire... or something"
"while \"whack a mole\" may be unappealing to large spaceholders - it is not too much to ask that a spaceholding entity commit to regular patrols to ensure that their space is secure. some element of \"whack a mole\" is actually what is needed to counterbalance the current \"trench warfare/absentee landlord\" of pos sovereignty. the key is simply to find a balance where a spaceholding defender must exercise the appropriate amount of patrolling in response to roaming incursions by light gangs. currently spaceholding defenders can all but ignore light gangs entering their territory, but pos maintenance is a grind. trading out a large part of the pos grind for a more active patrolling mechanic would, i think, be fair as long as defense patrols are more fun than pos logistics.the premise i'm thinking would work best would be to divvy up the sov benefits amongst more mechanics than just pos, so that ccp can make pos logistics easier  reduce the reward from pos and the work that is needed can also be reduced  and one or more fw-esque systems can be put in to carry the benefits that have been taken away from pos."
"i don't agree with the 'whack-a-mole' comment. if you feel you are running around too much 'whacking moles', that is probably a sign you have too much space.what i would suggest is activity based sovereignty. pos could generate some sovereignty points each day, but so should mining, ratting and pvping. that way, an alliance that actively uses an area intensively gets to build up more sovereignty than an alliance that just puts down 5 towers and runs off doing other stuff. which is also important i think with regard to the 'if people could easily destroy in a day what took months to build up, this would be unfair.'comment from wrangler. there is no need for 'building up' in the current system. five guys with carriers and jumpfreighters could pos a whole constellation in a day. boring, yes, but certainly doable. i see no reason why that should take long to dismantle, since it took pretty little effort to put up  certainly less effort than it would take to shoot the posses down again .if you had a system where a. sovereignty was decided on a constellation basis, and b. sovereignty was based on activity, then you make it possible that smaller gangs can get in on the sovereignty game, and by spreading it out over a constellation, you at least make it easier to spread blobs out a bit as well. in basic terms i would assign a number of points that could be earned with different types of activity, say 10 per activity per day, with posses, mining, ratting and pvping all getting a max of 10 points a day. then assign an attritionrate  say 1% per day . so if an alliance really uses a constellation daily for a long time, they would eventually build up sovereignty points up to 4000  at which point the maximum gain of 40 points per day would be equal to the natural 1% attrition per day and sov would be stable at that level. then make it possible for people to also lose 10 points per activity per day  in case of ratting and mining, people from other alliances ratting or mining in your constellation would cost you points .that would lead to a system where an alliance entrenches more and more the longer they live somewhere. if they live somewhere for a year, it would take about 3 months to degrade their sov completely back to 0  you could also make the maximum loss of sov bigger or smaller, depending on how fast/slow you want it to be possible to lose longheld space.i think it would make it sufficiently difficult for people not to just take your space in a few days time, and with posses also adding sov in this system a defender could even afford not to show up for minor incursions without being immediately threatened in their sovereignty. at the same time, if a defender would let a group of 20 recons constantly haunt them in their stationsystems, their sov gain would stop and probably start to decline slowly."
"here here!"
"agreed. this is a pretty important part of the game, especially with so many khanid and achuran players involved in major rp."
"/signed/sealed/delivered/me sings, 'i'm yours!'erm, seriously though, i would love to get a little more than the bare basics for the khanid/achur bloodlines.  of course the other two 3rd bloodlines, but i'm a little biased xd   edit: /signed by a member of the loyal coalition of boma minions. "
"/sign"
"yes, achura need some love"
"i was told to sign this. as a proud boma minion, i do so."
"the yurai-tenshin zaibatsu has more intelligent and educated work put into the achura backstory than the writers at ccp could ever hope to.we have been working on it for a solid year. we would glady get together with ginger/abraxas and folks to get something worked out. **** we will even do all the work for free. seriously though, this is absurdly overdue, and now all we have is a bunch of achura running around like the the deteis version of data from star trek. the jin-mei are even more of a mystery, and i am sure there have to be some individuals or groups running around out there trying to create some culture. same with the vherokior and khanid.more than anything else, this just reeks of the complex fullerene shard fiasco. you have people who are working their asses off to move the storyline along or at least branch it out and get some canonical info, and you write chronicles about gallentean spraypaint afficianados. anything you introduce in game needs to be a much higher priority than some fantasy **** material for everyone who already got tired of roleplaying. i fully support this initiative, but i am going to pod grak repeatedly if this results in the loss of a years worth of both public and private storyline development. tread lightly, but you have my support."
"/signed.there are enough of us achurans out there...we should have some history of our own."
"more then needed."
"pretty please with sugar on top. more prime fiction = good, but more prime fiction with information we're all dying to know = even better. it's not just doing those that  role play the third bloodlines a favor, but everyone who interacts with them too."
"i agree with this 100% and would like to add that what's needed is not simply the short-story style of chronicle that we've been seeing lately, but rather chronicles with actual background information such as the crystal boulevard, vitoc and the sarpati family."
"signing this thread as it's incredibly needed!"
"signed and sealed."
"as a slave in boma's nation, i am forced to agree with him."
"link to previous post which is lockedshort version of the above tl;dr: as far i am aware nothing has changed since last posting about this problem as mission mining having lower income at least compare to actually mining which make them extreme unattractive for the solo miner."
"eh, i have encountered the first bug i think, though not sure but pretty much what happens is i will lock onto like 4 targets or whatever and the drones pick a random target from either of these, and sometimes pick multiple targets, which honestly, lol kinda helps, i dont have to pick one target and tell my drones to sick him and switch back, they are already attacking another, lolalthough there is something that might be a bug that i have encountered, it is the annoying things of tracking:i brought my mega to a mission area, loaded w/ 5 heavies, there were 2 frigs left, i sicked the drones on them expecting them to go down easily, but the drones werent hitting, i figure it is probably because they are pretty big, so i go and get some medium drones   i have been using medium drones for a long time now, and have like never had a problem w/ them not hitting npc frigates   anyway, i load up these drones and still they are not hitting, these are medium drones not hitting, so i say \"hmm, thats weird\" so i go get a full set of 5 small drones, and i just sit there, cant go any smaller, and it takes like 20-30 minutes to kill 2 frigs w/ my dronesi know your probably asking why i didnt use smaller guns, but 1: this is a hard l3 mission, which kinda requires my bs, and i dont have a bc atm, or cruiser  lost the cruiser to fw, and the bc to a gate camp a while ago  so this is another issue, that should be addressed, as i said, i have been using mediums for the longest time and have never had a problem w/ them hitting small targets, in fact i would frequently in l2's just warp in my vexor and spit out my drones, and agress the whole mission and let my drones kill them all  was to lazy to train drones to lvl 5, was going to take a while   but anyway, this might be another bug that needs to be fixed as wellalso +1 for your topic, i havent encountered these bugs, but they seem problematic"
"proof of this plz?oh and thumbs up for this support"
"yes, this would be a useful change."
"for goddess sake, stop this \"replace it with more lp\", you know or should know that is the equivalent of saying \"nerf it to the ground\". if you add more lp the value will drop to 10 isk/lp in no time. re read this thread: removing loot t1, plenty of discussion since your last visit. but ccp don't like people blitzing missions. it will increase the speed at wick isk enter the game. they like mission that require time to complete and time to salvage. ccp has tried to reduce straight isk acquisition from mission for years, moving as much as possible to loot/salvage."
"i'll certainly agree on that. adding more lp is not a buff at all - 2x the lp equals half the isk/lp. most of the rewards for missions come from killing, not from completing. i've gotten a rash of angel extravaganza level 4 recently, so use those. i make 31 million in bounties, probably 20-30 million in loot and salvage on average, and less than 10 million from completing the mission. in pure cash terms, neglecting lp, loot, and salvage, over 90% of my earnings come from bounties. blitzing missions will hardly increase the rate of isk addition - it would lower it dramatically, which is why people don't do it. even with bigger completion rewards, the only mission i would do any differently is recon 1/3 - i wouldn't stand around killing hacs, i'd just kill the bbs and bcs and move on. making the blitz tactic less pathetic isn't going to result in an explosion of the money supply."
"if lp is worth so little why to people still flock to the high quality agents? oh and i just turned in 200k lp for 200million iskand when you blitz a mission you aren't getting all the bounties from all the rats, but you are getting the reward/bonus faster. overall i think that would be less isk entering than running the full mission. i do support removing meta0 loot from wrecks, but i cannot support removing meta 1-4 loot at this time."
"true, but that is the reason of the 70 km from acceleration gate to gate, and half of the reward from loot/salvage. with the right set up you can farm missions for bounties, but removing looting wioll make it more common, not less.1.000 isk/lp, but the conversion before the lp store was nearer to 5.000 isk/ lp."
"who said lp is worth little? we said it's highly prone to inflation - if you double the supply of lp, you'll halve the profit it produces per unit, roughly speaking. everything bought for pure lp and cash will crash in price, everything that requires tags as its limiting reagent i.e., faction gear  will stay about the same, since the supply of tags isn't changing, and the price of tags will go up to compensate for the price of lp going down. you might get a few l5 missioners extra who adjust to these new prices, but i expect that effect to be minimal, since so few people are at all interested in l5s or lowsec in general  and capable of running them. i can't do a full analysis without good data on the demand curves of assorted faction gear, but i can safely say that adding lp will not increase the total return on lp earned in the game significantly. it'll be a paper bonus only."
"interesting idea."
"removing t1 meta0 loot drops will help the t1 market for sure, but will drastically influence the mid and high end mineral market in high-sec space.this is not necessarily a bad thing."
"removing tech 1 non-named drops sounds fine to me.making named items into produceable, hmmmm. sounds pretty boring as all items will drop to researched bpo prices after a few weeks and not really change much. besides, ccp in one of those threads said it might be something like instead of looting a malkuth cruise missile launcher, you loot a meta 2 component and then turn it into a malkuth cruise missile launcher via the bpo. sounds like an unneccesary step to me."
"i hardly ever post on the forums as i'd rather just play, but i'd like to offer 2 cents on this.i agree completely that flying an industrial into 0.0 with no plan is asking for trouble. on the other hand, there's a variety of gank situations which happen  particularly to new players  which are deeply annoying, put people off the game, and which are sometimes not very realistic insofar as nobody would tolerate such a situation.a few random examples from my younger days...1. you're doing your first trading run in a lowsec system. you fly in a shuttle, case it out. looks ok. you go back and get your main ship, fly in, check it out aain, make it to port, and pick up your cargo. you undock, and someone blows you away with a single cruise missile while you're still reaching for the warp control. huh?!2. you go  npc  ratting in 0.0 for the first time, feeling very brave. after a nailbiting struggle, you finally destroy your first battleship - victory! what a sense of accomplishment, until you get blobbed by 10 ships while you're still bruised and bleeding.3. gate campers. enough said. someone suggested above that security grading should mean something, rather than just being highsec and lowsec and having different npcs. i tend to agree, and thought it worked the same way as that person did at first. it's well-balanced for a single player game, but as a solo rather than a team player, i just give the lowsec systems a big pass right now because it doesn't seem worth exploring in search of juicier npcs unless you're flying anything smaller than a battleship  i exaggerate, but you get the idea .some brief suggestions:1. yes, lose insurance if concord kills you. this is realistic.2. even in 0.0, some radius around gates and stations  eg 5km  should have a risk of causing concord or faction ships to appear. stations and gates are the economic infrastructure of eve. no society allows its infrastructure to be degraded. in the real world, we have real crime where ships or trucks are 'ganked' by criminals. but it doesn't usually happen right outside ports or at freeway intersections, it happens in remote places.3. players: don't leave it all up to ccp. when you get ganked and you know you're doomed, self-destruct and deny the gankers their spoils. that cuts their lulz short faster than anything else. but i would like eve not to tell gankers i am sding, let them find out the hard way  just as i did when i got ganked ."
"please read before you throw your two cents in. this is about high sec and your examples are all low and nul sec. also totally off topic and no, not enough said but that's a whole different ball of wax.realism has nothing to do with this argument. the insurance hits on concord death will not stop the suiciding of multi-billion isk haulers. it will hurt new players who don't yet understand the sec status of systems and want to blast someone.again real world analogies fail. also off topic. in the real world someone who just blew up a truck would not watch the police destroy their car and then have to stand on the street corner. they would be hauled into custody and tried asuming they weren't killed fighting the police at the scene. of course in the real world the police often fail to get their man, they do not have superweapons and they can be killed by return fire.concord and insurance have no real world paralells. they are game mechanics one designed to offer retribution for crime in high sec and the other designed to ofset the cost of pew pew.your first sentence here is the only part i completely agree with. sadly you didn't follow up with, get a scout fly smart and warp to zero.it takes two minutes to complete a self destruct. the action will all be over by then. unless you want to pod yourself after the gank.-galanp.s. if you would like to argue about any of the above please start a thread in gd, this is about suicide ganking in empire and you are totally off topic."
"bounty hunting...requirements to become a bounty hunter:standings with the bounty hunting corporation \"blah blah inc\" of 2.0 or better to even speak to a bounty agent.have a scannable list of locally placed bounties available or an option to name the bountied player you intend to kill.register your intent to hunt this pilot, flagging you both as kos to one another  red flashy to one another .if your killed by your bountied target you must re-register your intent to kill said pilot, but now with a 20k isk re-registration fee, this fee scales up each time you return after failing to kill your intended target until it reaches a balance with the bountied players bounty, at which point you will no longer be able to register to hunt said player.bounty hunters and their targets are immune from sec status hits for attacking and/or killing one another until the bounty is either collected, or the bounty hunter unregisters their intent to kill a bountied player.there are no kill rights generated by a bounty hunter killing a bountied player. i.e. the bountied player does not have a 24 hr period were he/she/it can go hunt down and kill the bounty hunter that killed them.  may need to be tweaked some the reverse of this is also true, the bounty hunter does not get kill rights if killed by the bountied player, rather they must re-register their intent to kill the bountied player  see above .corporations of bounty hunters can register intent to kill a bountied player for a nominal fee. at which point every member of the corporation becomes kos to the bountied player  this may need some standings tweaking etc to register intent to collect... this doesn't address suicide ganking but it does at least open and make viable the profession of the bounty hunter.stormwind"
"uhm just have concord instantly jam you or something and be done with it. why even waste time on something such as this, just pull a \"ultima online\" guards! type thing, might as well, you die anyways. just make it quicker."
"they already do insta jam, web, scramble and energy neut you and your drones."
"with a slight change, shift the insurance payouts to the gankee instead. if the gank ships aren't insured the gankee gets the default payment. also if you make a mistake and shoot a friend that's in a different corp he can return your insurance back to you.this system wouldn't change any of the real mechanics of suicide ganking, it would just shift the risk/reward a bit."
"for christ sakewhere is the problem?1. there is and should be no 100% safe place in eve ! - go play wow if you dont like it !2. there should be no insurance pay-out for ships killed by concord - simple solution.risk vs reward !!just for the record: i dont suicide gank  except macro miners  and i as such dont like suicide gankers but this is eve !!!!!no insurance-payout for ships killed by concord - problem solved !"
"i don't think you understand what i am talking about. they are not going to force people to go into low sec and shoot other people. by forcing them into a pvp npc corp they reduce their ability to travel freely in high sec, raise the risk of being ganked legally anywhere, and give them good reason to join player corps which can then be war dec'ed where as right now you cant compete with some afk macro miners setting in caldari provisions.if they would pull the guards away from the gates and put them at the stations then militia's could roam around in high sec attacking the opposing militia's logistics but the stations themselves would be safe unless the militia's were feeling brave enough to take down those tough npc fleets and pvp at the same time. then the militia's could legally camp stations and entire high sec systems while players would be either forced to move into a player corp or risk being hunted. this would also allow for smuggling as long as the customs agents and stuff are not much like the instagank concord gods. honestly i don't know if they are my only run in with them was in a frig a long time ago and i got instantly popped but was surrounded by bs's so didn't surprise me. if you made their damage per ship realistic though people could tank just long enough to get the goods into the station if they warped to zero and fitted for tanking and fast running."
"consider:the motive for suicide ganking is usually one of the following:1. thievery.2. logistical assault.3. grief.the reason for thievery is simple; people hauling 1 billion isk worth of material in a 500,000 isk ship with no defenses make for an appetizing target.the reason for logistical assault is simple; alliances and corporations hide their logistical and industrial base behind alts who live in npc corporations.the reason behind grief is usually a mixture of boredom and schadenfreude.of these, 1 and 2 can be dealt with while 3 will be an eternal problem no matter what mechanics are built to bar them. as for 1, i suggest that the main reason people take to suicide ganking for thieving is twofold. first, it's incredibly profitable in the short term. second, besides can flipping there is no real mechanism in eve online to steal from other players  for good or ill . i would suggest that a reasonable solution to this would be to create a module which allows one to steal from other players. a \"pickpocket\" module if you must. activation time of the module would take x minutes and upon activation the individual would become flagged to the target and their corporation. limitations for the module could be built in as to what it can and cannot steal as well as where it can and cannot be used. also, a defensive module could be designed - similar to warp stabs for warp scrams.as to 2, at some point characters should be ejected from npc corporations and forced into a corporation that is war dec'able. the npc corporations exist as a solution for new characters. and yet whenever i meet someone with a character 4 or 5 years old it would seem he/she is in an npc corporation. i'm left to believe that all freighter pilots are in npc corporations. perhaps limiting the size of ship one can fly in an npc corporation to cruisers or battlecruisers would go a long way to eliminating the scourge of logistical alts hiding in npc corporations.i would say it's devastatingly boring to the point of making me miss grinding in everquest, not painful. there are no options available to being a \"legitimate\" pirate in high security. make it so that individuals with outlaw status can engage without instant concord death and are chased through the system by faction ships and engaged by gate/station guns - even to podding - and i bet you'll see a marked increase in empire pvp but decrease in suicide ganking. i'm willing to wager that a number of the suicide gankers out there would rather be fighting targets that fight back - and are in fact trying to provoke such a response over the long term - and given the option of hunting in belts and planets versus gatecamping and cargo scanning afk industrials, they would take the former.legitimize. piracy. the problem you are seeing is a reaction to 1. boredom.2. safety of npc corporations.people who want small gang or solo pvp are becoming bored because lowsec and 0.0 is filled with gatecamps and blobs and empty of targets - the wolves own lowsec and 0.0 and the sheep have fled to high sec. the predators are merely following the prey. find a way to make piracy viable and you find the means to decrease suicide ganking and mission break-ins.create a pirate faction that can be joined by players and corporations. make them kos to militias. let them steal."
"i've been thinking about the quoted things for a while. i think a larger sec hit is too harsh. even worse, it is more likely to stop the pirates than the griefers. i am a missionrunner myself, but i would not want to see hi-sec ganks disappear. forcing them to use some more brains for the job would be really great on the other hand.i think most of the established mission runners would agree with me on that, this is why the \"void insurance for concord victims\" idea is so popular. this stops griefers nicely, while having lesser impact on those, who actually do in for the profit.that is why i am sad to see, that ccp is reluctant to implement this simple solution. they say that it may impact newer players too much:ok. i don't know if it's been proposed before, but i think i have a solution.tiered insurance loss:1  full payout to concord victims in frigate sized ships;2  75% payout for cruiser size hulls lost to concord;3  50% payout for battlecruiser size hulls;4  25% payout for battleship size hulls  roughly an insurance fee refund .the reasoning is obvious: you can't really be considered a 'new player', if you pilot a battleship. numbers can be tweaked, but that's the basic idea."
"there are plenty of ways to steal from people in eve. if it was actually about getting a return the pirates would be raiding corporate and alliance logistics in .0 and making a fortune. the reason why they are not is because they are not easy targets and pirates are a middle ground of individual that are not willing and not able to pvp with the big boys out in no sec. there is nothing wrong with that but this is the path they choose and there is no reason for it to be easy. killing macroers and afk pilots is fine by me but there is an equally large majority of pilots that are being targeted for little to no reason as pointed out by numerous testimonies here.the pickpocket thing is just dumb. if you want to chase people around and kill them for a profit fight a corp war. there is plenty of places where you can run around and be pirates, unfortunately those targets have teeth which is the point of low and no sec. if your going to go down there you had better be ready to deal with the consequences. i do agree that people being inside npc corps is the worst thing for the game as i stated above and will repeat a million times.i agree totally.i am almost 5 years old as a char  and the only time i have spent in an npc corp is when i wasnt playing the game.ummmm....no!!!! wtf are you crazy?!?!?! this is what people are trying to avoid.of course you would see a marked increase in empire pvp, half the population of the game would turn to piracy because you couldnt be stopped and the whole game would basically be low sec/no sec everywhere. if they wanted to pvp why the hell are they saying that killing afk people is the primary reason to keep ganking? i will give you a break to take your foot out of your mouth."
"better now?absolutely and i list a way to make pirates legit but they have stipulations. if they are in the npc pirate corp they cant come into high security at all. if they are in an player corp that is allied with say the guristas as part of faction warfare then they can come into empire space and raid against players that are declared for a militia. this would require that player be kicked out of npc corps after a month or so and place into the militia. yes what your talking about is old and frustrating but thats why the carebears dont go there, there is nothing there worth doing for carebears. the few places to run missions and complexes are so amazingly over camped by pirates and alliances that going there is an exercise in futility. is it a mission runners fault that they enjoy running missions? no its ccps fault for placing about 80% of the agents in caldari space, 19% in the other empire space, and 1% outside of high sec.the wolves are not following the prey the wolves are down in .0 and the carebears are in high sec and the buzzards are the majority of pirates that are spending their day ganking people that are asleep at the wheel or macro mining. then there is the refuse that are ganking people just to gank people and that is the problem with why its too profitable and to easy to do. every time a freighter with a few billion in cargo is ganked i salute the pirates who did the job, their job, admirably. every time a shuttle is ganked with no cargo and a noob pilot because its funny i post a link to this thread. as others have pointed out the pirates are bringing this upon themselves.mission break ins have nothing to do with it. if a pirate wants to break into my mission in high sec to steal my loot i will invite him to join my fleet so i can get fleet bonuses. if he wants to break into my mission and shoot me in high sec i would like to ask him to wait until i can get fraps running so i can replay this for him later as a what not to do instructional video. if he wants to break into a mission in low sec and try to gank me, well thats a risk people take going to low sec to run missions.i agree and have said so many times myself. in fact i dont see why the pirate factions cant capture control bunkers and such for themselves and make low sec systems fall under the jurisdiction of the guristas, sanshas, or whoever."
"suiciding an industrial hauling: 5 people.charging into iac space to kill a hulk: 20 people.the problem comes down to one of scale. to successfully raid 0.0, the current feeling is that frigates and cruisers just aren't going to cut it. having done a good number of runs through 0.0, i tend to concur. where i do encounter a miner, he's already out the door to one of 20 pos's in system and the defense channel is lighting up like a christmas tree  cva response time: 5 minutes on fri-sun., 15 minutes other days. :  iac: 5 minutes :   . and the response that shows up? i've never seen so many battleships in my life show up to kill 1 frigate. : given the lack of choices, of course people will suicide gank to earn money. never said it was good, just lobbing idea grenades. we do.the chief consequence being that almost 50% of the game is effectively locked out - the 50% where everyone hides. i love lowsec, lots of fun. i'm just not allowed to go there anymore until i grind my sec status back up. and i can't do 0.0  effectively  because i don't belong to a omg check out our size alliance that has planted a flag in p1-554. sure i can run in and out in my frigate, but getting chased out by 30 guys in hacs, interceptors, bships, and 5 interdictors gets old the 17th time.i think i spent my first month in an npc corp. then i joined up with my friends for some pirating.what people are trying to avoid is the repercussions for hiding behind the fuzzy pillow of empire that ccp has designed. everyone kept telling me how brutal and cut throat eve was before i started playing and i have to say this is the biggest bunch of carebears in history. the 'creators' and the 'destroyers' hide behind the shield of npc corporations, everyone uses stations as 'base' as if it were a game of tag, and short of being an idiot there really is no \"risk\" to anyone hanging out in high sec empire. i'm willing to bet i could run from one end of empire to the other in a shuttle flagged to everyone in the game and survive. and i'm sure i would win that bet just as i'm sure i bet i could make 1 billion isk mining my brains out in some ice field in gallente space.i know my anecdotal evidence doesn't matter, but when my 1,000,000 bounty self can afk-auto pilot 30 jumps in a hoarder with 3 jaguars and a pile of tech 2, i'm not scared."
"have the pirate faction work just like the militia and this sounds like a great idea.the people in 0.0 are not wolves. they are more like wild sheep. wolves travel in small packs and are incredibly territorial, but also wander far afield in the search for prey - wolves do not hold territory so much as chase off anything that enters while they are around. wild sheep on the other hand herd together in huge numbers and declare dominion over the fields. and they respond to invasion by gathering together and charging.the wild sheep are still the same sheep as the ones in the fences and pens of the farmers - the ones the wolves want to get to but can't because an electric fence keeps them out. they're just sheep that have realized that they can actually fight back.thematically, capturing and holding a position isn't really a pirate's cup. pirates charge in, loot what they can carry, and get out before the sheep notice what's going on and organize a response."
"so what the goonies are doing in hi-sec is kind of like \"sheep on sheep\" action. sounds kind of dirty."
"lol. the 'goons are just exposing the natural flaws in a game mechanic that tries to segregate \"safe\" and \"dangerous\" space - pvp versus pve if you will. the same thing happens in every game where there is segregated play space. ccp likes to talk big, but let's be honest; high sec empire is safe-space for 90% of the population there. members of empire npc corporations - with the exception of militias - are 99% safe. as a function of 'character kills per day', i would be surprised to discover if suicide ganking killed more than 3%. as a function of 'character kills of the entire population', i would be surprised to discover that more than 1% of the characters in game had been suicide ganked.i'd actually like to see the statistics from the game rather than just assume that what we see on the forum is reflective of reality in any way whatsoever."
"come on arkania don't play it off like that is a realistic option by not posting what you originally wrote which is a license to simply gank people in empire space under the guise of it being an attempt at provoking pvp. i totally agree with you that npc's corps are the majority of the problem but giving pirates free roam is a horrible idea. it's not a matter of making things completely safe its a matter of reducing random violence inside high sec to a bare minimum. players would be forced to settle for one risky proposition or another but at least they know the risk and the risk of pirates attacking a group of 5 that run lvl 4's for 2-4 hours 3 nights a week is pretty slim compared to a group of 2 that hauls down 10 billion in ice mining a week. i am writing up a proposal about that stuff right now and will link it when i post it but with success comes risk and it allows folks who want to be incognito to remain incognito but makes those hiding behind the npc corps walls that are making billions wide open and lit up like a light house."
"well most or all whines that are spewed on the forums are based either by emo rage or some personal morality conflict that has no basis on any type of logic or reality with in the frame work of the game. players are trying to use rl scenarios to support their argument in game. which makes little or no sense either since half of the crap they say happens in real life is either only half correct or just plain wrong."
"i think a discussion is pointless, ccp should continue to design this game according with their ground philosophies. the ground philosophies that  in my view  are: * sandbox * , as is: the players to the greatest extent decide what happens in the eve-universe, good or bad. in this case the original faction warfare-design  as-is  goes against this very philosophy. any alliance that dedicates a lot of time to doing factional warfare can still do so now, what i mean by that is that any negative consequences that follows with allowing alliances to participate are already there. the shielding of \"new pvp:ers\" already comes through the militia corps, and extending faction warfare to further deepen the complexities of this game by bringing it out into 0.0 seems in line with reason and good game design.faction warfare in essence is not just a way for people new to the game to easily get into pvp, it also is a means to deepen the involvment for all players, those in alliances or not with the storylines of this game. not just hardcore rp-alliances wish to make a stand for a faction, other alliances do as well. to address the argument where people mean that fw would become too dangerous if big entities moved into it, well what are the faction other than big entities? if \"goons\" decided to stop dedicating themselves to 0.0 and pursued total dominance of faction warfare, then alliance mechanics isn't going to stop them. corporations can already support thousands of players, so that is pretty much a moot point. no, the argument against allowing alliances in has nothing to do with the quantity of players into it, it has nothing to do with skilled pvp:ers making younger pvp:ers miserable  because that's already happening with organized corps already being in fw , the argument against fw doesn't even have anything to do with the fact that choices should matter  eg. you either choose to be in an alliance, or you do not  - because any alliance that join fw and dedicate itself to that already made a choice to stand for that faction, that's the choice involved. the consequence is that said alliance now can be attacked anywhere by the opposing faction. any alliance that choose not to join will be able to roam free without that same consequence.i strongly hope ccp will move allowing alliances into fw to the top of the priority-list, and urge people to stand up for this as well."
"/signgreat work that this is possible at all, but now we're hooked and neeeed dataaa!"
"i would like to have a prepackaged os and game that i can download from ccp. just give me everything i need to run the game on supported hardware."
"count me in for the closed beta, too.linux rocks-xen"
"heh heh... grid lags for five minutes as the enemy fleet jumps their second titan and support ships in.when lag is gone, everyone  and i mean everyone, titans included  is in pods looking at their wrecks... and the 45 dreadnoughts that mordus legion brought in to take down the titan pilot who's been eluding them for the last 6 months...mission running is more or less a different version of mining. both activities are dead boring. the macro miners have macros to automate the process of mining. why can't we at-the-keyboard players have the same advantages? have a module that pipes ore directly from our hulks to nearby gantries, which hold the ore while waiting for another hauler to pull up alongside and empty it?but this is a mission running thread, not a mining thread.missions do need a little more variety, but not much more - they're easy because they're predictable. people still lose ships due to killing the triggers in blockade for example.it would be nice, when picking a mining/courier agent, that one didn't suddenly have to clear out level 4 serpentis blockade. it would also be nice to be able to get missions from an internal security agent, without suddenly having to run 40k cubic metres of goods in 3k cubic metre boxes to a system 9 jumps away within 2 hours.i'd like to see more combat missions that relied on jamming/scrambling/webbing - the usual utility functions that are bread and butter for pvp players. i'd like to see escort missions, where we have to protect a freighter running goods to a station deep inside deadspace for example. this would be a \"gate camp light\" for the pve players to get used to some of the more common scenarios in corporate wars.missions that have to be completed by a deadline, or they are instantly failed  no early completion bonus, just a fail if you take too long . heck, pick up a copy of x-wing, x-wing vs tie fighter, or x-wing alliance for some nifty pve mission ideas which don't take a heck of a lot of work.would more pve be a bad thing, if all the new missions served as interactive tutorials in how to do role x in an alliance warzone?tackling, logistics, sniping, speed tanking, jamming, etc - these are all things that players need to learn in order to fully participate in fleet warfare. wouldn't it make life easier for established alliances if their new recruits at least had a passing familiarity with how to fit a frigate for tackling battleships?yes, there are corporations which specialise in training, but none of them seem to be available for casual 2-3 hours a week players like myself ; "
"heh - good point. i actually like hte idea of them showing up in a mission - appearing out of the blackness of space... \"ok mr mission runner, we've been waiting for you for weeks. time to pay for your crimes against our people... see if you can take this!!\" ... as a bunch of 7 figure bounty bs bounce into the mission area.safer for the industrialist, and yummier."
"i agree with most of the ops ideas; very well thought out and presented post.i disagree at the point where a module normally not fit has to be added, likely weakening the ship and possibly pushing missions towards a group effort.any changes that would push a group effort are counterproductive as most people do not want to rely on others to run those missions and make isk.the rest of the ops ideas i agree with, dynamic content would help dampen predictability.i add an idea about missions for the op to consider as well,the npcs could further be improved by having revenge as part of their ai; your flying home and get pulled out of warp by several npcs of the faction you just destroyed in the mission, looking for revenge. this wouldnt happen all the time, but occasionally it would be an interesting twist."
"i disagree with many of the proposals here.yes, it is silly to see a cloud of rats blissfully standing by while you slaughter their mates 60k away. however, building a more robust ai has consequences. ai, like all calculations, eat cpu cycles... consider the increased server load to improve every non-player ship currently engaged in a mission across the eve universe.  i'm not too worried this will be pushed through, as i personally don't think it can be done without things grinding to a halt. tweaks perhaps by talented programmers... but \"decent\" ai in missions seem out of reach. tarminic: for the love of god, please stop attempting to make me run missions in groups... you are pandering to your own play-style while ignoring others. it might stun you to hear this, but sometimes i'm tired and just want to run a mission alone. not always... but sometimes. it's not that i don't have friends. it's not that i'm antisocial  generally . sometimes i just want some time to myself.eve pvp is already group-centric; solo fighting has been pushed to the edge of extinction. now you'd like to push pve in that direction. tell you what: if you support making 0.0 ratting a group effort, then i'll go along with the missions as group efforts. how's that? or better yet... let's make mining a group effort. make 'em have to have buddies to mine those 'roids, eh? even in empire. just like you'd like to do with missions.does your proposal now seem a bit unbalanced in that light? missions should have to be done in groups, but mining and ratting not?i do not support the removal of t1 equipment. simply because there always has to be a lower tier of quality. currently we have t1-non-named, named, t2, and faction. removal of t1 non-named just makes named modules become the 'new t1 non-named'. it removes distinctions from the game.  note how similar this is to the local fast-food joint which 'doesn't sell small fries... they only have medium, large, and extra-large'. finally, your statement that \"removing unnamed t1 loot will make looting a bit faster ...\" is incorrect. honestly, if you're looting then you're probably salvaging... therefore you're close enough to pull crap from the wreck anyway."
"removing unnamed loot will only remove some mineral income. most of my income comes from salvage, and high-quality named t1 items  specific large laser or projectile turrets will sell for 1m isk in hiematar, for example . the unnamed t1 items are entering the market in large numbers from mission runners who don't refine  or can't do multiplication/division , my unnamed t1s usually end up as minerals.edit: i'd just like to point out that in my experience, graphical lag has more often resulted from nebulas and dust clouds, rather than the numbers of enemy ships in the deadspace pocket. one nebula appears to be made of hundreds of rotating, overlapping, intersecting, semi-transparent cloud pixmaps. these cause far more problems than the several hundred polygons used for all the ships in the pocket."
"someone, please think of us poor isk farmers! : ok, serious note, eve is not a porsche. while eve players seem more loyal than most, gamers tend to be extremely fickle. make it unattractive to play eve for one reason or another  such as with a price hike , and you'll end up alienating a significant part of your customer base.in eve, as with all other mmos, premium is not the key. volume is. volume is not achieved by alienating your customers by raising prices. volume is achieved by offering a good product, and having competitive pricing. the key here is competitive pricing.raising the price of gtcs  as has been done with the 60 day gtc being more than twice as expensive as the old 30 day gtc, and almost as expensive as the old 90 day gtc will only make your customers upset.please note that i'm saying this as a gtc seller, who made sure to stock up on 90 day gtcs before this happened. i'm making almost 50% more isk on each gtc i sell these days, which is good for me in-game, but i still think it totally sucks, and i'm no longer sure if i can keep selling gtcs for isk, nor keep up running eight accounts of my own."
"hear hear...."
"probably because ccp wan'ts to make the same money per subscription, and you're going through a middle man to get gtcs, and said middleman also wants to make money.you do realize you're asking why it's more expensive to buy at a retail store than directly from the manufacturer, right?"
"yes, something many of the guys here are missing is that although an established industrialist might be able to build components better themselves it will tie up several of their precious manufacturing job slots in order to be a one man band. this idea therefore encourages the formation of proper supply chains in order to produce finished products.the way i see it, newbie builders will be running these component jobs in order to produce components that the more experienced builders need for their jobs thus keeping the experienced builders slots available to react better to changing market forces. ideally these components would have an extremely low material/time cost per unit thus negating the need to tie up research slots for these parts.for example, you could have:-framework  0.01m3 each :- produces 1 per run material cost:-tritanium 40  so optimal me of 8. time to build:- 1 minutenow, for example, a shuttle bp will change from the current requirement of 2500 tritanium toframework: 25  40 tritanium each plating: 30  50 tritanium each this will have the knock on effect of greatly reducing the research requirements to have a perfect me print of a given bpo  with this example from me 500 down to me 6  thus relieving some of the pressure on the empire research slots. yes, more blueprints will require researching, however the level they need to be researched to is much less than before.edit: for mathematical inaccuracies in my example."
"it worked to a degree in swg, but the part that made it work they are not considering.in order to make the components idea work you need a system like swg had. where each component is researched and there is a difference based on materials. then they are combined for an end product that is unique.i was a long time crafter in swg until the nge. sadly eve's system does not provide the necessary quality of goods that swg had. i'd like to see such a system, but giving just t1 components for the sake of it in eve without adding in all the other complexities just creates a barrier for new players, and does not promote market health or cooperation."
"t1 construction, for ships in particular, is far too simple compared to its capital and t2 cousins. turn it into a real profession.and maybe help keep the \"minerals i mine myself are free\" lot away from the market"
"i'll attack this issue from another angle. t1 components could effectively allow for mineral compression. this would add huge amounts of actually interesting possibilities to the process. i don't support the idea of adding any barriers to t1 production. i'll say that flat out. the t1 market is where people cut their teeth on production, and it works fairly well in its current incarnation.to implement components for t1, while not adding barriers, the build times for the end products need a look. the total time to build an item shouldn't increase with the addition of components. drop the end product time to factor in how long it takes to cook its components. to get this to work ccp would have to make t1 components essentially replace minerals for *all* non-t2 items. that means we'd be looking at a two-patch process before this idea could be completed. the first patch would introduce the bp's for the components. then after a giving people time to research and build up a supply of components ccp could make the actual change. releasing it as a one-shot deal would be disastrous for a few weeks."
"curious, what happened?"
"the majority of fights that i have been in and seen in 0.0 have been nano vs nano, sniper bs vs sniper bs etc, rarely have i seen nano vs sniper bs etc.i fly nano ships and sure its nice to choose your fights etc, but imagine what happens if nano's are nerfed so they are un-playable. you would have 15 battleships spending hours to go like 40 jumps and once you get there they probably won't even fight so great, you just wasted a ton of time! or you could fly down there in nano ships and not waste as much time.not to mention with the number of titan's there are now what is your fleet supposed to do when there is a dictor bubble on a gate with a cloaked titan? fly out of the bubble at 150m/s? but no wait! fit a mwd! even that probably won't get you out alive and then at that what do you want caldari to do? gimp there tanks?"
"the reason for this is actually quite simple and has little to do with nano's being overpowered. roaming in a nano gang is much faster, which means potential targets have less time to respond, and you are better able to disengage  rather than safe spotting and cloaking and waiting till they leave . remote rep battleship gangs are great, they arn't that common because it takes a lot of time to move around in them and its relatively hard to catch hose easy ganks.i agree with jade here, people who are getting killed by \"nanos\" in equal numbers are not bringing comparable ship quality. if someone shows up in 10 nanohacs and a falcon you need to be showing up with 10 t2 fit battleships and a falcon. here is a simple fact: 10 pulse armageddons  t2 fit  will volley most nano ships. this combined with that in a ten man gang they will have low transversal if they move to range or are at close range  low transversal to part of the gang + high risk of getting webbed  means the ten t2 pulse armageddons  especially if they are rr  will win almost every time if the nano gang engages at all  if you have a bubble you can generally kill one or two even if they run ./edit  changed t2 battleships to t2 fit battleships like its supposed to be ."
"that's another thing, its not that nano is overpowered it is people not willing to adapt. they do the same old thing and when something counters them they complain that its overpowered."
"i agree that it shouldn't be about whoever blobs wins, but the current situation where the fastest wins is no better.as i've said earlier, ships have been this fast before with the dual mwd/wideboy age of 2004, and in time it was nerfed. it was the right thing to do then, and it's the right thing to do now./ben"
"jade, you made your fricken point a million times... why they heck you keep coming back like you need to boost your ego back up. we all dislike you anyway, you're a joke to this game and to the csm. now one gives a rats ass about your self-centered egotistical jade online agenda. get over it... realize there are two valid sides and your opinion is just that, a lame opinion. stop trying to defend it like you know what's best for this game. that's not your job. your job is to listen to the players... cuz we know what is best for this game. not some asshat that decs noob militia corps and gets his jollies off by camping fw borders. puh-leeeze. get a life."
"good post s  by jade. i fully agree. t2 standard nanos are fine and easy to counter. now a fully pimped, rigged, combat boosted, snake'd out nano-ship, that goes into crazy territory. should a cruiser really be ever able to go over 12km/s? i don't think so. so i fully agree with nerfing the ridiculously fast nano-ships.however, most of the nano-whiners are simply drake pilots who are upset that their drake doesn't pwn t2 pc cruisers like they pwn missions/rats. this has been demonstrated by looking at the combat habits of most of the nanowhiners. so no, i will never support just a nerf to speed modules/ships.also, i'd like to point out this thread has over 200 replies and only 40ish support, that's 20% support. doesn't look good for the nano-whiners."
"nice stereotyping of the petitioning group there. considering many pvpers from a wide range of backgrounds think speed has gotten excessive, including my favorite friend and polycarb/snake crow *****, you obviously have no clue.20%-ish support is enough for the forums. most people don't actually click the support button, and it is not indicative of exact numbers of support within the community. that there exists a multitude of threads many pages long attempting to tackle this problem is proof enough that the level-headed among the community want something done about it."
"i think that a moderate small nerf to moderate nano fits should be looked at. and crazy silly nano fits should be just made less available. reworking pirate faction lp stores?"
"no supportnanos are fine learn to pvp"
"it is not stereotyping, it is a simple matter of using google. for instance, you fly crows and megathrons so if you talk about how a nano-hac is totally unbalanced then we know it is certainly a one-sided viewpoint. in many nano-whine threads i have shown that the op or rabble-rousers fly only drakes, a few like dhb wildcat actually flies nanos, but that is an oddity.the thumbsup/support mechanic is used a lot. it is clearly shown to everyone before they make their post and lots of people use it. the 30/90 day gtc thread has gotten over 70% support tnad that is almost 1,000 posts. 20% is a very low number for support if you actually looked at popular threads and you know compared them instead of just trolling."
"-c-r-a-c-k-s his knuckles-  stupid filter well, first and foremost, kyoko's very much right about the stereotyping. moreover, if you'd like to check my stats on the morsus mihi killboards, out of the 17 different ship types i'm listed as having flown, you"
"except that this post has a lot of people arguing back and forth and you can only show support once. for example no thumbs up on this post because i already posted with a thumbs up earlier .look me up on the killboards if you want - i've been flying virtually nothing but nano-hacs and nano-rapiers so far this year. i've killed plenty of nano ships, and i've lost a couple of nano ships.not a drake in sight.the problem with nanos is they essentially have no drawbacks. they can choose their fight, tank infinite amounts of incoming damage, roam fast, tackle, deal ok damage - all in one handy versatile package. i'm not stupid so i fly them myself - that doesn't mean i think they are balanced or that i will cry when they are gone though."
"okay, i've been largely staying out of this thread, but i feel, after reading a few of jade's posts, that i must respond.jade,first and foremost, while i generally respect your views quite highly, in this area i find myself in very strong disagreement with you.to begin with, your original argument was that nanos were needed because of blobbing, 0.0 sovereignty, and jump bridges. it was pointed out that this was not sufficient justification for a universal mechanic that includes both lowsec combat and highsec empire wars. at this point, you changed tack to your \"horse archer\" analogy, basically stating that horse archers  nanos  should be completely immune normal infantry  i.e. anything not nano or nano counter . while i could quibble with your reversal in reasoning, i will instead give you the benefit of the doubt and address your current argument.first and foremost, i'm going to proceed on the basic assumption that eve is a sandbox, and that diversity in pvp is a good thing. both of these items reflect statements made by the developers, so i feel them to be fairly safe projections.so let's talk diversity. we'll start with gang setups:prior to the original nano buff, you would see pretty much every type of ship in pvp with many different fittings. you would see interceptor gangs ganking pretty much anything; t1 cruiser gangs making the most of eve's diminishing returns by killing much more expensive ships and losing half their gang in the process; slow, heavy firepower short range bc/cs/bs gangs  not necessarily remote repping ; fast moving  in terms of system-to-system movement  hac/recon gangs; electronic warfare whoring gangs; snipers; supertanked remote reppers; capital blobs; and  gasp  even nanos. what's more, all of them were effective.now let's discuss what you see nowadays that's still effective. right now, you only see a few of those: nanos  for obvious reasons of invulnerability to anything not nano or nano-counter , remote repping gangs  because they can soak up stupid amounts of punishment , capital blobs,  because you still have to kill pos , and e-war/nano-counter gangs  self-explanatory .what about the items not on the above list? well...interceptor/frig gangs - not much point when nano hacs are just as fast as the old pre-nano interceptors and have vastly more firepower and survivability.t1 cruiser gangs - rarely seen because they stand pretty much no chance of killing any of the four still used gang types.heavy, non-remote-repping gangs - pretty much nonexistant because they can't kill nanoers very effectively and don't have the tank of the remote repping gang. also, bc and cs are not much seen in remote gangs due to medium remote reps' poor range and repair amount. this makes non-fleet command bcs largely irrelevant in today's pvp.snipers - useless without a significant support gang  read: blob  due to their vulnerability and the ability of nanoships to be on top of them almost instantaneously.while this is by no means an exhaustive list  i'm too tired to take time for a full list of gang types , it should illustrate fairly effectively that there are a number of playstyles that have been invalidated as a result of the current nano situation. this is quite the opposite of diversification and contrary to the developers' stated intentions for the game.this is also quite contrary to the argument that nerfing nanos will reduce diversity. the people who make this statement seem to be equating \"nerf\" with \"completely invalidate\", though for some it may reflect the fact that, once nanos are no longer \"i win\" buttons vs. non-nano and non-nano counter ships, they will be \"useless\". some people just want their god-mode and will resist any change calling for its reduction, even if that call for change means they would still be useful afterwards without being omnipotent."
"the end result of nerfing nanos so that they're still useful but not \"i win\" buttons vs. anything but nanos or nano-counters is that you would see more diversity in ships flown and that list of ships and setups would still include nanos. funny how that works, isn't it?now let's talk playstyles. let me begin with an outrageous statement:once upon a time eve was not all about the blob.shocking, isn't it? you used to find a lot more small gang action  as in gang size under ten people, not today's \"small gang\" i.e. 30-man fleet  and even  gasp  solo work. that said, let's examine the effect of nanos on each. please note that i'm assuming the nano pilots are competent.we'll begin with the much despised solo pvp. let me preface this with a short disgression: \"eve is a mmo - you're supposed to fly with buddies\" is a common argument. the difference here is that eve is a sandbox mmo, meaning it's all about choice. some people choose to fly solo sometimes to test or show off their skill, ships, and abilities, and they're still playing with other people the whole time...those people just so happen to be their targets as opposed to their groupmates.anyway, back to the effect of nanos on solo pvp. simply put, if the ship you're flying isn't already a nano counter, it will die if it can't get back to the gate or station...or if it's not at a gate or station. sometimes good piloting can allow you to escape by forcing the nanoer into making a mistake, but this can be very difficult, especially if you're in a larger, slower ship. the net result of all of this is that solo pvp in anything not nano or nano counter is pretty much dead. blobs have an effect, too, but while you can avoid blobs if you play your cards right it's much harder to avoid nanoers.what about small gang pvp?well, a good nano counter setup requires a number of roles to be filled that are not absolute must-haves in a normal gang. you need multiple huginn/rapiers/hyenas to stop the enemy nano gang from moving, multiple e-war to jam the nanoers to prevent them from primarying your webbers and taking them out, and dps to take out the enemy once you have them locked down. optional roles include multiple fast frigates with webs to get into suicide range and lock down the targets, and neutralizing ships to kill the enemies' cap and stop them from mwding; the latter doesn't work all that well due to momentum and the fact that nanoers usually still have time on their current mwd cycle to burn out of range once their cap has been nuked.the upshot of all of this is that it usually takes a goodly number of ships to kill a competent nano gang, quite often moving the gang size from \"small gang\" to \"large gang/small fleet/blob\". this means that, in such situations, small gangs are pretty much out - and, in 0.0, it's almost always a nano situation.so there are fewer playstyles that are truly viable as a result of nano unless you wish to fly nano yourself. again, less diversity.let me also take another moment to digress and address the \"it's a win if you make the enemy run away, too\" pro-nano crowd. simply put:no, it isn't.why? imagine you've been out trying to pvp, yet every fight the enemy just runs away from you the moment the fight looks to turn against them. now imagine this happening with almost every fight you run into - simply, you're not getting any kills and not having much fun. eventually, you're going to stop bothering because it's just not worth the effort. after all, they have a word for people who keep doing the same thing over and over and expecting a different outcome..."
"an excellent post wayreth. i agree whole-heartedly."
"okay, one more thing, then i've got to go to bed so i can be up for work in three and a half hours:the \"horse archer\" analogy is bull, plain and simple. first and foremost, there's a reason that most people decry real life comparisons. simply put, eve is a game, and in certain respect should not match real life. a good touchstone to determine this is a simple and straightforward question: does this mechanic destroy the fun of the game for a large number of people? if the response is \"yes, then you have your answer.for instance, pos sovereignty - ccp has stated a number of times that they're not happy with it and that it detracts from the game...as has much of the playerbase.the same holds true for nanos; not everyone enjoys flying them or flying their counters. to use myself as an example, i can fly both the rapier, huginn, and curse to counter them, and can also fly any nano hac or recon in the game excluding those of the gallente race...but it doesn't mean i have fun doing it. i enjoy ships that have lots of firepower and lots of tank, but the current eve mechanics don't allow me to use them in many situations thanks to nano. this is one of two major reasons i'm flying in lowsec instead of 0.0 right now, and i know a lot of other players who share my views.back to the horse archer comparison - you say that you're supposed to skirmish with them. fine, then - skirmish implies that you strike then fade away, not stay engaged until your opponents are all dead. sadly, nanos give you the ability to do just that - unless your opponent is flying nano or nano counter himself, you're largely invulnerable to him. moreover, even if he is flying nano-counter, the moment your gang determines this they will just disengage and run. your opponent may get one or two kills, but unless he significantly outnumbers you  or your gang's pilots/fc are stupid  he won't be able to take down your entire gang. again, it defeats the point of even trying.to sum it up:diversity is good.nerfing nanos while still keeping them useful promotes diversity.you should not be forced into a certain, limited playstyle to be effective in pvp.eve is not real life or doom. horse archers/god-mode vs. normal ships should not exist; iddqd is not an eve keyboard command.anyway, i had planned to be more eloquent and address a few other points, but, as usual when i'm tired, i ended up rambling on. hopefully that was coherent and useful, but i'm not certain it was. i'm off to bed. cartman voice  screw you guys, i'm going home. edit: lmao - just realized i forgot to support my own original post."
"how many? im not tryin to be a smartass here, but this thread isnt getting alot of support i personally find nano ships to be quite fragile and not invulnerable. i dont think it takes more skill, numbers or effort to kill a nano ship. any battleship fitted with mwd, neut and injector will kill any nano ship that stays within 24km range for to long.could you spesify a bit more? which ships and setups?how do you reach this conclution? i would personally do less pvp if i didnt have the option of flying nano,  and i do not prefere to fly nano.  assuming people that dont like nano would pvp more, if there wasnt any nano, doesent mean that it would be more pvp. what do you mean by this? that every thing should be slowed down  including tracking and explotion velocity  or making speed tanking less effective by reducing just the top speed? i guess im not quite clear on what you see as the main problem, that they take little dmg when going at top speed or that they have speed enough to disengage when they start to take dmg. interesting point, im assuming you are talking about sac, cerb, curse and ishtar here. some ships dont have to worry about tracking which is a huge bonus when it comes to speed tanking. i'm not sure those ships need a nerf. but if they did i dont think the answer is to nerf speed itself.even if i did agree with you in some of the nano issues, this statment makes it impossible for me to sign this thread. personally i think the nano issue could be argued better if you left the recons ew bonus out of it."
"supporting this"
"actually that's true. i've supported the topic because i think nanos need nerfing but i don't agree that recon ewar does  or to be more accurate i think that is a separate case to be evaluated after the nano nerf is done ."
"one of eve's great strengths is its rock-paper-scissors flexibility. for every ship type, pilots of equal skill and resources may employ counters that are not merely getting more of that ship type. this paradigm is broken with nanos. they are scissors that can rarely be countered with anything but more scissors."
"if nothing else, it seems like it would be easy to do."
"bump"
"agree"
"woo!"
"i dunno, off day maybe?ok, back on track now: yeah, and if i see the usual \"we are looking into that/this/the other, kktxbye!\" usual bs i'll puke."
"very nice list there ... where are the suggestion threads so people can vote for these issues to be brought up at the next csm meeting?"
"last i checked i have a utility-only 8th high slot on my drake. i also have severe fitting issues with 7x haml iis, which the ship was supposedly the posterchild for.nighthawk needs a lot of help be it the bastard child of the ferox or the drake. you need grid to fit the nifty toys like a command module or a tank. grid is sorely lacking here.the added cpu is also required for the command module to fit, as well as for added shield tanking. that the sleip has more cpu and grid available after fitting its primary weapons means that we're in the same situation with the cerb and sac--that the caldari ships are merely ****-poor/watered down versions of other races. not asking for pwnage, just parity!"
"nvm"
"the tank is certainly a big part of the nighthawk problem. in pve, you can get the classic passive tank on fairly easily, and it works well enough in pve. but it's completely useless for pvp, meaning that not only does the pvp-fit nighthawk have awful pg and a useless precision bonus, but also that it doesn't actually tank very well at all. anyone saying that the pvp nighthawk has an uber tank is talking about a pve fit that simply doesn't work in pvp. you can't get a viable active tank on - you don't have the pg or midslots - and the buffer tank is only slightly better than a comparably-fit drake's buffer tank - ~100k ehp or so."
"some caldari  most iirc?  t2 ships start with 80% thermal resistance, 70% kinetic, 50% explosive and 0% em. i think i'd use amarr drones there maybe they could use a touch more damage, but i wouldn't call amarr drones a sick joke. they are tougher by a small margin, and have limited uses."
"sure, those are the base resists, basically the same as gallente t2 resists. but anyone within a hundred jumps of pvp puts a specific em hardener on a shield-tanked ship with those kind of shield resists. when it's 55% em resist plus invulns, then all of a sudden amarr drones are less damaging than minmatar, on top of being slower and only having a tiny bit more hp. as for amarr drones being tougher, compare them to gallente - they have the same armour hp, but about 30% less shield and 50% less structure hp. they're a touch tougher than minmatar and a touch weaker than caldari, but not by much in either case. gallente drones have the most hp by far like they need the help , not amarr as you imply."
"yes please. i'm an amarr rper, focused on drones as my main combat weapon. i'd really love to be able to effectively use my racial drones like any proud amarrian should."
"hmm i don't see a problem ... but i almost exclusively use sentry drones ...."
"just to make it explicit, sentry drones are fine - they split up nicely by damage/range/tracking. i couldn't reasonably label any of them as \"best\" or \"worst\" - gardes are ogres without travel time for the mission crowd, bouncers and wardens can make surprisingly good sniper domis, and curators are a reasonable middle ground. they've all got the same hp, too. i wouldn't be surprised if the amarr one still sees the least use, but it's not gimped in any way like the normal amarr drones are, it's just in a spot on the progression i expect most players to not like very much. i don't advocate changes to sentry drones or fighters , just the light/medium/heavy combat drones."
"caldari drones are awesome, nice balance between speed and damage with a good damage type."
"i agree that amarr drones need a buff."
"boost amarr drones."
"sounds good to me."
"yesand faction dominix  with other faction t1 battleships too pls and tech ii drone upgrades  nav comps, control augs, and omnidirects pretty please"
"this idea is a complete waste of resources. who cares if you learned an extra skill 'by mistake'?"
"well, i've had it.this is the second time i've gotten stuck in jita tonight. my account is effectively broken as i can't log in to my main character because of that godforsaken system that all major routes around caldari high-sec seem to go through. i'm certain that handling stuck petitions from jita takes up a great deal of the gms' time, and i'm certain most of the people who get stuck are people who have to get through the system to go somewhere else.a simple fix to this would be adding a new button to the autopilot, 'prefer less populated.' this would plot you around systems with a certain number of people, determined by a slider bar much the same as the one used for prefer safer/prefer less safe. this means you have an option to avoid lag-riddled overpopulated systems that cause people to crash out.seems simple enough... what does everyone think?"
"this."
"\"chemal tech is an established hi-tech company that was at the forefront of electronic warfare technology a few decades back. though the fortunes of the company have somewhat dimmed since then it still cranks out top quality ew equipment.\"due to faction warfare, it is not always possible to enter enemy faction space for invention purposes.being primarily a gallente player i an familiar with the gallente situation and i would love to see r&d agents for chemal tech.hopefully other community members will step up and give ideas for the other factions as far as what npc corps would be apropriate.thank you for your consideration.tribe"
"eve library section of the forums?"
"could you perhaps make it possible for player owned stations that market actions are unavailable to anyone not currently docked in that station? then alliances have a choice, by making remote buying impossible they could excercise some control over who could buy their stuff, without having to flag each transaction."
"this is excellent. can we get any more details on this? are you planning on going with ie/trident/mshtml, safari/webkit, firefox/gecko, opera's engine, or an anonymous third party? will it support multiple windows, javascript, possibly even plugins  flash, etc. ?it would be an excellent choice to support a well-known browser engine into the game, and bonus points for one that's actually standards compliant. please don't make this a side-thought. the ingame browser is a significant hindrance on expanding the games utility, especially with the api making generous improvements."
"i appreciate the honesty here, the logistics involved in running a forum with this much traffic are impressively nasty. not to mention the juggling the actual game hosting too. that being said, mmo forums are universally a gripe.i'll throw my .2 iskies in here and suggest possibly opening up the dev work for the new igb to the public. pick an open source engine, do the in-house work you must do for security reasons; and then open up the project sourceforge style. eve is unique in how technically competent a large portion of its user base is. i'd bet there are legions of people that would gladly put silly amounts of time and effort into a dev project for this game if they were so allowed. not only would you get a ton of free  well nearly  dev work, it would be a huge pr idea. the only mmo that is actively being worked on and improved by its player base. my degree is in cs, not marketing, but you don't to have one to see the possibilities there."
"yes. the igb experience is vital to my corp, and i know it is to many others who have the benefit of wizards who can work with it and create applications for it. i for one believe the igb revamp should be a major project, and not something left on the side-burner for months/years in order to bring forth more features. ccp itself believes in this method, so don't let us down now."
"i fail, support this!"
"no wonder noone can spell \"hangar\" properly anymore..."
"you'd be right, and i thank you for your opinion....and thank god for you, my friend. without you, i would be out of a job.  well, not really, because i'd probably just go do something exciting, like mining, which is so much more interesting that mission running. hard work? you didn't just say \"hard work\"?! bwahahahahahaha!get friends, or give up that little bit of dps or tank. i see other people doing it. why can't you? not enough skills? here's a tip: train more.ok, so your training is so scary hard, and my training is so scary easy? give me a break. you make yourself look stupid by your own explanation. here's what ccp should do: make you have to scan down your missions. you couldn't find your ass with both hands, so don't go telling me your training is any more important.yes. so?i can do missions just fine. i choose to interact with people, instead of machines. yes, that's right. i'd rather have a relationship with a real person, than have a cherry 2000, like you.  look it up, smart guy. heh. if they ever change the dynamic, we'll just come back and blow up your ships once you take your shot. go ahead. change it. i dare you.what? you obviously don't know how aggro rules work. must be from only running missions.  go ahead. prove me wrong. you're the scary pirate! rarely, and especially not with nubs like you.i can't steal what's not yours. start cleaning up your own mess, mission boy.  oops, sorry. carebear! \"carebear tears fuel my ship!\""
"unless you are going to salvage the wrecks yourself, i'm not sure i see how ninja salvaging is theft of any kind unless i am also looting, in which case you would get aggro. sure, if you're gonna salvage yourself then i guess i am taking some isk from you, but otherwise, why do you care so much?  and don't tell me you don't when you go around blowing up your own loot just so i can't salvage it?  i see lots of people comparing ninja salvaging to ore theft, but there's a huge difference: in ore theft i am stealing the item that the producer plans to sell to make isk, when salvaging i am not, you didn't run the mission just to salvage it and i am cleaning up a mess you were going to leave behind.i know i am new to eve, but i really don't see why mission runners get so bent out of shape about the salvaging, i don't see how it affects them in the slightest."
"i like the cut of your jib! given any thought to ninja salvaging as a profession?"
"there's this song by justin timberlake, called \"cry me a river\". maybe you should give him ring."
"i for one hate bigots, they really bother me. with a gay brother and a black girlfriend i encounter them daily lol but hell i dont think anyone should have to be subjected to it ingame or on the forums so:proposal 1: change the word filter. proposal 2: make bigotry a bannable offense on eve-o. not a permenant ban, but a slap down as appropriate.proposal 3: make bigotry a mutable offense in eve  1 week / 1 month / lifetime  in the local channel.i think personally this is a no brainer and should be like this already. i would hope 1 and 2 are implemented asap altho i recognize the problems with 3. from a legal perspective leaving homophobic words around while covering racial words is dodgy but tbh its not even an argument, it should just happen."
"two and three are already that way  sort of . as for a word filter, get a life, seriously. they're words. if you don't want to hear them, block the person. i see games/items that implement word filters that are not optional as completely childish and immature."
"opening poster if people wish you moan let them moan. this is a forum so there will be opinions. if you can't respect an opinion or in this case a whine they a  don't read it b leave the forums.i honestly am shocked you'd get so stressed out over someone complaining in a forum! give it a rest, take a deep breath and relax.whinners will always moan and if they do, what's it to you? if it makes them feel better leave them be and stop breathing fire over it ffs. i doubt every player including you has never once moaned about something in his eve life. that wouldn't be unusual, the game isn't perfect."
"i wouldn't mind seeing crystal set being +shield hp. thought it may be unbalancing for passive shield tanking in some cases, then again it's not like snake sets aren't exactly insanely powerful either at times.it is kind of a bummer that the capital shield booster is not effected by the crystal set, though to be honest for most pvp with capitals, the extra hp buffer would be much more useful."
"the phoenix gets a double missile bonus which adds 25% more dps [though kinetic only is a stupid stupid stupid bonus], it does effectively have as much dps as a naglfar. also when you fit 2-3 bcu ii on a phoenix it again, adds dps to all its weapons, which means, tbh a 5th high slot is not needed.why does the phoenix have a turret hardpoint? i have no idea. its worthless.i do think citadels do need boosted so they dont get smart bombed so easily and hit targets faster, but thats a different story i guess."
"i left this corp because of decisions such as these. i can't believe you don't see the logical picture here, there's a lack of common sense and leadership direction. this frustrated me all though my time in unv-corp.if you appoint 10 directors you increase the chance of theft. not only that, you appointed people who just 1-2 months ago were just starting out in eve! it's always wise to appoint a minority of proven, loyal, trustworthy individuals to avoid such things as theft. i doubt most corp hanger thieves are willing to wait 1-2 years to raid the hanger....you also had the chance to pick from about 4 people with between 2-5 years experience in eve and have spent endless months in the corp. it's unlikely they'd steal. this mistake could have been easily avoided. a few of these loyal members have now left the corp that once said \"loyalty and hard work is rewarded\" that is simply not the case. i understand one of the people who got appointed as a director since sold his stake in the corp allowing you to lose majority control. he also robbed the hanger. this was all caused by poor decision making and total incompetence.you also made the corp move to 0.2 when the corp was largely new players inexperienced in pvp and insufficient to fight off even remotely dangerous threats. i said from day one this was a mistake and we'd lose the system. people got podded, insufficent dps to take down a pos, unwillingness to travel to 0.2 and ship after ship destroyed. no surprise several days ago unv waved the white flags and fled to high sec.how is this any surprise? it was written in stone. i understand the corp is now leaving for another low sec system to try and take that. using the same strategy with even less players and experience will not change anything. it will bring more death. another awful decision.i wish the corp well but you lost 20 members in a few days, many very good players and have replaced them with infant pilots. i'm staggered the current leaders can't see the mistakes they're making.you should stop blaming game mechanics and start seeing the mistakes that have been made and are being made. it will not change until you recognise poor decision making, absolutely crazy appointments to senior positions, and naive, irrational decision making.this post won't be popular with my friends in unv but sometimes a person must stand up and have the guts to point out the harsh realities of a truely dire leadership reign."
"donate several million dollars to ccp, and they'll be happy to make their servers run better. until then, just stay the hell out of jita on a saturday afternoon. everyone agrees lag is a problem, ccp included, but whine thread #8472 isn't going to fix it."
"as long as the size of the player base keeps going up, the lag fixes are invariably going to be temporary affairs. i'm not old enough to remember yulai being the hub, but i can't imagine it had anywhere near the 500-1000 jita regularly entertains today. and yet, it was probably just as bad, if not worse - they still haven't had to resort to wrecking jita yet. such is life - if it doesn't lag, people fear it less and go there more until it lags again. maybe if it could handle 3000 concurrent users it could stand up for a while, but that's beyond what ccp can reasonably implement. lag happens, and i'll take what fixes i can get to it, be they incremental or substantial."
"i already told hammerhead to \"fix ur game\" a couple times so i think he's on the ball."
"i'm not really concerned with getting 3000 peeps in a system per say. what i wanna see is a server that can make the aoe damage calculation of a titan's dd quickly."
"did this include sitting on him, tickling him and making him call uncle?"
"i am kind of interested in the iceland meeting minutes.if anyone could please accidentally leak a version ..."
"look in the assembly hall forum - it is now cluttered and spammed to death by the iceland meeting discussion threads."
"voted for both goum and jade, hoping both would get in so there would be an enormous ***** fight.was disappointed."
"i agree with the op"
"i disagree with this proposal. the wreckage and surviving modules belong to the victim. if he or his friends are in no position to claim the wreck then they may console themselves with the  all too brief  kill-rights on the thief.by what right does the ship's killer claim the surviving goods? because he activated weapons? got the killing blow? or highest damage? does this legally entitle him to the goods?law of the jungle baby... if you make a kill but are unable to defend it from other predators, then you deserve to go hungry. just like the savanna, eve has its jackals.it's not that i'm unsympathetic to those who lose loot during an empire war. it sucks. but saying a ship's killer has any legal right to the goods is opening a big can of worms."
"agreed."
"i agree with the salvage stealing to be aggro/killright flagged. there is no rational reasoning to let the scavengers to just come and take or extract anything from what we just killed and leave without any fear of revenge."
"support 100%"
"thumbs down.i'd support removing security status loss from stealing.but:1  looting a pilot's wreck should flag you for that pilot.2  looting a wreck that somebody else killed should not be a free flag for the killer."
"thank god that's not what the original post is about, eh? nice of you to come out, though."
"o/ ... op here ... just waiting to hear what's going on with this [issue]summary so far:1. thread started2. [issue] discussed3. [issue] taken to csm for vote of approval to bring to ccp4. [issue] taken to ccp5. [issue] made 'high priority' by ccp/csm6. :: waiting for decision on [issue] ::wow what a process ..."
"dual ownership. best answer."
"ladies and gents, how about you all look here: upcoming csm meeting - and notice a part about \"biggest unadressed assembly hall issue\" i would think we qualify, don't you? so far csm members issued no statement regarding misinformation they had given us. members of the csm had shown support for implementing this pain in the ass ignored by ccp for over 2 years idea that has unilateral support - as i see it, and yet they have failed to either answer the questions as to why lie to us, and tell us it has been submitted to ccp, or if it was submitted, why it is missing from ccp-csm meeting notes. i suggest you all take a walk there and let them know what you think, that is, unless we are so apathetic at this point and do not really care if we are blatantly lied to or led on, and then ignored in favor of pet projects.i will continue quoting them, their own words regarding this, till we hear something:"
"replied to this here. bottom line its not a conspiracy. its just a mess up somewhere along the line and i'm honestly not sure where. this issue got voted through the csm and as far as i know was submitted to ccp for the formal meeting in iceland yet didn't appear on the agenda there. at the time we resolved to just make sure it gets resubmitted for the 2nd formal meeting. its already been voted on, its going on the agenda for 2nd meeting. not sure what else i can say about it. i have no idea who messed up. or how it happened. but for whatever reason it didn't get on the formal agenda in iceland and that meant there was no substantive ccp comment in the face to face discussions - hence why its not listed on the minutes feedback."
"thank you jade - i am sure we will be awaiting some information forthcoming in august. the reason for all the shouting is perception that the issue was ignored despite the statements to the contrary by csm. mistakes happen, especially when so many different issues are involved.... again, i appreciate you actually coming in here and letting everyone know."
"supported. though, couldn't csm oversee the balance process. ccp doesn't seem to have any hope of getting the \"slow, incremental and cautious\" approach to balance. we either get op stuff or prenerfed stuff from them."
"definitly need some help with these shipstribe"
"i have to agree. these ships were nerfed pretty horribly. situation does need looking at again and your proposal  returning to pre-nerf strength on that class of bonused ships makes sense .supporting this.also - ccp this is what you made me do to my arazu!"
"this makes sense. i was an arazu specialist before the nerf and now it is just gathering dust.i like the idea of increasing the range on damps rather than just boosting their strength agani though, as that would make them very effective vs snipers and falcons giving them a clear niche role.something like  arazu :gallente cruiser skill bonus: 20% bonus to remote sensor dampener optimal and fall-off and 5% bonus to remote sensor dampener effectiveness per levelrecon ships skill bonus: 20% bonus to warp disruptor range and -96% to -100% reduction in cloaking device cpu use per levelthis keeps the warp disrupter bonus on the recon ship skill where it needs to be and swaps the hybrid bonus  on a ship with a max of 3 turrets anyway!  for a hefty dampner range bonus.dampeners have 30km optimal, 60km falloff. this would change that to 60 and 120  for 180km + skills  on the specialist ships which seems fair to me, especially since it is in falloff for much of that distance.the lachesis could swap the turret damage bonus the same way and then the recon ship bonus to missiles could either stay as it is, or be changed to a hybrid bonus and increase the number of turret slots.the celestis would swap its 5% bonus to hybrid damage for a 10% range bonus - so not as good as the t2 ships but still pretty respectable.how does that sound?"
"damps need an increase to their range so they are effective against snipers and jammers trying to stay out of fighting range.the weakness of damps though is not the only problem with the arazu; it also suffers from identity crisis   as does the lachesis  . is it supposed to sit back and damp, or is it supposed to get in close and tackle? it gets bonuses to both, but they are mutually exclusive, so which does it go with?also why does the lachesis get another mid slot instead of a low slot? especially when its description says that it is a roden ship, which tend to be weak in ewar. the falcon and the rook both have the same number of mids and lows, why do the arazu and lachesis differ? also since gallente are primarily armor tankers, why does the combat recon get the lower number of lows? and why does the lachesis get a missile bonus when it clearly prefers to use guns, and only has one more slot for a launcher?let the combat recon focus on up close tackling and fighting, and the force recon focus on sitting at range and using ewar. switch the slot layouts so the lachesis can fit a better armor tank, and the arazu can fit more damps. let the lachesis go in with the scram, web, tank and guns. change that silly missile damage bonus to turret tracking or range bonus. heck, roden is supposed to be the big armor tanking corp, maybe make it an armor rep bonus.it used to be that the arazu's dual bonuses complimented each other for solo hunting; allowing them to tackle their prey while rendering them unable to fight back. the falcon can still do this, but the arazu no longer can since even 3 damps can not get most ships lock range less than the arazu's scram range. maybe instead of boosting the strength of individual damps, the stacking penalty should just be removed so that way 3 damps can't disable 3 ships, but 3 damps on one ship will disable it."
"yes please and not just the arazu but id love to have a reason to fly a keres"
"gallente recons could definitely use a boost. i'd prefer to see the t1 versions get a slight boost, and t2 a bigger boost. additionally, if the t2 versions lost the damage bonus for a range bonus, it might help counteract some of the limitations of damps on specialized ships, while keeping them at a reduced usefulness on other ships."
"some ewar that hinders the enemy from attacking your gallante ship that's fitted with the gallentian weapon system of blasters? you mean ecm drones?what are rsd's fore? i mean realy... i haven't figured out anything that it kan do that a ecm doesn't do better.."
"supported"
"definitely needs to be looked at. damps currently have very limited use, and only seem to be effective in the 30-70km range which very few fights take place at, in my experience."
"i have to agree. adressing the fuel definciencies of the ship without addressing it's ungodly cost and mediocre performance is not a way to fix this class of ship. give these ships the ability to use coc's.otherwise they're not worth the training time."
"a lot of good points. i especially like the references to the fact that the only real good hit-and-run ships now are nano's, which can't really engage against large sniper based fleets. i've found a way to fix the issues making it impossible to buff an sb style alpha-strike damage dealer without making an overpowered ship.black ops and a better hit-and-run damage dealer are begging for each other. absolutely would be married and in bed every time you log on to go kill things in systems under hostile control.here's how to do a close-range, high-alpha ship that is able to hit and run but doesn't become the new nano and doesn't have unnecessary tank/fleet/sniper roles.tactical strike t2 bc -- guerrilla adaptation of high damage bc hullsstats are probably in an overpowered state, but just focus on how active stealth can really change tanking behavior and provide escape capability without creating an overpowered nano-menace because of its high firepower."
"please turn the sin into a sentry drone specialist ship. i do not care about jump drive and the fule stuff, because that's what capitals are for.i just want a sentry drone specialised ship with long drone control range and sentry drone optimal bonus ...  on top of the regular domi bonuses ."
"that is pretty valid. i have been playing for a year and a half, and there are still skills i have not trained simply because i can't be bothered with playing the login timing game. i know that it is a frustration everyone has, no matter how experienced they are, because there are always skills that will be finished when it isn't convenient. i like that eve doesn't require skill-grinding, but i feel like the current skill system could use a good queue.i still think the amount of queue time allotted should be reflected in the character's attributes. the system that i proposed earlier would allow you to simply drag-and-drop this pile of skills into a menu, which should report to you about how long it will be before each skill transition, and even at what eve time it will happen if undisturbed. contingencies like training multiple levels of one skill or proper calculation of skills that come after learning skills in the queue can be addressed by ccp in the implementation of it all."
"ccp is sorely mistaken to believe this. switching skills does not encourage play. as stated by many people above me, just make a skill que 1 skill deep and have it disabled if the account expires."
"you are right, and another flaw in my kind of system would people who pay x isk to autotrain their character for 10 month then unsuscribe. both problems could be adressed  for the unsuscribing problem, like only finishing the training skill regardless of a skill queue when unsuscribing , but again, if you don't pay for this service, people will end skill queuing inspace while playing.don't forget, it's suposed to be a \"i'm offline for that long\" tool..."
"/signage"
"hell no. why not just let everyone fit a jump engine on anything they choose for free and be done with it?this is not the land of the heartstone, you plan ahead or you leg it!"
"this."
"i have said enough on other threads.you got my vote.blazing fire ceo interstellar operations incorporated corp web site services [service] killboard hosting [service] forum hosting [service] web site hosting [service] alliance creation"
"this, now."
"do your roids need capital sized equipment?i can see the manufacturing advertisements now."
"i don't think they can reasonably do this without losing subscriptions.to remove it they'd need a similar almost effortless means of acquiring the same data. at the same time for a tech angle it is most likely they'd still have to report the information to your computer so it can interact. if you code it such that it doesn't show someone will just make a program that lets them see it. so its probably not a wise investment for ccp to program it out."
"i have more faith in ccp reworking this problem without screwing over everyone than i do in this idea. simply removing local and hiking it all over to constellation doesn't work, especially in system with a lot of pos activity where parked and empty ships will confuse the scanners.the grand irony is the thought that removing local will increase pvp. it won't. it will decrease pvp for a few very simple psychological reasons. one, people already take the risk of being killed on sight in low-sec and no-sec. now that you've taken away their ability to watch for hostiles, they're less likely to go there in the first place if other profitable avenues exist, and there are. two, more people that do go there will fly cloak-capable ships, so they are capable of quickly getting out of a bad situation since they no longer have any way to see it coming, and they will run and cloak faster than before. three, more alts will be made for the purpose of keeping eyes on the gates so people know when something bad has entered system. this means a potential pvper has fewer and more paranoid targets, which translates into less pvp.i say we wait and see what ccp is planning before we start beating this dead horse anew."
"agree, though it needs some good looking at."
"mhm player chosse to be in local or leave?"
"agreed. local need some rebalancing."
"i like the thought that you have to enter a system, open your local scanner and scan to see if anybody is around a lot better, than seeing it right away...i favor change. a  remove names and pics from local b  introduce a local scanner option that shows people in the system after 30 seconds scan timemy2cent"
"and see, here we go again, and this is what the giagantic problem is with ccp. they look at local chat and brainstorm all the possibilities on how to feck it up even moar, tabs anyone? alt key anyone? this is so simple its ludicrous.1 add an automated scanner function that you can toggle. either the way it is now, or you hit the auto button and it constantly scans as many times as lag/server calls allow for2 entrance into local chat is delayed for 2 minutes, or unless typing into it. if you can't scan someone down in 2 minutes you fail3 if you wanna get crazy, and i mean crazy, have a low hp anchorable, within 25km from the gate, report to the pilot any gate fires, no distiniction between outgoing or incoming, and have that show up on the scanner module. and thats it. 1, 2 are perfectly fine, 3 is thrown in for the lulz. either way, what we probably will get is just a bunch of nonsense and overbloated changes to game mechanics that weren't really necessary, but since ccp loves to \"go big\" and lay an egg with the simplest changes or concepts... i can't wait"
"/signed"
"the data would not be available at any range, as it is currently. the range would be calculated server side before the information is made available to the client, so no bacon-like hack would work.oh, and the whole point of this is to remove the \"effortlessness\" with which this data is currently acquired."
"any radar system introduced to replace local would at the very least be permanently available and have a working iff  identification friend or foe  included in it or it won't be properly functional. then it also needs considerably extended range compared to current scanners. and i don't know if its even feasible with the current cloaks. who could ever go mine again in deep 0.0 if the risk exists there are 20 force recons waiting in the belts for anyone to show up? what would be needed i think at the very least is cloaking ships showing up as a blip on radar, but never good enough to pinpoint them. just a blip that basically says: recon within roughly 1 au of planet x. otherwise you will screw up most 0.0 activities outside of moonmining."
"very simple. local shows three different icons: 1. pilot s  with + standing in local 2. pilot s  with neutral standing in system 3. pilot s  with - standing in system. the end.this would nerf local as the best intel tool, but would keep it as a defensive tool.complete removal of local would be too much for 0.0.making the scanner too strong would nullify the point of local nerf.constellation local is too strong, because the majority of constellations have only a few system worth visiting. not to mention afk cloaking."
"i suspect that in addition it would also need to be able to discriminate between piloted and pilot-less ships at a minimum, and possibly possess such capability as detecting warp and cloak signatures. all at varying ranges.i kinda disagree on the \"considerably extended range compared to current scanners\" bit. in my opinion the long range stuff should be left for probe scanning.something like that."
"however this information is displayed within the new scanning system  in local, or some scanner display/tab , i hope it's not available at infinite range as it is currently."
"a small-freighter sized hauler would be nice. also i would like to see a covert ops industrial something not massive in cargo hold size but something that can be used to get past gate campers. also possiblity to add a drone bay to the industrials so they can atleast protect themselfs."
"i think if ccp did add this ship, it would be identical to a freighter in terms of fitting, but it would feature less space and better agility. eve is a multiplayer game and adding all these slots to let it have a tank, cloak, drones, etc. is just supporting the solo players. i have nothing wrong with people playing the game solo, but i think ccp wants to encourage teamwork and having to take some protection on a freighter move in high-sec space should be encouraged. i feel this small freighter is the orca, but should ccp release an additional ship, i think it would be capable of carrying one freight container, so i expect a cargo-hold of 120,000 m3, with no fitting slots, etc, and possibly a bonus to agility per level.edit: forgot that ccp mentioned a possible tractor beam bonus, so maybe 1 high slot for a tractor beam."
"i would like something smaller than my obelisk, but larger than my occator.the jump is from 38k m3 to 800k+ m3 cargo.something say in the 1-2 freight container range would be nice  120-240k m3 the use of cans and tractors would make it very nice for a mining operation.  1 ship replacing 3-6 other haulers "
"my idea of a cargo  small freighter call it flat out \"cargo ship\"requires indie v and a new class of skill for cargocargo: 75k to 100kspeed half-way between ity v and a freighter2 hi's 4 mids  obvious reasons and 1 or 2 lows  no huge boost from expanders mid-sized drone bay...right i said drone bayif it can't fight at least allow it some defenseor repair. liberty ships in ww2 at least had a small gun.gotta be able to tank a attack for at least a little while.."
"can't support the idea of t2 bpo from research if its a random slim chance thing.thats just a re-intoduction of the t2 lottery of old, you know the one where players were randomly selected from obscurity to become industrial tycoons by the random number generator on the servers.would be better if t2 bpo's were openly available on the market.afterall the corporations \"lai dai , ishukone\" etc that invented these ships/items should profit from them.then leave it to a players business accumen to create the tycoons rather than have them selected at random.invention should be for tech iii and named tech i and ii variants bpc's only.that should finally level the playing field."
"1% means i could get one every 27 hours for modules, on average. 25 days or so for a ship. 1 and a half months and invention will be dead with several thousands new t2 bpo. i know that 1% is only an example, but people doing only 1 job every so often will start screaming that they have no chance if it is much less, while any high number like 1% will kill invention very fast. i have already suggested a possible system that seem more balanced:1  it will require to lock a t1 bpo  not bpc, creating a bpo from a bpc is wrong from starter  wit the appropriate r&d agent  main field of the final t2 bpo  for several months, with missions requiring some serious effort  even simply gathering the needed t2 components [from market] for the research, no need for it to be a combat mission  and giving some serious increase in research.some minimum number of research missions should be necessary to complete the job to reduce alt farming. missions should be on the order of 1/week;2  the production of a t2 bpo at the end of the process should be guaranteed, but the agent used should be locked on working on the bpo only, so no datacore production, all the rp should go to the bpo. time to complete the research would be in several  10+  week at least for simple modules, to a year or more for the largest ships. 3  the meantime the development of new t2 for the game, buildable only from invention till the first \"new\" bpo come out of development, should continue. this will give a period while the new t2 items are buildable only by inventors, then the new t2 will become more common as bpo start to come out of research. this should keep inventing a rewarding profession with he profit from high priced new items. in my eyes this will work well, with inventors focusing on new items bpc getting a good return for several months before saturation by the new bpo holders, while the people focusing on bpo development will get a lower immediate return but with long term profits. there is only a drawback  that i see  in this idea: it require the development of several new modules to be introduced every 6 months or so and that could create a \"module escalation\" with new t2 module a1 being the same thing but better that old t2 module a. another option could be to produce t2 bpo with a similar system  always starting from a t1 bpo and requiring months of research  and allowing inventor to create bpc of t1 named and newly developed t2 named  even only tweaking a little the fitting/energy usage of the t2 modules will make them in demand ."
"1. increase delivery range2. increase explosion velocity  it needs to be effective against all targets, not just the bigger ones 3. allow sb's to carry multiple bomb launchers  2 4. slightly increase maximum damage5. remove the bug that causes bombs not to go off when the bomber cloaks.6. address build coststhat should about cover it."
"i just want to collide with them and see what their response will be!mwuhahahaha! floating flesh waiting to be flash-fried and served along long limb roe. what a tasty if rocky treat."
"hell yes, current action is just so limp-wristed!/signage"
"/agreed. as a player of a vherokoir alt, i think their role is very understated  wanderers who escaped the enslavement mostly, what next? "
"the amarr bloodline without any backstory is definitely the ni-kunni. that said, i would like to see more pf for all of the bloodlines, to differentiate them a bit. to a casual observer, the vherokior seem very similar to the thukker, the achura and the jin-mei may very well be related, and the ni-kunni are almost identical to the ammatar. what are their different cultures, beliefs, and conditions? what makes them different? even just the little things  like the ni-kunni being a formerly polygamist race  help to set them apart. the solution to this problem is simple: more little things!"
"you need background info to build characters. well, not really, but it makes it easier, at least for roleplayers."
"more tech ii bpos, with tech iii on the horizon maybe it's time to seed them openly with agents, as high end loot drops and on the open market?the 'problem' isn't tech ii bpos, it's static moon mineral deposits and the monopoly there.if anything me research on tech ii bpos should cut down a lot more on materials needed."
"ummm... the devs have spoken... they are happy with the system the way it is and aren't going to change it."
"they have spoken very quietly about it, too quietly, as if they are not even certain; during the fan fest, they made a statement that there are, and i quote: \"no immediate plans for the tech 2 bpos.\" it has been a while, and people do not want to believe that the devs actually said it.... this thread was meant to shut the whiners up, and as an additional benefit, a dev blog would be nice, that way i could just link it, every time someone whines about it. you see, saying to people developers said this at fan fest, and pointing their little noses to a dev blog where they can read it for themselves are two different things."
"this is not tech 2 bpo discussion denton.... it is either \"yes\" i want to hear what devs think, or \"no\" i do not want to hear what devs think about t2 bpo future."
"ccp have already answered the question. they have no plans for tech 2 bpos at this time but that may change in the future.of course that could have changed since they said that since it was a year ago so a thumbs up from me."
"that, dr aryadi, is the subtle point that many fail to glean for the whole affair. as i said, many on both sides of the issue would much rather prefer to stick their heads into the proverbial sand than actually ask a question and demand a definitive, next few years perhaps, answer."
"well, it'd be nice if ccp could finally put and end to the  speculation based  debate and make their plans for t2 bpos public.so this issue has my support."
"\"yes\" i want to hear what devs are thinking 'bau this"
"free **********"
"no thanks.dude may have uncovered some crap and  hopefully  bettered the game for it, but the way he went about it nearly nullified it. he tried to blackmail ccp with said info to get his own little private revenge.yeah... saint kug the hero. dude can roll another character just like all the others who've been banned for less."
"support for a response... however, i dislike the idea of a skill queue. if it happens, ccp owes me months of lost time."
"ummm, not hard at all really. if you can right click on a skill which is currently being trained and pause it, there is absolutely no reason why there can't be a mechanism that does the same when a subscription lapses. saying it can't be done is just copping out."
"i agree that t1 meta0 loot should be dropped from the tables, but leave the meta drops the way they are now. to compensate, increase the mission reward and early mission bonus by about 3-4x it's current amount  since it's already so comical .meta level items should not be able to be created, giving the mission-runners and ratters a critical niche in the market. the rare mineral difficulty could be easily modified by either making t1 loot easier to make  little or no zyd or mega  or incorporating inefficient ore asteroids in high-sec  aka flawed arkanor, which only gives 20% of the minerals normal arkanor gives ."
"i always fancied the idea of fewer trash drops in the can in favor of more salvage items. preferably keep it in the tech 1 market.for instance, make metal scraps worth a damn, perhaps usable as a super-m3-efficient material that can be used as a substitute for tech 1 materials in blueprint recipes. the more metal scraps you use, the fewer tech 1 minerals required.i don't like the idea of higher bounties or more lp."
"no. dont change the way it works, it is fine as it is.what gets me is why the hell does everything have to be hit with the nerf bat when it works well. bad enough they have removed all faction loot drops from ae and wc. lets screw something else up for all mission runners, devalue lp's and stop them from being able to produce usible items from the loot thats gathered. keep on with these wonderful ideas."
"attempt at provoking? i run around with a sign around my neck in empire that screams \"let's fight!\" not being suicidal i tend to turn away the people who bring back ships way out of my class. some of my favorites have been the \"a frigate versus a battlecruiser?\" \"a cruiser versus a battleship?\" \"a frigate versus a heavy assault?\" moments where it wasn't just a matter of being outskilled, but it was also a matter of being really, seriously, and totally out gunned in price. maybe i'm unique, but if i'm running around in my cruiser and i can flip a guy and he brings back his cruiser or heavy assault ship then oh yeah we're going to fight. if i'm in my heavy assault ship and he brings back his cruiser or battlecruiser, sure i'll take a stab at that.while i admit that a good number of my kills are outright \"ganks\", i'd also like to say that it's about the money for me. and given the choice of can flipping a guy 3 months old in his retriever or the 4 year old guy in a hulk with hammerhead ii's and ecm drones then i'm rolling up on the hulk in my rifter, jaguar, rupture, or stabber. maybe i don't have a good chance of success against the hulk and his hammerheads, but the payout for succeeding against him is much larger then the payout against the retriever. and i'd be willing to bet that given the choice between hunting targets and making a reasonable amount of isk per hour versus praying for that 1 big score to come floating into the gate that a lot of suicide gankers would rather be out there hunting the hulks, mackinaws, mining apocs, and brutixs.reducing random violence to a bare minimum is making things  effectively  completely safe! and i ask, why should empire be so safe? the only answer i get is the plaintive and unconvincing, \"think of the newbies!\" what newbies?! you mean the ones in lowsec that i fought last night? you mean the week old character i ran into in 0.0? you mean the one in the caracal that engaged me in 0.5 space because he wasn't aware that doing so would get him concorded  who, had i known he wanted a fight, i would have dropped a can gleefully! ? the only people that seem to want empire to be safe are the mining, industrial, and transportation alts of the 0.0 alliances. i say hang them, let them rot and die, let their 6 man alt corps be set on fire - i'm looking at you, \"lonestar mining\" with your 1 man, 8 character mining corporation. when i first asked someone about this game it was \"oh, everyone in eve is awful. they will gank you and steal money and do anything they can to win and kill you.\" now it's suddenly, \"we can't let people die in high security! it's an atrocity! stop it, stop it, stop it!\" i say either hug the carebear or cut him open and look for the magic fairy dust that sells for 100,000 isk in jita.the way i see it and to be hyperbolic:empire: 0.01% risk vs. 99.99% rewardlowsec: 99.99% risk vs. 0.01% reward0.00: 100% risk vs. 100% rewardthough, i would argue that lowsec is more risky then 0.00 because acts there lock you out of empire and there's the chance that the gate or station guns will rip you up - assuming a non-gun-tank build."
"this is also a very general statement that makes it into a half truth in and of itself. while the idea of insurance paying for a warship is far fetched people still generally want a semblance of realism in the game. there are pirates in real life and there are pirates in the game, imagine the problems ccp would have if they were trying to stop piracy...they can't stop macro mining and look how well that is going for the miners.a sense of reality is what brings an alternative version of reality into an enjoyable medium so straying to far from reality can alienate a player base entirely. in this case we have a veritable gothem city that is suddenly being overrun by crime, the police are not really effective, but the mention of batman sends people into frenzy. of course the carebears want to put a stop to it, they always will want it to turn every street into a freaking paradise that they can mine the crap out of and exploit pointlessly not knowing that if it wasnt for the madness in low sec and .0 they would not make a dime. the pirates always want access to high sec so they can kill all day long without consequences but they dont realize that even that gets boring or else they would still be gate ganking now wouldnt they? if it was all no sec then the population would be far less than half this population and the pirates would be getting there asses kicked in by the real wolves down in .0 that band together and eat **** like them alive. the no-secers dont really hate the carebears they just hate the fact that the npc corps harbor a huge logistical supply chain that helps the no-secers enemies. they realize that what goes on in high sec effects them greatly because of the logistical nightmare the npc corps have created."
"yeah so if you think youre the only person running around high sec with an orange name and a skull youre crazy. that doesnt mean you have a sign on your neck saying lets fight that says your security status is low and you have killed people, people in my carebear corp have the exact same thing because we have killed a lot of people. some more than others but always in defense of us though on occasions your going to take a security hit anyways. when i see a pirate starting a fight in high sec, its a trap about 95% of the time. there is very little one on one combat and if thats what you are looking for your going to be very unhappy in eve because ccp wants people to duke it out in groups, corps, and alliances and not alone. alone is less money, you know this and yet you play an mmo and expect the people trying to make money to cater to your single combat ideology that pretty much means you will only engage in what you feel as fair combat or combat in which you have an advantage. life isnt fair, sorry to burst your bubble and that is why there is high sec. the people that dont really want to play the way you do will confine themselves to high security. stop trying to force your play style on others. ccp will not allow the carebears to stop you from ratting yet you want to stop them from being carebears. your argument is that you should have a license to kill without interference and then run from concord. quit glorifying your own bs opinion of how the game should be and try to find a balance between your playstyle and other playstyles that is fair to all types of players and to ccp.just to get this started you need to understand i support pirates, i just want them on a leash just like everyone else. nothing you have said in this entire thread sounds like you want anything resembling a leash. you want to crack the whip. damn the torpedoes! full speed ahead!!!"
"your not unique, you want to fight and win, so does everyone else. what ****es you off if when you run around antagonizing players and they dont fight back. it never occurs to you that they know they cant win and they know it. your talking about risk/reward as if killing an afk mammoth hauling a billion isk worth of modules is barely worth the risk to you pirates. yet you get insurance payouts that either cover or come close to covering the cost of your loss while the afk pilot just lost a billion isk. the fact that the afk pilot is out far more than you is irrelevant. he is in high sec and its 99.99% secure so he deserved it right? why because as you pointed out low sec and no sec are to tough for you? you fail to realize the consequences for opening the flood gates. the only exodus in eve would be players leaving for your own personal satisfaction and it would be to late by the time you realized how stupid this idea really is and how its going to destroy the game. take the cards your dealt and be glad you can do what it is you like to do. just like everyone else in the game. the only people screwing up the game are the people your leaving untouched because your looking to fight not destroy logistics of .0 corps or else that would be your argument. not your preaching about the grandeur of single combat. the idea of eve is to have a ton of players paying subscriptions, not a bunch of pirates running around at will killing everyone because the facts are there are not many pirates. there are a hell of a lot of people in .0 and more than both combined hiding in high sec. your asking the devs to bow to the whines of the few. how likely is it they are going crap on their subscriber base and let the player pirates flush the toilet?"
"if you can kill any of the things you just listed inside empire space by yourself in a rifter, jaguar, rupture, or stabber before concord shows up i say either the pilot is a complete moron, afk, or your cheating your ass off. even a minimal tank against those ships you listed would take 30 seconds of pounding from the ships you listed. so when you get back to reality let me know. until then go to .0 and low sec where that stuff your talking about actually happens. however, again you point out the flaw that everyone else is pointing out. since you get an insurance pay out its worth your time. wouldnt be otherwise would it? to boot its not like this is you flying around to random locations starting fights because there is a high probability if you have to take 2 jumps to get an indy to salvage and loot the can you earned and the can you lost from concord your stuff and his/hers are already gone because they had a ship in system that could do the job already. your starting to try and blow smoke up everyones ass and it isnt going to work. no reducing random violence, not intentional violence. once again you target a specific point without quoting the proper information. i have no problem with pirates ganking afk pilots, macro miners, and .0 logistics hiding in npc corps. what i do have a problem with is it being so easy and so cheap that they kill empty ships, shuttles, and noobs because its entertaining. the risk reward there is out of whack because of insurance. if that noob got your insurance check you wouldnt kill him unless he was carrying something that if big if  he dropped would pay for the stuff you lost. thats what pirating is not riding the coat tails of the insurance system."
"i do to. whats your point? this isnt going to make all of eve your personal stomping ground though. sorry. yes think about the noobs, oh and while your at it think about the other <U+FFFD> of the population of eve that are in empire that dont want to worry about you getting ganked, getting gate camped, or getting interrupted mid mission with a map full of agro and having to fight a pirate. think of them. bury their play styles and you bury eve. has that ever dawned on you? sorry that you were so ill informed. lineage and lineage ii are supposedly very brutal. enjoy the new player areas there where the high level characters in the game like to sharpen their blades on your corpse. go do that for a while and see how much it makes sense then come back and tell us how eve should be your personal noob hunting grounds."
"this is cute but its not true. you see pirates or anyone else can come into high sec and blast whoever they want to as long as they have a reason. so no where is safe. you can sacrifice a raven for a shuttle if thats what you want to do. no where is safe. the problem is for you its not a rich enough hunting ground where you are at, it can never be rich enough, it cant be for anyone in the game thats why its a game. its a challenge, its entertaining, and last time i checked its still a game. the devs still need a paycheck and for that they need subscribers. the risk in high sec is very low and the reward in high sec is very low. the minerals suck, the rats suck, and missions are tedious unless your willing to spend billions tricking out a ship to blast threw them at record pace and then guess what, youre a target for pirates that are smart enough to scan you in your golem instead of ignoring you because there was a shuttle coming threw.the risk in low sec is very high and the reward is very low. low sec is like no mans land and its that way because of pvp. pvp folks will just shoot people and ask questions later which tends to mean more shooting and less questions. so until youre in an area you can cordon off as safe you dont relax and hang out you fly right threw. low sec is what people fly threw because you can casually decide to just kill the guy flying threw and there is very little to no consequences for that action.no sec is a different monster because it tends to be cordoned off and heavily patrolled. that doesnt mean it cant be attacked it just means when you go there as you said you have 5 minutes to get the job done. you have 30 seconds in empire and you are fighting for that so that you can run from concord when youre done but you wont take your 5 minutes to do the job in .0 and run from the alliance. you know why? it isnt about the excitement of running and getting away its about the stupidity of shooting a person in the face in the middle of a crowd on camera and getting a slap on the wrist and then getting a settlement paid to you for slapping you on the wrist for shooting that person. its that your not going to get away most the time in .0 and since its going to take more to get to that miner in .0 and kill him and your probably going to lose that if the alliance locks up the exits from .0 the risk reward was never intended to be high enough for 1/3 of the eve population to be pirates so its gonna be tough arkania and thats how it is for everyone else that plays the game right. those in the high sec hiding in the npc corps should get kicked out but dont try to justify turning the game into a pirate paradise by saying they hide there and its your job to kill them and then give examples of how your killing noobs and trying to find some honorable combatant to face you 1 on 1."
"oh and one last thing.this is about suicide ganking not pirating. so stop with the 1 on 1, lets have a fair fight, woe is me crap. your a pirate, act like a pirate and admit that the whole point is to kill the easiest target with the biggest payout. if it was about pvp there are things you can do besides being a pirate that are far easier."
"to be utterly blunt. 1  80% of the player base lives in hi-sec and never leaves because it offers them the extremely low level of pvp. reducing the security of hi-sec is about making the game more fun for 5% of the players  pirates  and costing ccp the subscription revenues of a large chunk of 80% of it's player base. 2  power- in the interaction between the suicider and the target, the target is powerless. after the loss of their ship, they typically have no effective means of revenge against the suicider. if they have the effective means, it usually does not net the same return. you have the option of hiring mercs - but that's throuwing good money after bad.3  4 hours of ratting to recover standing is not comparable with 100 hours spent mining. as ccp said, the risk/reward is unbalanced. i look forward to them fixing it. i suspect that the numbers they decide on will not even be close to leveling the playing field. even if they are moving in the right direction."
"i got suicide ganked in a transport ship with a full rack of cargo expanders in the low slots. at the time i was under the mistaken impressions that nobody attacked transport ships because of the higher resists and that nobody could see the ferrogel, zydrine and bpos in the dozen or so cans crammed into the hold  yes 1b+ of them .i have no complaints with the mechanic existing but i do have a couple of problems with the current implementation.suicide ganking is clearly an idiot tax that you should only have to pay once. my sad loss taught me to use blockade runners and freighters; fit anti-gank and limit the value of what i transport. however, popping hulks is not something that is easily avoided as there are no \"tough/fast\" mining ships to fall back on -- it is too difficult/impossible to save a hulk that has a couple of battle cruisers locked on and firing. for the \"this is an mmo, get some friends\" brigade -- it is either not profitable  half the income  or not practical  someone has to do a dull job endlessly for nothing .because gankers receive full insurance low value haulers are vulnerable -- newb12543 that gets his iteron iii full of pyerite blown up is probably not going to feel like laughing it off and breaking out the bantom and miner ii's for another dozen hour session of mindless rock smashing.  ok, nobody ganks pyerite but you get the point. again, because of full insurance, freighters are underused -- the value that you can cram into them reaches gank-target status way before the capacity is reached. it's worth ganking a freighter load of trit which is just about the cheapest cargo load going.as for ganking being a solution to 0.0 alt corp logistic disruption ... perhaps it is but let's not confuse ourselves here. the predominant goals of ganking are to cause grief and \"can i have ur stuff\", not logistic disruption.edit: re-read after posting and realised there are no solutions in this post. how about exponentially increasing premiums for regular ship losses. premiums decay over time back towards the current rates. pay out remain as is."
"hulks are the tough mining ships, and can be tanked to stop anything but the most dedicated group of gankers using nothing more than t2 equipment. but even that is irrelevent, because simply paying attention to local is more than sufficient to keep you safe 10 times out of 10. mining at maximum efficiency with no risk while afk should not be supported under any circumstances.lmao. a freighter full of trit isn't even close to worthwhile, even pyerite won't turn a profit. i realize the point here is to try and spread that \"woe is me\" feeling with regards to moving around empire, but try and be the least bit realistic."
"these numbers are pretty skewed. i know that ever since that economic report came out you carebears have been clinging on to it for dear life, trying to make the rest of us 'understand' that you are the majority. well, you're not. out of the 80% of people living in high sec, i'd wager at least 20% are pirates migrated from emptied low sec. another 20% are alts and hangers on of 0.0 alliances, and 20% are newbs or newish players looking to skill up before venturing out into more dangerous space.that leaves 20% as dedicated high sec carebears. you're just lunch, and that's how it should be. to give you any kind of right of decision of gameplay would be a major catastrophy for eve, as it would ruing what made this game great.what you people continuously fail to realise is that when you get suicided you have already made so many mistakes you have voided your right to any kind of payback or leniency. the trick is not to get suicided in the first place. there are lots of ways to do this. suicide ganking is actually a very well balanced game mechanic. people are just too stupid to figure out how to play the game.no, but 100 hours spent mining in 99% secure space will net you a whole lot more than 4 hour spent ratting in 0.0. had it been the other way around it would have been more balanced. ccp didn't say that. the csm did. according to the csm a couple of devs have said that they are going to look at it, but so far those devs have been really quiet about it. wrangler won't even take any responsability for what was said in the op."
"your assumption here is not what i heard directly out of ccp's mouth though when they elaborated on the numbers.the actual number is much, much higher than that, i'm affraid. in any mmo, the majority of the players will be casual players. the kind that only logs in a few hours a week for relaxation, that doesn't read the forums, and more often than not isn't even involved with any corp stuff.ccp has trouble reaching these people as they do not make themselves heard, but they are definately looking at their needs as well as the needs of the 0.0 alliance people and the lowsec pirates, as it should be.agreed with this to some extent, but that does not change the fact that suicide ganking is way too easy and too biased in the ganker's favor, and has no meaningful consequence for the criminal.i have no pity for afk haulers or other people moving their live's investment into something full of cargo expanders, and i don't think that ccp has any either. 100 hours ratting in 0.0 already yields more than 100 hours mining in high-sec, so the risk/reward balance is already there.ccp literally said that suicide ganking is too biased in the ganker's favor and they have some plans in the pipeline to change that. you can read that in the minutes and if you don't believe the minutes then i can confirm this as well."
"so, what did you hear? i've got to call bs on this. eve is not like other mmos. eve takes dedication. ccp should not balance their game with casual players in mind. they haven't done so thus far, and the game still does extremely well after five years. if they start balancing the game so that solo and/or casual gameplay becomes the norm, or at least much easier, the game will die, just like all the other games that made this transition.what measures are you csm people taking to make low sec a good option to venture to? what are you doing to give traditional piracy a boost? if you could solve these issues, by extension you would solve suicide ganking.disagreed on both counts. it's not biased in favor of the ganker because it's rediculously easy to avoid. it has meaningful consequences, as it takes pirates out of high sec. not all suicide gankers have 0.0 access, and those that do don't really like ratting.so, what are you doing to punish those further? if you nerf the one way we have to punish lazy or afk game play, you are in fact boosting it. not much more tbh. high sec is so ludicrously rewarding right now, there's no point for anyone to go to low sec, and soon to 0.0.where have they said this? to you? why don't they say it to the rest of us, and explain their reasoning? that would put a damper on this debate, trust me."
"so now you feel the world is threatening to remove your free lunch, so you actually have to pay for it, so you actually have to pick your targets a bit more carefully? you do understand that most people think that this just increases the risk a tad bit. it would not be the end of gangking.agreed. i also believe that people will continue to do these mistakes. it is in no way connected to any form of insurance. you will still profit from suicide ganking, but you will have to put some more effort in choosing your targets. is that what it is all really about, not amused that you will have to put effort in it? i seriously doubt that, not compared with the single high sec miner anyway."
"way to take something out of context, hero.effort is already there. a suicide ganker puts a whole lot more effort into something than a gankee. otherwise the gankee wouldn't be one.what?"
"was it? i'm not the one referring new players as lunch. i did however call them free lunch because that is how many perceive suicide ganking.well here is where we disagree then. shipping stuff around eve is so boring i get numb just thinking about it, so i acknowledge there is some effort in that. to gank these travellers do also require some planning and execution, i acknowledge this too, but i don't think it is that much more tolling than it is for the poor hauler  i use the word poor, since that is how i feel when i have to move stuff . it's a matter of perspective.thing is, if insurance were to be left out for concord targets, all that is required of the suicide gankers is to choose their targets a bit more carefully. it would effectively remove some of the small fish as potential targets, since they would no longer be worth it. the amount of extra effort you would to have to put in would not be much and this is probably why i have such a hard time understanding the view of the gankers, this is why they usually come across as whiners to me.to clarify, i seriously doubt that you, as a single pilot, make more money mining in empire, than you do ratting in 0.0"
"i wasn't either. if you read the quote in context with the post, i excluded new players from the 'lunch' part. i was referring to those players who do nothing but sit in high sec and run missions, never actually playing eve. they're just lunch, they should have very little going for them in way of game mechanics, and the game certainly shouldn't be balanced with them in mind. once again, you misunderstand what i and my kind are really saying. the 'effort' part we are speaking of is the effort the hauler puts into actually protecting himself from a gank. suicide ganking is the risk for high sec haulers. there is no other risk. most people  carebears  don't acknowledge this, and feel slighted when they get popped in their untanked t1 hauler carrying millions/billions. even the lonely high sec miner who feels so threatened by jihadswarm would do well to actually put some effort in. he can watch local. he can stay aligned. if he's in a hulk, he can tank up. as long as none of these people feel they should have to put any effort in, suicide ganking should not be touched. it should remain as a lesson to lazy and stupid people to pay attention.right now, as i said, the suicide ganker puts more effort into ganking someone than the gankee puts into defending himself. balanced.we where comparing ratting for 4 hours to mining for 100. not sure how that comparison started."
"ok, then replace 'new players' with 'dedicated high sec carebears'. my point still stands, i consider that group a free lunch for the suicide gankers with the current mechanics. but seriously \"but sit in high sec and run missions, never actually playing eve\". who are you to tell them what 'playing eve' is. they log in, they play eve. saying that it is anything else is just arrogant and narrow minded.i do not misunderstand. i disagree.i know there is 'little effort' to avoid ganking. that does not mean that hauling is 'effortless'. you cannot disregard a large part of a task and then call it effortless. because avoiding gankers is the small part, having the patience to get from a to b is the challenge.this is an entirely different question. and seriously, there is a humongous amount of effort to not be ganked by the jihad in comparison. you understand that they create a warp in point with a neutral covert ops, so you will not perceive it as a threat in local. staying aligned is very hard for a hulk when you try to move from stone to stone. to have a logistic rr you is not realistic since it might as well be ganked at the same time. to have an alt or freind in a bb to break the lock of a ganker is also futile, when they arrive with smartbombs.i'm not saying it is impossible, but it is a lot harder than to avoid suicide gankers. personally i feel that if they want to target miners in empire like that. then pay for it, that's what the wardec is for.no. there is this thing with risk vs reward. while you say that the risk is very small for a hauler who knows what he is doing, i'd say that they have a comparatively small reward attached to it. while the ganker, what does he lose when he nails that 2 billion hauler, really? today not much, to try and fail is close to free. sure you could be pushed in to ratting, eventually. but that is actually profitable and by choice.so if we remove insurance, gankers will leave the small fish  those who actually do not gain much in their hauling compared to the high price targets , they will still profit to the extreme when they nail a good target. still with basically the same consequences as before  sec hit . as one who regularly flies t2 ships, it's hard to grasp why you would oppose this as much as you do, when there still is so much money to be made from it, regardless of insurance.ok, lets leave it at that then. but do we agree that 0.0 ratting is more profitable than mining?"
"opening post, first line. these posts are part of the minutes and the official view of ccp.they explained part of their reasoning to me, but i don't think i should be quoting exactly what they said in our meetings.if you look at their planned fixes for these issues you can probably derrive how they came to the conclusion though."
"when asked about it, ccp wrangler said you wrote it and that ccp didn't. if it's the official view of ccp, why don't they say it is? also, the planned fixes listed in the op was also written by the csm as opposed to ccp, right?"
"my point was and still is that ccp shouldn't balance the game around them. i call the 'lunch' and claim they don't play the game because i view trying to play a multiplayer pvp game as a single player pve game as somewhat silly.it is effortless if you use the auto pilot. guess who gets ganked?stay aligned. watch local. tank your hulk. not that much effort imo.have you ever tried to wardec an npc corp? try it and tell me how it went.suicide gankers are the risk to high sec dwellers. they are the only risk to npc corp high sec dwellers. the risk the gankers face include: - loot not dropping- a smart hauler having tanked his ship- mistaking or miscalculating loot value  it's hard to calculate in 5 seconds - loot thieves- having to grind up sec status every three daysthere is also the fact that suicide gankers would be out of business if people just learned to fly smart. wanna get rid of suicide ganks? don't ask ccp. ask your fellow carebear what the hell he's doing when he's flying billions worth in a t1 ship. that's why there are suicide ganks. it's all your fault!"
"ki an,you seem to have immense hate for high sec carebears. i'm not even going to bother arguing the validity of your \"facts\". but you need to stop caring so much on how to \"punish\" those \"lazy carebears\". jesus! you sound like cartman talking about jews, hippies, and ginger kids in south park.it's just a game. you want everyone in eve to play your style. it's an mmo. eve caters to all types of players. high sec shouldn't be 100% safe but let it cater to those casual players that don't play your game or my game. there's plenty of room for pvp, ganking, griefing, and abuse in low sec and 0.0. let them be, for god's sake."
"but they don't and if you cannot see this, then it is you who is silly. they play the market, that's pvp. i'd even consider that a far bit more of pvp than suicide ganks, since they are involved 23/7 with their orders and contracts. still, agreed, the game should not be balanced with one group in mind. but that is true for suicide gankers too. now, most people consider that there is too little risk in ganking. so tell me, why should your group be exempt from balance? yes it is effortless with the auto pilot. however, the moment you press that button, the risk will skyrocket right? so there really is no effortless, risk free way to make money now, with or without insurances.not much effort, not very effective either though. again, you cannot stay aligned the entire time, local means squat if you are in a busy system in highsec, the tank will add few extra seconds against a smartbomb fitted bs and in all practicality not help at all. then again it is not impossible, but still a lot more effort than avoiding camps in your hauler.oh funny. but if you're hell bent on nailing a 300m hulk in a npc corp, be a man an pay that less-than-a-third-of-its-price in a suicide discoball bs. even without insurance, you come out on top. by far.i had to break here. would that single risk disappear if you would lose your insurance? no, people would still be ganked and carless afk all-eggs-in-one-basket pilots would still lose billions. looking at that list you don't seem to risk very much in isk. at all. exactly how much money do you lose when a op goes bad again? and more importantly, how much do you gain when it goes well. don't tell me you live a poor life as a ganker, because if you are, you are a poor ganker.and carebears will never cease to exist, you could probably gank noobs till the day the server shuts down. for every one that gets educated two new will subscribe."
"high sec mission runners are market pvpers? uhm... no? traders are market pvpers. the good traders factor in suicide ganks into their profit calculations. nerfing suicide ganking will nerf those who are smart and do take precautions. so what's the problem? seems balanced to me. no effort = high risk. effort = low risk.then add one more thing to the list: mine in a system which isn't busy. there's loads of them around. otherwise, using those precautions you'll escape 95% of all gank attempts.and if i want to nail a 30m hulk? there are more of those around after all. that's not why i'm against the removal of insurance. i'm against any nerf to suicide ganking because i feel it's a balanced system, a system that is very much needed with the current high sec climate. there are more reasons against the removal of insurance though. i've gone through a lot of them earlier in this thread. the most basic of the reasons is:it makes no sense to punish one profession by making a special rule for them. it makes no sense from an rp angle, and it makes no sense from a mechanics angle. i don't suicide gank.and in eve, time = isk. suicide ganking is an isk/h profession just like ratting or mining. in fact, while the potential pay out is huge, it's entirelly dependant on how stupid a person you encounter. if people fly smart, the isk/h drops so low it's not worth suiciding any more.keeps the meat on the table. i'm not unhappy about that."
"i wrote the minutes, that is correct.ccp verified the minutes and signed it off.minutes are what was officialy stated during our meetings. if it sais in the minutes \"ccp said x and ccp thinks y\", then it can't get any more official. the planned fixes to issues are what ccp has in the pipeline for these specific issues.why wrangler said that the csm has to explain why ccp feels a certain way about suicide ganking, i do not know, as ccp has literally stated that they believe that suicide ganking is currently too biased in the ganker's favor, but we are under an nda and i do not think we should be disclosing anything that has not been officially disclosed through the minutes and other official documents. i have sent him an email about this though."
"it's good that you're trying to clear this mess up. i would personally be a lot more satisfied if the named devs in the op would come speak to the community about why they feel the way they do. perhaps engage themselves in the debate, or at least, via a dev blog. could you ask them?"
"heh, i think that one of the reasons ccp founded the csm is that they do not have to engage in debates on these forums.i'll wait till there is a reply to the mail so i know what i can and cannot say, but i understand you care about this issue and would like some more details on how ccp arrived to their conclusion. a dev blog might be an interesting avenue though, as ccp is really involved with this and related issues, and it affects a lot of players. i will consider asking them that if this issue is not elaborated on in a way that satisfies the people here."
"thank you."
"um... yes! what do you think they do with their loot? why do you think missionrunners want killrights on those who salvage 'their' wrecks? anyone who touches the market do pvp and you do not have to be a true trader by profession to do so. so missonrunners do pvp, just not the way you are used to, or obviously familiar with.well the problem does not lie with the autopilot or the effort/effortlessness of haulers. it's the gangking were talking about, the one that currently has close to no financial consequences. that to me is low risk, high reward and that is my issue. do you have any experience of trying to avoid the jihad? if you want ice, its very hard to find a system that isn't busy in empire. to mine veldspar safely is not hard, but it's not very profitable either, unless your name is chribba and you have a veldnaught up in empire. a 30m hulk? don't see them much. but if you want to gank a cheap miner, use a brutix. you still come out on top.this is also why people think you are way off. it is not balanced since the profits are potentially monstrous and the financial risk or penalty is laughable. it is in far worse state considering risk vs reward than what you accuse the profession of the carebeares of.it is not a punishment to one profession, it is to bring them in line with others. the golden years are about to end. cherish the time you had instead of clinging to an imbalance. it does make sense in a rp angle, lots. what does not makes sense in a rp angle, is to pay insurance to what concord considers to be a criminal act. and why it would not make sense in a mechanical angle, you are very welcome to explain further.then do you at least have a clue what the financial loss is of a failed suicide op and the potential gain of a successful one? if yo do, please share so the rest of the readers can be enlightened. if you don't, then it is perhaps time to call it quits?most gankers i know do this as a part time profession. they do it when the opportunity arise, the rest of the time, they get their money elsewhere. it is very profitable. still even if this is only what you did with your time online, even if that meant that you had to put endless effort in it. it would still be without any real financial consequence and thus ridiculessly profitable. and again when players learn to fly smart, there will be new players that don't, a fact you seemed to be very happy with, so not really an argument in it self then."
"i tend to run around aggress to one or more players stealing from wrecks, can flipping, breaking into missions and looting, and generally being a nuisance with a target painted on me. the orange name and skull don't mean i'm unique, it just means i wandered out to lowsec one day and went, \"ugh. security hits suck until you're ready to live in lowsec which i'm not.\"when you see anyone starting a fight, it's a trap 95% of the time. people offering 1v1 duels if you just flip their cans outside of stations? a lone shuttle ducking into a lowsec system trying to acquire pursuers? a can with 7km3 sitting out in space? a gate to 0.0 with a frigate sitting at it?yeah, all traps.i see a lot of 1 v 1 fighting happening, actually. as for small group combat, that happens a lot too. humongous fleet fights that are ridiculous? those happen way more often then is healthy, really.let me ask you a question; exactly what fleet fight is a 4 million skill point character going to get involved in and where can i find it? i guess i could go blob with the militias; but that wrecks faction. i guess i could sign up with a lowsec or 0.0 combat corporation except most of the ones worth joining ask for 10 million skill point minimums. i guess i could grab my friends and go hunting; oh wait, did that.it's not single combat ideology, it's a desire to increase the number of potential targets and to get the fights away from the gates and stations and out in space where they belong.f-. this sentence makes no sense contextually.i'm proposing a level playing field. if the carebears want to stop me from ratting they are welcome to try. if i want to interfere with the carebears, i should be welcome to try.my argument is that \"i should be allowed to kill in high sec.\" that's it. i'm welcome to negotiation on the hoops i have to jump through to do so. militia warfare seems like a first step, but it is really only a half-step.you have to come to understand that there is no balance between playstyles in a game. you either support certain playstyles or you don't. balancing playstyles is impossible piracy is freedom. pure and simple. and i want to fly free."
"just going to add my voice here. these minutes were signed off by csm + ccp over the course of the week or so private discussion and assessment. everything that appears in the minutes can be safely assumed to be 100% acceptable to both councils and represent a fair representation of meeting outcomes in iceland. i was part of the discussion  obviously  and it was definitely the case that consensus existed between csm and ccp that suicide ganking in eve at the moment is currently unbalanced in favor of the gankers and there are not enough penalties/counter measures against this playstyle. i personally advocated player-led enforcement and some ideas like having suicide gankers denied all concord protection for 7-14 day periods after the gank but obviously there are some great complexities with automatic enforcement of things like that. the items we pretty much all  ccp and csm  agreed on where the equal sec loss penalties for all members of the gank squad  not just the final blow  and removing insurance payouts for victims of concord. trade-able killrights were also discussed as longer term solutions to this problem in the player remit. anyway, mainly posting to back up ank and make it crystal clear to the people posting on this thread that these minutes represent the collective word of csm+ccp on these discussions and both councils have signed off on the documentation appropriately to this effect."
"mission runners sell their loot to the highest active buy order, or they reprocess the loot to mineral and sell those/build ships and sell those. comparing that to market pvp is like selling home made apple juice and call yourself a conglomerate.again, it has financial consequences. the reward is, again, set by stupid people. all the solutions to suicide ganking are in the game already. just. fly. smart.no, but i have mined during wartimes. it was easy for me to find an empty system. it was even easier to stay aligned and be halfway to the station once the wts popped into the belt. mining veldspar is profitable enough for new players. if you want more profit you should have to go to low-sec or 0.0. you don't have to today. you just run missions.try getting a tanked hulk with a brutix. try it.my god... how many times... the profits for suicide ganking, potential or real, are all set by other people. the pilot of the hauler determines the reward of suicide ganking. the pilot of the hauler determines his own risk. it is a balanced system, but people are too thick to get it.it is a punishment to one profession. a profession that probably is one of the most balanced in eve as it does not rely on artificial limits, but rather on people and their stupidity or lack there-of. it doesn't make sense in an rp angle as insurance doesn't make sense in an rp angle. if we are to model insurance on rl insurance, then noone in eve would get any. it doesn't make sense in a mechanics angle as it will create more problems than it solves. it will not stop suicide ganking. it probably won't even limit it. it will cause problems for players who makes a mistake in high sec.continued..."
"fair enough. answer this one for me though, in regards to \"balanced\":one side, the gankee, always loses. even if the ship was empty, they are out iskies.the other side, the attacker, might lose. that \"loss\" is generally the fact that the expensive part he was after blew up.if you pvp'd all the time with a 100% guarenteed loss ratio, how much time would you spend pvping? especially since you would be pvping against people that you could not, under any circustances, engage first?that is what is out of kilter; the one getting attacked will always lose, the other may not make a profit. the one getting attacked has no option of fighting back.when you watch ravens suiciding empty or near empty haulers because they know that they will hit the jackpot at some point, the system is borked.i have no issue with suiciding as a tactic or profession, i do have an issue with the loss being completely one-sided and little recourse for the one attacked. agreed. doing something that summons concord should result in no insurance. doesn't matter if it is a suicide or a mission runner tagging a structure or cloaked mission invader. same same.the kill rights resulting from that destruction should be tradeable/sellable. doesn't matter if it is a suicide or that mission invader. i could easily see someone purposely invading missions in defenseless frigs, cloaking, getting smart bombed, and selling the resulting kill rights to you to gank someone's faction fitted marauder.fair is fair, no?"
"yes i do. the financial loss of a failed suicide gank depends on what the target was. it can be as low as a couple of million, or as high as a couple of hundred million. financial loss is not the only loss a suicide ganker faces, though, as explained in an earlier post. it has financial consequences and it doesn't have to be ridiculessly profitable. it is up to you!new players don't have anything worth suicide ganking them over, so this is all a strawman, much like most of your post."
"as i have been trying to tell that other guy, it just isn't how you describe it to be. when you get ganked then yes you will always lose. the part of the equation you guys keep ignoring is that fact that you can avoid getting ganked. it's easy to do, and i can't understand why more people don't. you arguing this is like me arguing that poses are over powered because i accidentally warped to a moon in low sec and got blasted. i could have avoided that moon. it's my fault entirelly. but, no, i'm gonna blame it on the pos.tradeable killrights is something i would love to see in the game. loss of insurance for invoking concord's wrath is something ccp would be very stupid to implement."
"i'm sure you know this is wrong. ccp is not setting up a task force to see if there's a problem. they've set up a task force because there is a problem and to tell us what they're going to do about it. the very first sentence of the op states ccp's view, i.e. \"today's suicide gank mechanics are too biased in the ganker's favor\". this is a completely accurate view. currently suicide ganking is done at will, it is done anywhere, it is done with very little impact to the suicider s  and often at great cost to the person being ganked.the short term goal stated in the op is a plan of action to increase the sec hit of suicide ganking and make sure everyone involved in the gank receives the hit. that's a plan to implement, not a plan to investigate. the only thing they're investigating in the short term goal is whether they should add on an additional sec hit penalty based upon the security status of the victim.your intentional misrepresentation of what has been clearly stated and your many posts on this thread indicate a desperation i find pleasant. i'm afraid i'm finding it difficult to resist gloating.windjammer"
"lack of a spine doesn't make me mad. it's more disheartening then anything. plus it represents a lost revenue opportunity. : don't make assumptions.1. i don't suicide gank - yet. though i've been more than tempted when i saw 10 hulks clustered nicely together in an icefield unaligned.2. an afk mammoth with a billion isk worth of mods gets what he deserves, in my opinion. if he has that much money then he's been playing the game long enough to know the risks.3. insurance payouts for getting concorded are stupid. to be fair, insurance in general is a fairly goofy game mechanic in my opinion.4. as a friend of mine pointed out; the game was designed so that the 1 billion mod hauling carebear should have hired some muscle to protect him on his 20 jump run. however, almost no one that can shoot things is going to do that because it's boring as heck. so, the solution implemented is \"infinitely strong and invulnerable police\" who act as repercussion agents because the designers assumed, like the designers of the death penalty, that this will stop crime. then everyone is surprised that not only does crime continue, but now because society has assumed this protection exists people have taken increasingly dumber and dumber chances rather than insuring their safety and security. so, now the populace clammers for even more protection so that they can sleep comfortably knowing that their auto-piloting industrial can go from one end of space to another unmolested. the fact that he was stupid is why he deserves it. nature favors the quick, the strong, and the smart. everyone else can die out.replace \"tough\" with the word \"boring and filled with characters with 50 times more money than me\" and you get a closer approximation to the truth. if my corp could join bob or iac or red swarm or hydra or insert 0.0 alliance here and make a meaningful contribution to the fighting; trust me we would be there. but who's going to recruit a bunch of 5 month old characters in cruisers?i'm willing to accept this.open up the npc corps and i will core me out some logistical alts on my list.there is granularity between 1v1 and 100v100. i find 5-10v5-10 immensely fun.the fact that empire has so many characters is telling. i think at some point it comes down to being honest to your vision and making it work instead of constantly patching."
"unfortunately it isn't easy anymore. it used to be  year or go ago  it was common wisdom that if you flew with less than xx amount in your cargo hold you were safe. only if they were ticked at you were you at risk. times have changed.i watched, this last weekend, 2 haulers go down with less than 10m in cargo. one i convoed to get the info, the other was a corpmate. my corpmate was stupid; he was afking. he is also less than 2 months old and that 10m in t1 missiles were all he had. no attempt was made to scan him, of course he could have just been blind and not seen it.he could have avoided. the other was destroyed in the undock port of jita 4,4. t1 hauler, construction parts. t1 fittings. total loss of ship and everything was about 10m. that ship wasn't even scanned, they targetted and blew it up. the \"only\" chance to avoid, quite simply, was to not go into a .9 security system?if this was happening only to those that were carrying a bunch of crap and being stupid i wouldn't care. it isn't. costs are low enough that they are willing to just shoot, knowing that if 1 in 20 actually has something they will still make a profit.that is why i think it is borked."
"ki an, since you are the most vocal counter-advocate in this thread, my comment is particulary addressed to you, but i would apply equally to anyone else.ccp has stated that suicide ganking is unbalanced.while you may disagree with that, the reality is that changes are coming.either you can continue to fight in vain to stop the inevitable, or you can redirect your efforts to suggesting that the changes that are made are reasonable.i am not a fan of suicide ganking as i tend to be on the recieving side more often than the ganking side, but even still, i am hestitant to see insurance payouts removed from gankers. there is a lot of potential fall out from such a drastic change.in all honesty, do you have a problem with changing the security status hit so that it impacts all attackers, or do you seriously believe that only the character laying the final blow should be fully penalized for the attack?if the full gank squad needed to grind back their standings instead of just the one laying the final blow, we might see people being more selective in their targets, and thus see a more reasonable balance.that is a simple change that could bring better balance, without making a drastic shift in game balance. but it will take some time to see how it affects actually gankers.i do not want to see ccp make drastic changes to this game mechanic. smaller incrimental changes should be made and tested on tq for a while to see how they actually affect the balance.if fixing security status hits does not establish acceptable balance, i would advocate teiring of security hits based on system security.altering the insurance payout system should be a measure of last resort, and if it is altered, i would suggest making the change so that it only applies to those who lose their ships to concord after participating in a successful kill, without affecting those who only engage in an act of agression."
"i was talking about provoking a fight through wreck thieving, can flipping, whatever."
"yes. and it's time for 3/4 of the population to evolve and stop hiding behind mom's skirt.hilariously so. but it's really hard to play a game where almost no one speaks a language. it's hard enough in eve trying to ransom a norwegian industrial. at least i can sort of understand what he's saying if i stare long enough and ask a friend. asian character sets explode my mind, sadly. : you act like i haven't been there.and i don't want to hunt newbs. i'd be happy having any character less than a month old being invulnerable to any sort of pvp outside of lowsec and 0.0."
"no, inexperienced missionrunners do that. experienced missionrunners create sell orders, hence they pvp on the market. i'd consider most runners that do lvl 4 missions to be experienced. or do you seriously believe that they are incapable of creating sell orders?there is close to no finacial consequence! jesus, you do not lose money in relation to what the hauler is carrying. it's a fixed amount! it does not matter if the hauler fly smart or stupid, you still get the same insurance pay out.try getting a tanked hulk for 30m. try it.yes, my god. no one complains about the reward. it is the risk  financial loss  that is the issue here. the loss that is the same regardless of what the hauler carried.seriously, you can get away with a 4 million loss for an unfitted bs. don't tell me that is not cheap."
"fair enough. i know my side has probably lost this fight, but i'll sure as hell be the first one to stick it in the face of the first carebear who comes crying to gd after having lost his raven to concord. i'll have my fun then. that's probably because you are able to think further than your own nose. it's a rare trait, but admirable.nope, no problem at all. i never actually looked hard at my security status log, and i thought it already was like this.agreed.that's much better than tiering it on security status of character. that would be a real unbalanced mechanic.yes, last resort, and your follow up isn't all bad either. first resort should be educating people on how to fly smart. that has obviously failed. second resort should be gettin tradeable killrights in the game. when the whines continue, the next step should be sticking a middle finger in the stupid people's faces. long after that ccp could perhaps take a look at the insurance thing."
"perfectly acceptable to me. personally i think that both will need to be done, but i can't see any reason not to start with on, then add the other if needed. tradeable killrights are more in the \"spirit\" of eve, hence start there. more pew pew is good for us carebear industrialists too"
"no, but i seriously still wouldn't call it market pvp. i'd call it market pvp lite, perhaps. my point is, nobody needs high sec mission runners. they don't contribute anything. all they do is lag out systems. suicide ganking is actually good for them. they get a place in the food chain. at the bottom, where they should be.yes that is true. what you can limit is the payout. you chose not to. your problem.sure:rcu ii, named diagnostics systemmedium shield booster ii, em hardener ii, invuln ii, named heat resistance amp3x modulated stripminer ii's.rigs: 2x core defence field extenders.i don't calculate with the rigs in mind, as they don't drop and don't factor in. the rest, except for the strip miners, should easily go for under 30m. a cheapo hulk like the ones flying around all over empire won't have t2 strips anyway. even if it did, this one could tank most gank attempts, unless the attempt is very dedicated. a jihad attempt would fail.it's not too cheap. everyone benefits from it. also, as i've explained to you i don't know how many times, the consequences for suicide gankers aren't mainly financial."
"whether you're rich or not is not something i'm interested in. what i am interested in is making you pay for the grief you love to cause. payment may be made in a combination of no insurance payout and in time it takes you to recover from the sec hit imposed upon you for your crime.how long should you have to play to recover from a suicide gank? i'm inclined to say weeks rather than days. how long will it take your victim to recover? currently the source of your pleasure is derived from imposing pain upon others that you in no way share.ohhhh.....i see.....the bulk of your victims are macroers. why didn't you say so? i've misjudged you so badly. can you ever forgive me? the actions and self advertising of \"jihad\"swarm are not aimed at macroers, they are aimed at any and all miners. your greatest pleasure comes from killing the ships of active players, not macroers and goonswarms comments in game and on the forums support that. your suggestion that you're helping the game is the same goonswarm drivel used to excuse every grief tactic that goonswarm engages in. \"we're killing you miners to get macroers and make eve better for you.\" \"we're can flipping and baiting noobs to teach them how to play eve.\" \"we're destroying pos's in 0.0 to make 0.0 safe for new players\".the one thing you say here that's accurate is \"there needs to be some kind of balance\". i and most others who play eve agree. however, current conditions are not balanced. don't worry, though, we're working to fix that.windjammer"
"another factor to concider would be to only drop the platinum insurance for gankers, but keep the basic 40% payout.also take a look at the structure hp and ship bonuses of various haulers. a speed bonus does nothing useful on a hauler under current game mechanics. changing those to either an agility or structure bonus would have a significant effect on suicide ganking."
"this is why this debate is so muddled. vindictive carebears who can't fend for themselves getting all over-zelous. you may treat this as some super duper victory, but trust me: when this is all over and done with, you'll still be dying to people that play smarter than you."
"no its not. i do agree that they need to get out of npc corps where they can only be suicide ganked but a lot of players are in player corps and are perfectly legitimate targets. what your asking for is complete un-contested access to high sec so you can roam around and force you idea of fun on everyone else.you even said if it destroys eve its fine with you. you lost all credibility with your argument there arkania. some people just want a higher sense of security than others and thats what high sec should be. the npc corps ruin this because it creates bastions of invulnerability that players hide in. even i have a problem with this but you have a problem with high sec not being your own personal hunting ground. that will simply never happen.so your young in the game and not enjoying it a whole lot because people don't fight you 23/7. too bad! a character that is a year old might not be able to fly anything that could fight you if all that character does is mine, manufacture, and research. there is absolutely nothing wrong with that as ccp and the community have worked very hard to make those professions as interesting and entertaining as possible. so when you stir up fights in high sec and they \"don't have a spine\" your assuming they have a gun to bring back to the fight when they might just have a stick. some people don't see any risk/reward in fighting the occasional pirate that flips a can so they just move and keep on working. so what!!! if you want to fight there are a ton of people to fight you just want to fight those who are ill prepared to do it. if they were interested in pvp they wouldn't be mining a rock or running a mission in high sec to begin with. you logic is flawed. all you care about is your way of playing the game regardless of the consequences.this thread is about suicide ganking, not opening up space as your personal playground. suicide ganking as ccp and csm pointed out current has very little risk associated with it and they are looking into ways to address it."
"your statistics are distorted and exaggerated to the point of being useless. pulling statistics out of the air or out of a less pleasant place sort of kills what little credibility you have left. trivial to avoid 99% of high sec suicide attacks? where could you possibly have gotten such a statistic? if you're talking about freighters and haulers, i might believe a high percentage could be avoided, but certainly not 99%. if you're talking about miners? you're flat out lying. there is no way for an active miner to avoid a solo high sec suicide gank. none. as part of \"jihad\"swarm you know this. i've seen hulks with shield hardeners and shield booster going flat out, unable to warp out because they're being bumped out of alignment by a cov op alt, taken down by about three salvos from a suicide ganker battlecruiser. and this in 0.7 space. that's a long way from zeroe precautions and that's a very long way from balanced.comparing high sec tactics to 0.0 sec tactics just makes you look foolish and inexperienced. i seriously doubt you are either. the rules of engagement in 0.0 and high sec are radically different and that means the tactics have to be radically different. this is to say nothing of the difficulty in scanning a high sec local channel for hostiles. there are more people in the high sec channel, anybody who isn't friend is assumed enemy in 0.0 and the process in high sec is rendered useless anyway when the hostile is using an out of corp alt. in a cloaked cov op ship.windjammer"
"it would be interesting to see and expand on the amount of risk overall the average player in high sec is taking just \"sucking on a rock\" like you mentioned. you want the gankers to have more risk, fine that works. but in the same line of thinking you are removing or minimizing the risk of the miners, industrialists or mission runners that is not equal to the reward already.there is a lot of banter about making sure that the risk equals the reward. but i do not see that equation used for all. i would like to see it balanced, but it has to be fair. everyone has agreed to the terms of play before they sub. they agree to it before they log in. its player beware. they can not expect to come into a game with established frame work and stomp their feet saying its morally wrong and unfair. if they do not like taking risks because the games is not conducive with their play style, don't you think they might have picked the wrong game to play? and this pertains to both carebear and pvp'r."
"this is why this debate is so muddled. frightened griefers wishing to maintain an imbalance in game mechanics which allow them a safe, pain free, profitable way to cause others grief. they will say anything, regardless of how false or absurd it is, to save themselves.assume you're smarter if you wish. it makes my job much easier. in the meantime cry me a river, build a bridge and get over it. windjammer"
"first, let me say that i do respect ki an, i have read his posts for a long time and do enjoy reading them when he actually responds. his responses are normally well thought out and well reasoned... that being said...ki, a question was asked you about the cost of a failed suicide gank, and you referred to that cost being based on the target, and that is wrong, the cost of a failed gank is based on what you are flying, your target stopped mattering when it got away  or if you succeeded in killing that ship and some 3rd party looted it before you could .the cost of a failed suicide gank is:cost = cost of ship + cost of insurance - insurance payoutthis is where the mechanics is messed up, this cost is known and minimal...if your attack succeeds, you get the cargo left over, so:profit = cost + lootif the cost value is minimal at best, all loot is profit... profit with little if any loss = unbalanced...if the insurance is removed, the cost of the ship becomes the cost and the profit becomes the loot - cost of the ship... you still stand to make a good profit when you take out and loot the wreck of that idiot with a few billion in an ity, but now it's costing you when you fail or the ity you attack is empty  or not carrying anything of sufficient value to cover the ship cost .removal of the insurance payout is not aimed and has never been aimed at stopping suicide ganks, it has been aimed at increasing the cost of failure... just like suicide ganking raises the cost of failure in transporting goods.by the same token, basing the security hit/bump on the security level of the system means the security cost of suicide ganks in .5 space would be a lot less then 1.0 space, but that it could not be recovered in 0.0 space, thus those who wish to fix a low  or very low  security level will be in low-sec space as they have the biggest rats that will give a bump to your security level."
"mining is theoretically infinite wealth generation over the long term with theoretically 0 risk. i regularly enter systems with 1 to 10 miners in npc corporations in the various mining ships sitting completely still with infinite shield tanks running and npc rats orbiting them. i've seen this from 0.8 to 0.5. all these people are doing is earning x amount of money per hour by essentially imposing a time debt. there is no risk here except in the occasional suicide.they are risking nothing and gaining everything. by partaking in this action they are able to fuel their pvp alts which get a reward for killing other people and taking their stuff and their risk is diluted to nothing due to the infinite wealth generation machine that funds the fighting. essentially, the existing of suicide ganking is at present the only mechanic to combat invulnerable logistics.yes, fine, 80% of character are in high sec empire. i'm willing to argue that at least 60% of those characters are involved in wealth generation and logistical support for a large portion of the 20% outside of empire.there is no balance to mining as it currently exists and there is no measurable risk to the miner's actions."
"not sure you actually got what i was talking about there. the cost is determined by your target. if you go for a freighter, using lots of bs, and fail, you'll be out more than if you go for a transport, using a couple of bs, or a t1 hauler using a bc."
"actually the cost of failure is the difference in the ship's cost versus the insurance payout.the value of the possible loot from the target vessel does not matter.if hurting the logistics of a corporation is the aim then even if the cargo is totally lost if your losses  between payout and cost of the ships  is greater than their losses it's a win."
"the problem is that cost is not determined by the target; cost is determined by one person flying with too much stuff and that warps the results for everyone. because of the low cost of the ship being used, you can easily afford to just assault ships without verifying if they are even carrying cargo. ever so often you will get an idiot which makes the whole thing worthwhile.we don't want to nessessarily alter the ability to gank those that are being stupid, we want to reduce the \"casual\" fall off because the attacker knows he will hit the jackpot eventually.if these alterations were implemented attackers would have to determine whether that ship was actually worth it rather than \"hauler with stuff, blow it. oh well, only some t1 ammo\". those that would make a living with this style of play would instead make sure that the ship was scanned and worth attacking. as it is too many ships are blown without verification because the attacker knows that 1 in 20 will carry enough to cover his losses. we want to make shift the odds so that he has to chose to attack that one that will.hope i am clear...."
"that's because we need to take into consideration the time invested; not just risk vs rewards. by mining in high sec, for example, you'll never make the same as say, someone running missions or trading in high sec. theoretically, i can earn billions of isk killing guristas frigs in a 1.0 system at virtually no risk, assuming it's done with a high-enough sp character. there isn't risk per se, but the time required is practically infininte.suicide ganking is inbalanced because it doesn't take much time, skill, or significant risk to cause relative damage, which can amount from nothing but a nuissance to game-breaking. the risk is always constant and minimal. the gains vary from nothing to extremely lucrative. suicide ganking definitely deserves a place in eve, but not in its current form. basically, there should be stiffer penalties to suicide ganking in high sec for ****s and giggles.there should also be tradebacks and high risk associated with professional and highly organized suicide ganks. they shouldn't be elminitated; just balanced. i think ccp and csm's are on the right track with this one."
"as i said, well reasoned... i went back and read the original question and you are right, it was asked about the op, so the target would matter in the size of the op, but the loss is the same, ship cost + insurance cost - insurance payout.if the insurance payout covers the cost of the ship and the insurance, even a failed gank op has no cost to the \"criminals\"by your own admission, suicide ganks are stupidity based, i auto-pilot an ity 3 with 500 million isk worth of stuff i am being stupid and should pay for that stupidity... a point i agree with you on... by the same token, a stupid ganker should also pay the price... your 30 bs op was not enough to kill the freighter, you should have brought 40... your bc did not pop my ity 3, should have done something different... your cost for stupidity is the cost to replace your ship just like my cost would be... a new cheap ship and more cargo to haul i guess...i am not advocating lessening my cost as the stupid hauler, i am an advocate for raising your cost as a stupid ganker  why i don't support basing the insurance pay out on a destroyed target ship, just on concord involvement "
"eve is not risk free. there is no place in eve that is absolutely safe. these things apply to all eve players including suicide gankers. if you signed up for something else, you signed up for the wrong game.a hulk is the toughest and largest t2 mining barge in all of eve. it was designed to endure the rigours of places as dangerous as 0.0 sec space. it can ignore high sec npc rats. so when such a vessel is mining in a high sec area with lot's of concord/police running around to help protect it, it is in a low risk situation. it is not in a no risk situation. it can still be suicide ganked as can any ship in eve. the rewards for a hulk mining in high sec are quite low compared to the rewards of low sec and 0.0.under current game mechanics a suicide ganker can attack and destroy a hulk in at least as high a sec as 0.7 using a single t1 battlecruiser. the t1 battlecruiser is much cheaper to purchase or build than the t2 hulk. the t1 battlecruiser can be insured for an insurance payout of a high percentage of its market value. the t2 hulk cannot. the successfull suicide ganker rebuilds his sec status in a day or two and his isk loss is non-existant. in fact he makes a profit from the whole thing. the hulk pilot may have to mine for weeks to rebuild his assets and that's assuming he's got a hulk to do it with.the above are some of the considerations used for determining the relative risk/reward situation for high sec miners and high sec suicide gankers. currently this represents an imbalance that is in the process of being corrected.when people sign on for eve, they sign on for a dynamic and evolving game. they sign on for a game that does not favor one mode of play or career path over another. they sign on for a game that has risk, but not overbalanced risk. they sign on for a complex, deep and involved game. they do not sign on for a game that allows minimally trained newbs to risk nothing in destroying the assets of well trained and experienced players.if suicide gankers wish to grief other players, they should be prepared to pay. they may pay by having to grind away at ratting to rebuild their sec status and they can pay with isk loss from their destroyed ships. right now, they can regain sec status too quickly in a day or two. right now they are for all practical purposes not paying in isk at all. quite the opposite.regards,windjammer"
"i couldn't agree more. i would have to change your numbers though arkania because you yourself and most others including the carebears admit that a large part of the people worth ganking or needing to be ganked are hiding in npc corps and those do not by any means account for 60% of the population of high sec. if they do then well hell i wan't them kicked out just as bad as you do and made targets for everyone.you have to admit mining for 100 hours to get the same reward as ratting for 4 hours and ganking the miner/hauler is risk vs reward. one of those you can do in a night, the other takes a month for anyone less than a hardcore gamer. i just want them to be targets legally one way or another to resolve the conflict."
"i guess from reading the posts from the carebear players that experience little or no risk in their game play demanding others to have their risk increased and rewards minimized. it just seems one sided. especially when they say \"its too easy for you, it should be harder.\" as they type out these threads while logged in afk mining, running missions or hauling watching tv."
"i'll entertain bait. i play almost exclusively in low sec and 0.0, travelling very rarely to high sec and only to shop. care in formulating a more accurate generalization?more obvious troll bait. grow up some. perhaps we can then have a conversation we both enjoy."
"it is ccp's decision as to whether the rules and the risks meet their vision of the game. statements indicate that ccp doesn't believe so. don't blame the carebears if people use game mechanics in ways other than intended and result in changes. if ccp wanted it this way, it would stay this way."
"about the npc corporations, what is different about them being in such a corp compared to being in a similar sized alliance? stop and consider, how many of those complaining about them would wardec them if tomorrow they were all put in a wardecable alliance?  all of one empire's npc corps in the same alliance not many i think, considering the numbers that would enjoy coming to visit  all those 's would suddenly have targets that wouldn't cost them sec hits thing is they can't file wardecs back, so their own tactics can be used against them  have a couple folks in battleships pay attention to who the suicides are and return the favor... after all neither will be fitting a tank since they are designed to be lost to concord "
"windjammer,do you know how long it takes to grind up sec status? say if your were just a -5? and also do you know the mechanic for raising sec status only occurs once every 15 minutes and it only pertains to the \"rat\" you are killing atm. and do you also know that the jumping into other systems to reset the timer no longer works?  i bring that up because there is some misconception that it is still in play  so no it does not take a day or two, and it would take some one that is pretty hard core and not the casual gamer to make any significant progress at all.and this would also assume that they have access to 0.0 resources. but not all of us have that luxury to graze with the 0.0 sheep.i have suicide ganked yes. and the target was a macro farmer. i do not do it often. but once in a great while. and very selective. i was out quite a bit of cash but it was fun. it took a long, long, long time to grind up -7 on the sec hit scale. actually an entire month. i am a casual gamer. i do not have access to 0.0."
"very true. can't believe this argument hasn't been put forth before. yes, there needs to be a stupidity-tax on suicide gankers. let's see if ccp gets this right."
"it was an observation. if it hit a nerve. sorry. it was not bait it was a comment. like everyone else that has can make comments to what they observe. if i keep it clean and not abusive its fair game. if you do not like my comments and it is contrary to your views. tough. deal with it."
"yes the only sucide ganks i have done sofar was against macro-miners - and it takes quite a while to get sec-status up again.i am against sucide-ganking  griefing-version  but this is eve and its good that way.only thing that should be changed it that there should be no insurance pay out for ships killed by concord !!!!!greetings belmarduk"
"observation? you say i face little to no risk from what i do. when did you make this \"observation\"? when did you \"observe\" me afk mine or afk mission? when have you observed me watching tv while hauling? i've wasted enough time with your trolls already."
"where in pvp does it state that you have to fire a gun? it seems to me that you read in a lot of things in the abbreviation of player versus player. as long as someone, through an action, have an effect on another player, it is pvp. not market pvp light. and missionrunners lag out systems. have you ever seen a fleet in 0.0? they lag out node, they can force the server on its knees. they make jita look like turbo, so don't give me that crap. it's just simple bs and no one benefits from you spreading it. and where does it say that we have a food chain? you really make this up as you go right?what? i cannot limit the insurance payout, you know, the issue at hand.you just forgot to mention the tiny sum of the hulk itself there though. so no. if you want to gank a hulk, you bring a bs. if you want to gank a miner with 30m of ship, then you bring a brutix. then you started to jabber about 30m hulks and i tried to insinuate that there is no such thing as a 30m hulk, my bad, i should have said it straight out.for the record, you do know that a hulk is a t2 mining barge right? as in, it gets a useless insurance payout. so if you gank one with a bs, you will get out ahead, by far.you try so hard to miss the point. 4m for a battle ship is dirt cheap. no way you can spin that in another direction. if you seriously believe otherwise, then you do not have a clue.now, how on earth do everyone benefit from it? i sure do not gain anything from it in 0.0 or in an alliance with functioning logistics and industry. there might be a slight increase of prices in jita, but that is hardly a benefit.as many times you have explained that the concequences for gankers aren't mainly finacial, you have missed entirely that there is no financial repercussions at all. that is what we want, some financial downside in addition to the current consequences. then it's fine. the ganker can keep on ganking, but has to choose its targets more wisely. but those who can adapt will still reap insanely amounts of cash."
"hey i was referring to the posts. not to the decision of what ccp has in mind. whatever ccp does is what they do and we have the decision to continue to adapt to the new vision or find something else to do. its pretty simple.so basically are you telling me no matter what i say it does not matter because my views are contrary to what you think? get real."
"no, i'd still call it market pvp lite. a trader does so much more than just put up sell orders. a good trader is worthy of respect for his abilities. a mission runner deserves no such respect for reading a mission running guide online.for the record, i have seen fleets in 0.0. i flew with your alliance when we pushed iac and -a- out of 49-u. where you there then?the issue at hand has been so blurred by now it's hard to keep a straight discussion. no you cannot limit insurance payout. you can, however, limit the payout for the suicide ganker by using one of the methods outlined before.guess we misunderstood each other. i was talking about potential loot drop, you know, the part that interests the suicide ganker. i haven't heard of any cases where the ship itself drops as loot.ok, 4 mil for a bs is dirt cheap. however, i'd like to know where you find bs for 4 mil. i can't seem to find them anywhere.well, i thought you liked cheap ships. btw, aren't you in empire? nah, that was a mean stab at a good alliance. anyway, the real reason here seems to be that prices are too low. let's have ccp do something about that instead, huh?there are financial repercussions. if you fail a gank you're not winding up in the green."
"if you go back and look, the 30m isk hulk was a type-o, it was quoting a post where the price was 300m...they are currently running about 100m or so."
"no, i was saying quit blaming the situation on someone whos' fault it isn't. you blame the carebears for whining, but it is really ccp that is probably going to alter the rules. they don't alter the rules just because someone is whining, they alter them to fit their vision.besides, i see an awful lot of \"pvpers\" whining about things too. seems to me not many highsec carebears worry about nos domis, nano-phoons, afk cloakers, npc corps, etc. they aren't whining in here that it isn't fair that they are safe or that losing insurance would eliminate their play style, either. the players you are focusing your anger at are pretty low on the scale of current whine threads"
"easy dude, you are overreacting and being a little defensive. and are you dismissing my views and calling me a troll because i do not agree with you? well i am sorry you feel that way. i hope things work out for you out of game."
"you may or may not have noticed, but it was the whining that made the csm look into it, and it was the csm who got ccp to look into it. why should high sec carebears worry about those things? the only thing a high sec carebear has to worry about is suicide gankers, and they are about to be nerfed. it's a grand day to be an empire carebear. a grand day that will end in tears and blood once the suicide ganking picks up again.someone talked about a false sense of security making people put billions in their cargo. what do you think nerfing suicide ganking will do to that false sense of security? i'm not clair voyant, but i think i can read the future on this one. people will put billions in their cargo, get popped and then whine to ccp that \"suicide ganking is out of control\"."
"i underlined and bolden the funny parts for you."
"just saying that it isn't just hte carebears that do the whining on the forums.again, the problem isn't that people will do it; those individuals deserve to get what they do. the problem is that the costs of failure for the attackers is low enough that they have stopped even bothering to scan ship before attacking. haulers, a lot of them, are getting destroyed because they \"might\" have something not because they do. when the profit margins are good enough that those doing the attacking do not need to even scan the ship before hitting it, it is out of whack.that is the only thing i would like altered; the ability for a lightly loaded hauler not worth anything to be able to fly semi-safe in empire. you used to be able to, in today's eve you can't. i would like to make the loss for the idiots who afterwards say \"whoops, only t1 ammo, damn\" actually mean something.there are many options on the table, two of them discussed even between us in this thread. i have no problem in trying either or both in any order and perfectly willing to implement one and wait to see if anything else is needed. that is mostly reasonable, no?"
"fair enough, i missed that in context."
"i would still like to know just how common this sort of attacks are. this is the sort of stupid suicide gankers that really should be made to suffer. i have never encountered any of them, unless the gank was just for lulz. those fail most of the time."
"this goes hand in hand with \"don't fly what you can't buy\". if you can't do the time, don't do the crime.as it happens i do know how long it takes to raise sec status. i know the ratting mechanic occurs every 15 minutes and that it pertains solely to the rat being killed. this is why people intent upon raising their sec status make sure they kill only high level rats once every 15 minutes and use timers to ensure this. even casual gamers have access to 0.0 when they have only a fraction of the eve experience you lay claim to.i was not, however, aware of the change in the mechanism for resetting the 15 minute timer. i find this interesting and would appreciate a link to the relevant thread or information. however, even if this is the case, regaining sec status is still too fast under current conditions and still remains an issue of a couple of days rather than weeks.with regards to your own suicide ganking activity: i'm pleased that you chose your victim carefully and apparently took care to ensure he was a macroer. we could use more suicide ganking like that. however, given the present mechanics, i don't understand how you could be \"out quite a bit of cash\". worst case scenario would be a target in 0.8 to 1.0 sec space. this would almost certainly require a battleship to do the damage necessary inside the space of time it would take for concord to respond to an upper high sec criminal act. while battleships are more expensive than battlecruisers, its still not in the realm of a lot of cash, especially when the t1 battleship has been max insured.....and again, especially not for someone of your long experience in the game.in your situation you could start a macro killing service. did you know that there are actually people who have isk given to them for killing macroers? additionally, it should be no problem for you to gain access to 0.0 even if you are a casual player, you're a player who has been in the game a long time.in the case of a new player who wishes to suicide gank? fine, let him gank the more experienced player who's mining.......and then let him pay. is he prepared for the price? no. no more than another new player is prepared to pay the price of losing a ship. but that's his choice. he made it and he can pay for it. it is unreasonable to ask others to pay for him instead.windjammer"
"i had one try to pop my occ thinking it was an interon i only dropped me to 30% shields, though would have popped the t1s with far less of a tank. i see a lot around jita that target as soon as you decloak and begin to align for the next jump gate.. only reason i got shot at was the overview lagged and had to use the right click to do warp to zero for the next gatebut considering his buddy looted his wreck and the insurance payout i doubt he lost any isk on the attack."
"i would like numbers too. my personal observations are that they are frequent enough i fly a blockade runner with istabs instead of expanders to buy pos fuel even though i could use a t1 hauler and get it in one trip instead of 4. am i paranoid? of course, i've lived for 1.5 years in a npc corp in empire 1 jump from jita. i see it happening too often to be considered \"normal\" in what is the hub of trade in empire. most of those i've talked to when its happened have been clueless as to why and have claimed to not have been carrying anything expensive.all i'm asking for is to weed out the idiots. the professionals that stalk their prey, chose their targets wisely and hit at the right time should be rewarded with success unless their prey was well prepared and wary. the fotm needs to go and is harmful for the game overall."
"this is not why suicide ganking is being balanced. people who put billions in their cargohold, go to jita, get popped and then whine about it are not taken seriously. they have not been taken seriously in the past and they will not be taken seriously in the future by either the player base, ccp or a third party. you're exagerating an extrapolation to an absurd conclusion.additionally, the upcoming changes will not change the frequency with which ships carrying billions in their cargoholds are suicide ganked. anyone who believes otherwise needs to be suicide ganked with billions in their cargohold. if for no other reason than social darwinism.windjammer"
"then i can count on you people mocking the hell out of the first carebear who gets suicided after the nerf? i mean, none of this \"now this is completely messed up and need to be nerfed\" crap. i mean, you'll roast that bear for his stupidity, right?"
"i mock people for whining about their missions being salvaged right now. i have little sympathy for older players getting blown up after reclaiming \"their\" ore right now.and if someone flies a 1.7 billion hauler  like the idiot in general today  by me i would be tempted to suicide it too if i knew about it. i have never suicided someone, but if the reason is good enough...."
"dear ccp,i've been pirating for 5 months. i would like ccp to calculate how much money the average mining character makes in that time and reimburse me for any disparity. i feel that my risk versus reward is significantly and improperly skewed towards risk while the miner's risk versus reward is skewed towards reward given the following1  finding a target to can flip can take hours.2  on average, a can flipped target will retreat from any fight leaving behind a can valued at roughly 500,000 to 1,000,000 isk. assuming this is the only person i've can flipped in the past 4 hours, this represents 250,000 isk per hour; significantly less reward than can be earned for no risk and the same amount of time spent mining.3  on the rare occasion that a target will fight me, i might lose a ship plus fittings or i will destroy them and acquire mods that are worth on average 1 million to 5 million isk. as losing a ship results in a net loss after insurance because i lose fittings and ammunition this impacts my isk per hour. further, stolen mods rarely significantly impact my isk per hour.as mining acquires more isk per unit of time then my actions and my actions by necessity require the risking of ships, mods, and pods whereas mining requires no risk on the aggregate of ships, mods, or pods then i feel it is unfair for ccp to reward miners in such a matter. i feel that if the risk vs. reward for mining and trading were fairly calculated then i deserve a significant amount of money from ccp for participating in a playstyle which has significantly more risk for significantly less reward.and i've been shipped and podded in high sec by an angry can flip target; does that make me a victim of suicide ganking? :  so suicide ganking is like trading then?i agree. there should be stiffer penalties for mining and trading as well to balance their unfair risk vs. reward advantage."
"yep, i will be there asking for his name to be changed to \"tutupid tuplay\"..."
"if somebody puts billions in his t1 hauler and afk autopilots? i roast them now! i'll certainly do it in the future, particularly if they advertise the deed by whining about it. geez. that's right up there with the guy that asks in local for a cyno so he can move his carrier and then whines about some stranger throwing a cyno that lands him in the middle of a bunch of guys who shoot the crud out of him.so yeah...you can count upon me to mock them if they do something like i've described above. i can't speak for others in this thread, but you can rely upon me.windjammer"
"where's your mining alt? : i think it's a fair question. people are demanding that suicide ganking be made harder since it represents nearly the only real threat to empire logistics. empire wars don't count since you get a 24 hour warning which gives you plenty of time to duck into npc corporations, dock up, transfer material to alts, etc. without the capriciousness of suicide ganking there is no real threat to empire logistics.and while they demand that suicide ganking be made more risky in one breath, they defend the ever-so-loveable miners with their infinite reward vs. 0 risk. my feeling is that either the risk gets turned up on people hiding behind npc corporations or suicide ganking should remain as is to bring balance to the risk vs. reward.you have a pve option that is infinite reward with almost no risk and you have a pvp option that is infinite reward with almost no risk. i see this as balanced."
"i suicide ganked them because they were clearing out all the belts in the system. 5 of them grouped together. all the other residents did not what to do. so we petitioned. nothing. but no one wanted to step up and take the hit. too much risk they claimed. so i did. killed all five in a .7 system. being a one char player  because i like to focus on the development and i am at the age now where multi-tasking is a hurdle. i was no longer welcome there by concord. could not collect the loot. so i spent a month ratting and ducking pirates so i can get my arse back to high sec. yes i had plenty of cash. it is just the fact that i lost a wee bit more than what ever one is claiming the actual loss is. windjammer, my time in game has little weight or any at all. my views are my views. i have been through a few changes here and there and adapted. but now we have the opportunity to make our view's heard, and what i want to make sure is that it is a truly a balanced fix. before ccp would just make changes and then try to fix it much later and we had to live with it. i want a balanced fix that will work for everyone and not just a narrow focus on a few knot-heads, and not thinking whom else's play style it is effecting."
"wait. your saying that crime doesn't pay? it never has. in all of history, crime has returned a lower net return over working's ones ass off once the risk level has been factored in. there is a reason that lower gdp is associated with corruption. corrupt states are not effective or efficient. low sec... fits the model. compare the value of the goods traded in low sec stations  not the relative prices, the total value  with the value of the goods in the hgh-sec trade hubs. jita probably has more assets than all of low-sec. unfortunately, mining for 23 hours takes dedication and lacks the rush of adrenaline. you get traded \"adrenaline reward\" for isk. your choice, your play style."
"it takes no-doz, jolt cola and a cushy chair."
"this proposal was not passed for escalation by the csm. while i feel it fulfilled the requirements set out by ccp in their call for proposals, there was much misinterpretation of the system outlined here and some existing 0.0 power blocks felt it would threaten their security  although that was neither the intention nor the likely result .also please note that all numerical values, such as # of ships to capture a stargate, capture times, percentages, etc, can be adjusted for balance purposes. the intent is simply to outline a mechanic that can be tweaked as needed.specific proposal for 0.0 sovereignty revampin response to the ccp post here: linkagerequesting concrete proposals to achieve the followingthe long-term plan for 0.0 warfare is to have multiple layers of goals and objectives instead of all fighting occurring over stations. this would allow small groups to have an impact on the game, instead of needing hundreds of ships to have influence in 0.0.this proposal intends to specifically and concretely outline improvements to 0.0 warfare and sovereignty to meet that stated goal. this proposal intends to hit the following targets for end result attacker-defender dynamics:1  infrastructure affords defender advantage - investing in your territory increases your ability to defend it successfully.2  time zone warfare doesn't break the system - i.e. peak and off-peak times for an alliance are mitigated by a need for long term effort to attack/defend territory.3  dispersion of forces yields better results than concentrated forces - include a mechanic that contains incentives to fight simultaneous battles on different grids or even different systems, to reduce the need/incentive for \"blobbing\" and encourage small scale pvp.4  objectives for small subcapital gangs - include mechanics allowing small gang \"harassment\" attacks on territory, providing incentive for defenders to maintain control of their space.part 1: the 3 layersto achieve these goals we will divide the elements of territory warfare into 3 layers, each of which will support different styles of gameplay and provide for different benefits and vulnerabilities for the territory-holding alliance. the three layers of territory warfare under this model are player controlled stations, tactical arrays and stargate capture.1. player owned stations - the traditional construction, maintenance and sieging of poses that currently exists.2. tactical arrays - the anchoring of territory warfare structures outside of gravity wells  i.e. not at a pos  that affords a defender advantage. these arrays govern the familiar cynojammer, jump bridge array, cyno field generator and system scanner effects, as well as new capabilities.to function, a tactical array requires 3 operable units in system. a maximum of 5 units of a given type may be anchored. thus it is an attackers goal to eliminate 3 of the 5 units in a system in order to bring down the effect. in this way attackers and defenders have the option to split their forces and attack multiple units simultaneously. these units are balanced for fleet combat in terms of their hit points, and have no capacity for automated defenses  they require defender vessels to come to their aid against attack.3. stargate capture - stargate capture is a new mechanic that will affect benefits across systems as well as entire constellations. stargate control is the \"first line of defense\" in this model of territory warfare, representing the defenders capacity to field small gangs in response to attacks. defenders secure stargates to signify protection of their borders, and attackers disrupt the defender's control to signify porous or poorly defended borders."
"stargate capture is inspired by the proposal made by ccp nozh here: linkagea stargate under this model would have three states: neutral, captured and contested. once a defender lays claim to a neutral stargate it enters a 24 hour claiming period  remaining neutral but unable to be claimed or contested  and then becomes captured, and begins contributing to the stargate network of the defender. an attacker laying a counter-claim to a captured stargate immediately puts it into a 24 hour contested state. if a defender fails to re-claim a contested stargate during that 24 hours the stargate reverts to neutral status and can be captured by someone else. certain defender benefits will be awarded based on the sum of captured stargates only, while others will count both captured and contested stargates to determine if the defender is awarded the advantage.stargate capture would be balanced to allow multiple small gangs operating in different systems to contest/capture multiple stargates in parallel faster than a single large gang contesting/capturing the same number of stargates in a linear fashion. a minimum gang size to contest/capture a stargate would make this a small gang activity rather than a solo activity.in the short term attackers harass defenders by contesting gates and forcing the defender to patrol their space to maintain a network of captured stargates. also, contesting or neutralizing local in-system stargates is a pre-requisite to attacking tactical arrays and sieging poses. in the long term the ownership of stargates organically reflects the presence and activity of an alliance in the area. part 2: dividing goals/benefitshaving outlined the basics of the three layers of territory warfare, we can take the current sovereignty benefits and divide them amongst these three layers  as well as add some new tools and benefits for defenders .the following are the benefits currently gained through sovereignty and the three categories they will be divided into under this proposal  please note that sovereignty levels no longer apply to the top and middle layers under this model, only the bottom layer uses the \"sovereignty levels\" measure for determining outpost upgrades etc "
"stargate capture benefits: your alliance is visually represented on the starmap as being the sovereign of the solar system. gained by having 100% of the stargates in the system in a claimed  captured or contested  state. you can only deploy outposts in solarsystems where you have captured all stargates in the system. twinned jump bridge tactical structures can be activated, as long as 51% of the stargates in both the origin and destination systems are claimed  captured or contested . all starbase control towers are invulnerable and can not be locked. gained by having 51% of the stargates in the constellation in the captured state. your starbases get a 25% bonus to their fuel efficiency. gained by having 51% of the stargates in the constellation in a claimed  captured or contested  state. [edit: this fuel efficiency bonus could be increased dramatically should the work required to maintain a stargate network prove sufficient to allow a large reduction in the work needed to maintain a pos network] a further fuel usage reduction, 30% instead of the usual 25% for all alliance owned control towers in the same constellation. gained by having 100% of the stargates in the system in the captured state, in addition to having the constellation-wide requirement above. new: a captured stargate enables the owner to check the activation logs to see who has used the gate recently and what ship they were in. new: your tactical array units are invulnerable and cannot be locked. gained by having 100% of the stargates in the system in the captured or contested state.tactical arrays:note: tactical array units are structures anchored at least 1 au from a gravity well or another tactical array unit of the same type. 3 tactical array units of a given type must be online in-system to grant the effect. a maximum of 5 tactical array units of a given type may be anchored in a system by an alliance.the types of tactical arrays available are: scanner arrays  functioning as a system scanner does now. cynosural field jammer arrays prevent the activation of cynosural fields, just as the current cynojammer does. cynosural field generator arrays allow the activation of a cynosural field generator anchored at a pos.  i.e. the actual cyno appears at the pos but the array units are anchored in safe spots and are subject to attack  jump bridge beacon arrays allow the activation of a twinned jump bridge anchored at a pos.  i.e. the actual jump bridge is anchored at a pos but the beacon array units must be online for it to work, and are anchored at safe spots and subject to attack  new: network security array - this array collects usage data from captured stargates in the same system and uploads it to the alliance database. alliance members may access the network security node to see data from all network security arrays owned by the alliance, allowing them to monitor incursions into their territory.player owned stations: outposts and conquerable stations held by your alliance are invulnerable. enabled by fulfilling the same requirements as conventional sovereignty. your alliance is able to anchor capital shipyard production facilities, thus enabling the construction of capital ships and super capital ships. enabled by fulfilling the same requirements as conventional sovereignty. all outposts within the constellation can receive further upgrades. for more information, refer to the outpost upgrades article.part 3: details of stargate capturestargate capture is balanced to be executed by small gangs of subcapital ships. as time is a factor in the capture and volume of captures is critical to success, it is advantageous to use the minimum number of ships needed to claim a gate and maximize the number of simultaneously active gangs."
"a sample model of stargate capturestargate states:1  neutral - this is the default state.2  claimed  captured  - when a neutral gate is taken by an alliance it goes to this state.3  claimed  contested  - a captured gate changes to this state when another alliance attacks the gate. if the defending alliance returns and reclaims the gate during the contested period, it returns to captured. if the defending alliance fails to return and reclaim the gate before the contested period ends, the gate becomes neutral.minimum ships required to capture/contest/reclaim a stargate: 10times to capture a neutral stargate/contest a captured stargate10 battleships: 10 minutes10 cruisers/battlecruisers: 20 minutes10 frigates/destroyers: 30 minutestimes for a defender to reclaim a contested stargate10 battleships: 5 minutes10 cruisers/battlecruisers: 10 minutes10 frigates/destroyers: 15 minutesto initiate a capture/contest/reclaiming the ships must be within 5km of the stargate. once the action has begun the claiming ships must remain within 30km of the stargate or be discounted from the claiming totals. additional ships may join the claiming action, but if the total claiming ships drops below 10 the action is canceled and reset.in addition, performing a claiming action requires the disabling of on board warp drives for 60 second cycles for the duration of the action. if the action is canceled or the claiming ship moves out of range, the current cycle must complete before warp drives come back online. thus, ships attempting to claim stargates are vulnerable to ambush.conclusion: how it plays outwith a system such as this in place, we would see a conflict between two alliances go like this:an attacker invading a defender's territory will first deploy multiple small gangs across the entirety of a defender's space to destabilize their grip on the area. attackers will contest the claimed gates of the defender, forcing the defender to respond by fielding a similar force of small gangs to counter the actions of the attacker. with both sides fielding many small gangs, the opportunities for small gang pvp increase. if the attacker can gain dominance in the small gang pvp arena and suppress a defender's capacity to respond to contested gates, the attacker will eventually disrupt the invulnerability of tactical arrays and pos within defender systems.then the attacker can take the fight to the tactical arrays, fielding multiple fleets within a system to disable enough units to counter the effect. once cynojammers are down, capital ships can be deployed in the conventional manner.a defenders power is based on their ability to first protect their territory from distributed small incursions, and then to prevent those incursions from snowballing into fleet attacks on their tactical arrays in specific systems. an attacker must strip away each layer to weaken the heart of their enemys empire.it is also now possible for one alliance to control the stargates and/or tactical structures of a system/constellation/region while another alliance controls the majority of poses in the same area  opening up the possibility of implementing a treaty system so a military alliance could share the their stargate control fuel efficiency bonuses with an industrial alliance in exchange for access to the industrial alliances poses.essentially this proposal seeks to turn the linear pos-only territory warfare model into a comprehensive three-prong territory control model consisting of stargate capture, tactical arrays deployment/destruction and pos construction/sieging. each element would be designed to be best attacked/defended by a different force configuration: capital ships for pos siege/defense, battleship fleets for tactical array warfare and multiple small gangs for stargate control.thanks for reading, questions comments and concerns appreciated."
"agreed"
"what about halving a dual layer pos shield. the lesser one is active at fewer than 10 hostiles on grid and uses lesser power. the better one activates in response to capitals or more than 10 of any hostile on grid but consumes a large amount of fuel. this should be balanced but overall favor 9-10 very nicely fitted ships to take pos into a reinforced state or maybe only allow them to take pos shields to 50% before the larger kicks in at its 50%. the basic premise though is that you have a few lesser ships that will possibly be melted by pos guns offer some damage to pos.i like your ideas too. i am just saying this also puts a usefulness for sub-caps into the equation as well."
"nice idea, well presented. thumbs up from me.this would also combine with my idea which had ways to harass and weaken pos  but not destroy them  using smaller gangs."
"that sounds fun, but i would also like to see the actual pos system modified as well. rawr."
"very good stuff."
"i like this."
"i'm not sure about all the specific details, but detail work is essentially ccp's domain, not the csm's. i do like this in principle though."
"on second thought, why even bother... just put them on the market sold by npcs... you already have a pretty hefty drain on player resources by supplying the datacores, if t2 production picks up the pace, there will be an even higher demand for them... having players spend rps to get these bpo/bpcs would be kind of counter-productive."
"supported. as is being seen irl with the price of gas, once something gets too pricey alternatives will be sought, or ones that were previously not cost effective put into use. so should it be with eve."
"was it at all touched upon in the meet?"
"i would like to formally apologize  sp?  to sf and jade for my direct attack on them.that being said, most of the points i could have made without being a jerk. now that i have cooled down i see that. i still stand by most of my points on alliances and fw though.i don't speak for my corp only for myself and my behavior on these forums."
"if fw had been introduced at the same time as the alliance mechanics this would not have been such a big problem.but allowing corporations to make themselves ineligible to take part in fw by committing themselves to an alliance without knowing that they were doing so really sucks."
"no insurance for concord kills. just non-sensical."
"with the introduction of heat and module hp, one can easily see the ui damage receivership implementation.the targetting of subsystems with current weaponary doesn't appear to make much sense. missiles, guns, they have sig radii that don't make sense compared to modules. nor does sub system targetting make any sense at all to a ship with it's shields up  shield tanking .it would make more sense for an entirely new weapon type that circumvents those issues.off the top of my head, most common sst weapon would be sst frigate mounted single module targetting. sst frigates have built in ship module scanner.originally i was thinking \"af role\", but that would just cloud the core issue.balancing so that people fly sst rather than damage/ewar? well, that's not really my problem is it? supported."
"i like a lot of the ideas listed above, but the pvp ones kinda concern me. the varying agent types could incorporate this, without a lot of flak from the playerbase.let's have new agent types, or redefine the roles that the agents are in. here are some of the new mission types per agent division i would like to see:accounting/finance - lightweight mix of recons 1 and 3 - get through these agents to talk to a lost agent or deliver a package.advisory - pvp training where you have to lock down a ship or stealth through a mission.astrosurveying/archives - scan a few static moons  deadspace only  while fighting small waves of weak enemies.distribution/marketing - delivering product or crates to other stations.intelligence/surveillance - analyze a certain structure or ship format, while encountering enemies.internal security/security - clear the path for a convoy, which will show up later, giving fast mission runners an advantage.legal/administration - deliver a subpoena to a ship after defeating his entourage.manufacturing/production - make or buy x number of a certain product based off a blueprint.mining - same as standard mining missions.personnel/public relations - deliver troops or rescue them from pirate attack  defeat the enemies before they destroy our assets .r&d - acquire this item from a deadspace mission.this setup could also use the standard mission sets, but add a bit of personality and spice to the mission runners' routines."
"yes, indeed a lot of bugs and lag. and even before the changes of gtc eve was the most expensive mmo. but now, will be simply unplayable for many players.and the second thing! why the players from europe have to pay more than the rest of the world?????? i mean now the 1 euro is aprox. 1.6 dollars. so as an european i have to pay 23.92 dollars per month, while the rest of the world is paying 14.95. even considering that because i am from europe i have to pay vat to, but with vat is 17.79. so why i am paying an extra 6.1 dollars a month for the same product? buying time codes over the internet was an options  not always a good one, but it was , but now i am forced to pay for 2 months in advance if i want to play eve. and in this conditions, what if you, ccp, will make a patch and with that patch i will consider that eve is not worth playing any more with this patch, but i already pay for 2 months in advance. or with a new expansion a horrific bug will be in game  never happened until now because eve is \"premium\"   and i will be so angry that i will want to quite eve. or i will just get bored at a moment. then what? i will be forced to play for almost 2 months or simply lose my money? this is not a good perspective, for me at least.so from my point of view you have 2 choices. make the same price for europe and for the rest of the world, or make available the 30 days gtc."
"so.. you say premium product.. well that much lag and all these bugs makes it very special! even premium! on a serious note: ccp, you've tried to fix what's not broken and you broke it. because people already are canceling their accounts and ccp is losing their customers and income. bringing back 30d or 90d or reducing 60d gtcs price probably would fix it.afterall, not being able to enjoy main feature of eve  pvp  because of the lag, node crashes  you name it  doesn't make this game premium, seriously."
"same here - thats a very bad move - many people might close second accounts or alltogether their account because of this..."
"speed is not broken, just alot of fail pvpers in this thread"
"agreeing with the problem."
"imo mwd should be removed from game but the ships that are supposed to be fast should get a bonus for ab use"
"nerf speed"
"first point is valid, the 13km web sphere of death is pretty much on and off.second point fails. it is not the only viable option in small gang pvp. in fact it is quite the opposite, you see a lot of bs/bc/c ships roaming around all the time. let's give a real, actual ingame example, shall we? is the majority of ships used in factional warfare nano? i think notnano ships certainly do not obsolete anything. many people have success against nano-gangs and kill them left, right, and center.first you talk about webs, then signature radius, then missile speed, then stacking penalties of nanoships. pick one issue, and go wtih that. don't just say \"lol, i think teh gamesors is broken, let's review everything!@!guys, right?\""
"what speed issue?"
"well written post.one interesting idea would be to make web range dependant on sig radius.for example base web range could be 10km for a ship with a 100m sig radius. i.e. web range in km =  target sig radius in meters  / 10so an intie with no mwd would only be webbed at 2km. an mwd intie would be webbed at 10km. an mwd cruiser at 20km or more. suddenly sig radius is a real penalty to going fast.the rapier bonus could also be adjusted to being a +4km per level of recon skill - so with recon 5 you get a minimum of 21km  so it is still possible to web an intie at all! , hyena could have half that bonus so with eaf 5 they get a minimum of 11km webbing."
"fully supported.webs and neuts make small ships for which primary and main tank should be speed  frigs, dessies and their t2 versions sad.also, how radial speed is calculated is borked. we only have transversal that is absolute to the grid.to visualize the problem, i'll borrow example someone else used to illustrate the problem in other thread. two hummwies, each with a turreted machine gun. one is standing still, other is circling around the first one. mg on stationary jeep has to track the circling one all the time, and has to match angular velocity with it. mg on the jeep circling the stationary jeep can be pointed normally to its tangential velocity, straight toward the stationary target, and doesn't have to track at all.in eve, we only have transversal being same for both ships."
"yes please. the profanity filter on the forums is about the most worthless piece of crap i've ever seen  hmm, will it let me say that? .i seem to recall that people were talking about a storeline event, and when using the name of one of the main npcs involved  perhaps it was quoting the initial post made by the isd controlled npc, or it might even have been in the isd post itself , part of it would be censored.this really needs to be made into something we can turn off."
"agreed. **** political correctness.well, maybe one can censor \"political correctness\" because it is one of the worst concepts ever, including hypocrisy, ass-kissing, self-denial and euphemisation all in one?political correctness is the coffin nail of democracy and free speech.no to political correctness."
"alrighty. for those people who are getting hung up on the statement about minmatar recons and eas possibly needing a balance pass as a result of reducing the speed of nano setups, i've clarified the original post by bolding, underlining, and italicizing the word \"may\". it was never my intention to say that it would definitely be needed, just something that should be taken into consideration when considering the extended effects of reducing speed."
"yeah that's the second time you've said that, and you're right, why not add an explosion velocity bonus to a ship to help counter this 'problem'? i mean it wouldn't fix it completely but it sure the hell would help even the odds.explosion velocity bonus to stealth bombers would be nice, but any missile ship would do..."
"polycarbon to nanofiber level narf would fix a lot of things."
"nerfing nanos would obsolete recons/hacs, c/d?infact, battleship gangs would be counter for pretty much everything...."
"stealth bombers are much too fragiles to be a viable counter to nanos. if it were the case, hyenas would have solved the issue by now.i agree with everything wrayeth stated. i, too, would like to do small-scale pvp with heavy ships, but it's not possible anymore, far too many nano-ships running rampant.yes, i know i could do small-scale pvp if i nanoed myself, but i refuse to be part of the problem. i will never step so low as to use something i know is out of whack.back to the topic. it's about time mwd get a nerf, imho. it's too much of a must-have module, with virtually no drawback since cap boosters became a must-have, too.question to the pro-nano crowd: assume that you want to take down an enemy nano-fleet of 30-50 ships. they have scouts, they'll know if you bring a fleet that vastly outnumber them, they'll know if you bring a high number of huginns-rapiers in your gang.here's the question: how do you decisively defeat them? and avoid the \"bring a full nano-gang yourself\" argument, please. if you can't answer that question, you just admitted that there's little point even trying to kill them, and so nano are hurting small-scale pvp. a lot.with a non-nano opponent you could use the lightest ships of your gang to run them down, and hold them for your heavy units to kill. but now, you can't really run them down since they're all as fast than your light units."
"hello, what does tcf do when you bring bses to lj-? you will wait 30min+ until tcf has enough battleships to engage. once they have that they will jump capitals in just for the fun. every 0.0 half-decent alliance does this, 0.0 alliances don't blob because they are afraid of nanos, they blob because they can and like to minimize losses. nanos making it impossible to roam with heavy ships? no. capitals, battleships, killboards, local did that before anyone even flew a nanophoon.non-nano 30-50 ship gang won't engage your superior gang either, but how do you suggest you decisively defeat them? bs gangs can very easily pick fights/avoid being blobbed, hardly anything new here. besides, no nanogang will engage decent bs/heavy ship gang, because they know the nanos will just fail against a decent gang."
"/signage"
"signed."
"as anyone who's tried to scan for people in a system with pos in it can testify the litter of unoccupied ships at the pos makes it a nightmare.i suggest an overview option to remove unoccupied ships - which would then also translate on to directional scans.  or even just an option in the directional - or something in the ship name to tell us if its unoccupied or not ."
"it must be annoying to someone other than me?"
"aye."
"its funny, i liked where the discussion was heading in about 90% of the csm minutes... until i got to this priority list. i propose that this function of the csm be changed. it should be where ccp reveals its own internal priority list. then ccp and the csm could modify it together, based on the issues that where raised in the meeting.priority should be based on time required to implement the feature, balanced with playerbase interest. something with a high enough interest from the playerbase could be put at the top even if it will take a long time to implement. but, the top of the list shouldn't only be things that will take 2 years to create. this is where the balance should come in with ccp being truthful in relating time to implement  and firm rejecting unrealistic priority lists  in their discussions with the csm. ***this current priority list doesnt have much to do with playerbase support or time required for completion. and thats where it fails.... hard."
"/signedthe astarte is the command ship i spend the most time in, but it's pretty easy to see that there really is a problem with the nighthawk."
"i'm not gonna disagree, the drake honestly is a crappy ship [noobs love it tho], and yes fitting heavy assault launchers is a lost cause on every caldari ship pretty much.. sleipnir is light years ahead of the nighthawk for sure, and it fits a command module with ease, tanks better too. gooo caldari!!!!!!!! :\"
"jim raynor, bobby chilli, and others -you guys have shown support for this thread, so give it a thumbs up! apparently, some of the csms think a thread needs lots of thumbs up in order to be worthy of notice."
"shame we didn't get a csm meeting last sunday due to people's holidays and what not but fingers crossed this coming sunday happens and we get this issue sorted properly at last. i got all your additional notes silence and added the majority of the data straight into the issues document for the rest of the csm to read up prior to the meeting.*also as an aside for the nice \"alts\" who chose to spam me with accusations that i was only pushing the nh powergrid issue to buff the flavor of command ships i fly fyi jade flies all four races of command ship with pretty much equal skill levels  all racial cruiser, battlecruiser inputs at 5 . and all weapons systems at tech2 function with good specialization. yes i do actually own a nighthawk and at the moment its parked in a ratting system rigged for pve  which is all its actually good for . i also own an absolution that i fleet pvp in, a claymore that is uber for roving gangs, and an astarte that i fly for ganks and bait and trap. its certainly the case that the nighthawk is very poor for pvp usage and doesn't hold a candle to the capabilities of the sleipnir - but rather than joining the horrid cult of \"nerf this / nerf that\" aimed at other races lets just for once consider dealing with a problem ship not by nerfing the opposition but by correcting the specific issue and getting the nh the grid it needs for a pvp fit please. /point of order."
"thumbs down, the game needs npc sold isk exits.i would support the idea of something useful being harvested from planets and stars though, just not the proposal of being fully self reliant without need of isk exiting the system."
"it does open a can of worms, and needs to be thought about carefully.in some respects, it is nice to have some things still be dependant upon npc supply -- not everything, but some. the empires are the big civilized and developed powers, 0.0 is the fronteer, the colonies, even if some of the alliances are huge powers, they're still partially dependant upon the empires. which is perhaps as it should be.still, it is quite an interesting idea, and because i think it deserves at least consideration if not implimentation, it gets my support.the rp possibilities of player alliances using slaves in huge numbers to run those factories is reason enough alone. that could be fun."
"the raw materials are obviously in existance since the products exists, but they are clearly not in moons or belts so planets would be the logical place to look fore them yesthis would make planets something more then just a \"it looks good and it 'should' exist in space\" thing"
"i'd like this as well. what ccp perhaps could do to reduce some load on the database is make certain things default to certain choices. assets is an example. if the last time i checked assets, i was in 'all items' tab, it will open it again the next time. how about making it always open in the 'search' tab, or the 'solar system' tab instead, choices that make less of an automatic strain on the db. same with markets, it should never just open on 'browse' tab, but always on 'search' or 'quickbar'. i'd think that ccp could reduce strain on the db that way."
"i<U+FFFD>m afraid this has also been discussed and the answer was no it would create too much load on the database.to be honest i would rather have the current system   i am a very tidy person and only put things into station-containers i dont need from a remote location  than have more lag..."
"this seams like a dreadfully obvious exploit that is consistently looked over. the only real way to catch people employing this tactic is to use a bubble. this thread here:"
"giving support to my own topic.anyways, my main point is that this while you cannot tell whether someone intentionally disconnects, you can tell whether it is reasonable that they disconnected or they are abusing the system. if a freighter jumps into a system with 20 guys on the other side, is it likely that he suddenly had internet problems and doesn't log back on, but a strange noob alt is hanging around that exact spot where the freighter logged off? a penalty or marker for disconnects  the ones where you get scrambled by pcs  can help identify and punish the people who abuse the log off mechanics and ruin the gameplay for countless others.lastly, the exploit is as follows:player a is doing whateverplayer a sees player b on his overviewplayer a hits ctr-qplayer b scrambles player a and has one minute to kill said ship before it vanishes with no 15 min pvp timer. sometimes the ship disappears much quicker than one minute. and sometimes player b is not fast enough and player a warps off free as a bird.my solution  which i stole from the devs but was never put into the game  is simple: if you log off, you sit in space for 15 seconds. if someone scrambles you, then you stay in space for the 15 minute aggro timer  just like if you logged during combat . if not, then you warp off and disappear from scanner per normal."
"people log off at gates when they see enemy on scanner. people log off in ratting systems when a neutral, red enters system.etc.add a flag for ctrl+q or esc+quit, a. if the connection is lost and there is a flag set true, let them sit there for a little while before initiating align+warp. why would you quit the game in the middle of the action?b. if the connection is lost and there is a flag set false, let them warp.disconnecting from the game is an action performed less than most other actions in the game, plus i believe connecting and disconnecting is handled by their own server s . adding a true/false flag to disconnect will not bring more lag or bazooka the servers. you already have a check system for disconnect in place, adding a and to that check or modifying an if line will not do anything bad.people will say that players can unplug their modems, lans, etc. well i am sure if this was the requirements less people will do it."
"remember that someone can also just pull out their internet cable."
"this"
"did you guys read the last part of my post? yes people can fake disconnects, but face it, less people will fake disconnects than people who use this tactic now.plus, in an emergency situation, when warping to a camp or when people warp on top of you in a belt, it is easier to ctrl+q to escape the camp, faster as well, than to reach for the modem to shut it off or for the network cable to umplug it.are you not supporting this simply because people can fake disconnects?@at post right under mine: no, making them remain in space is not ok. i will probe all day"
"the simplest and most logical way to solve the issue is to make logged off ships and pods not disappear after emergency warp, unless they have cloak fitted  at which point they should still be in space, but cloaked, in case some changes are made to the game that make cloakers vulnerable to probing, for example .no need to debate circumstances and wether someone logged off on purpose or due to network issues, the mechanics should be the same, and the mechanics that protect you from network issues should never be at the expense of actual gameplay."
"i am still supporting it, as it is my thread, it is just that that isn't really a viable solution. if they do what you say, people will disconnect their modem. the problem is not is the logoffski is an exploit or not, it is what the solution to it should be. ccp may not even have to fix it, just make it a petitionable offense or something."
"pulling your internet cable and ctrl-q are not the same thing. the game acts differently for each.basically the game currently gives a user a much quicker \"lost connection\" response when they ctrl-q than if they actually have a lost connection. a lost connection takes awhile to timeout. so the knowingly exploiting ctrl-q'er is more reliably saved than actual disconnects? that's pretty bogus.they should plug the ctrl-q hole and treat all disco's as such  regardless if they are true or user induced . saying that the server can't tell the difference between a ctrl-q and a disconnect is simply not true.the server can't tell the difference between a router dying versus a user pulling the plug on their wireless, sure. but it obviously knows the difference between a disco and a purposeful ctrl-q already. so why shouldn't it be handled differently?"
"well, if that is true, then i guess i agree."
"anything that'll put a damper on a logger's day."
"sorely needing fixing"
"i will support it as long as implementation does not overly burden the fact that disconnects do happen and the internet is far from 100% reliable.disconnecting purposely to avoid getting blown up should not be allowed."
"imo, the problem is not the cynojammer, it's the combination of capitals quickly coming to help a cynojammer getting shot down. with current game mechanics, the capitals will prevent any offensive if not done with an extreme blob of subcapitals and ewar to stop both the capitals spidertanking and the cynojammer from working.the individual mechanics are only partly broken. bring them together, and they will multiply, resulting in the huge lagfest capital superblobs of todays alliance warfare. the whole thing is broken, and jumpbridges, cynojammers and capital fighter-lagbombs play important parts in it.to be perfectly honest, i absolutely hate carriers, motherships and titans. their introduction ruined 0.0 warfare..having that said, i think the cynojammer+jumpbridging capitals-mechanic needs to be addressed. as a first step, don't allow capitals to use jumpbridges, thus fixing a part of the problem."
"amarr drones need some improvement. higher increase in hp is a step in a right direction."
"actually there is one way you could use orbit distance and range as a boost.give them a 6km orbit and range...that way you would use them when expecting to come up against smartbombs."
"couldn't find this issue raised in any of the threads on the front page  couldn't be bothered to look further , and it's not really a \"hot topic\" right now  it doesn't have 5 new whine threads on gd every day, but i really feel it's time to raise the issue and perhaps have ccp actually do something about it.it has been discussed many times, and one of the biggest arguments against it is that it would hurt those with bad connections too much. this is of course hard to avoid and still getting this under control, but i sincerely feel there are options.for one, let's look at the timers involved. jump through gate, cloaked for 30 seconds. if you log during that time, your ship will disappear after 1 minute wether you get agressed or not. same applies in any circumstance. if you log before you are agressed, your ship disappears after 1 minute. this is the time window people exploit to save their ships from pvp situations.i have thought about a solution to this that would limit the impact on legitimate disconnects, and i've come up with a fiddling of the timers. it goes like this:when you log or disconnect your ship is automatically decloaked, wether it is a fitted cloak or cloaking from a gate jump. the ship will stay motionless in space for 30 seconds. during this time it can be agressed to give it the 15 minute agression timer. if it isn't agressed during these 30 seconds, it will e-warp and then disappear after a full minute. if it is agressed but not scrambled, it will e-warp and remain in space for 15 minutes, just like now. if it is scrambled it will remain in space until it stops being scrambled or the 15 minutes are up. this should limit the amount of people logging off to save their ships from pvp, but without doing too much damage to those with genuine connection problems.thoughts? ideas?"
"generally, i'd agree with you. only real problem is that there is no safe logout procedure in place for people who just want to logout. what i would suggest is that ccp creates a logout procedure that requires you to be uncloaked, and not under an aggression timer. then, with a full view of the area, you should be able to logout in 30 seconds, but you should be able to be aware of your surroundings until you disappear. you should also be able to be flying at full speed but without any modules running  so you are aligned in case something drops in on you during the 30 seconds, and you can safely warpout .i would also add a visible aggrotimer.the only problem remaining is massive gatecamps perhaps, i know it was brought up before that if you make this change, it becomes attractive to create more lag at gatecamps to force dcs  for example with drones out  and then shoot anyone who came in."
"i support, but i don't know about getting decloaked if you are using a fitted cloak. if you are cloaked anyway you could very likely 'save your ship' by simply remaining logged in, so why should logging/disconnecting reveal your ship? you could just stay cloaked anyway, and this will hurt people who genuinely get disconnected in situations where their cloak is keeping them alive, such as covops."
"true, i was aiming more at the cloaking macro ratters. the problem is that if you don't get uncloaked you can always circumvent any measures put in place to avoid loggoffs by just fitting a cloak and then log."
"what situation could you be in where you would be able to cloak, but logging off would be a logoffski? i suppose if you jumped through a gate and landed on a camp, you could move to decloak, engage your own cloak, and then log, all so fast that nothing could be done about it. but at least in that case you have to have a cloak fitted to pull it off, and it is possible cloak and hide right on top of a gatecamp if you are fast.being able to kill cloaking macros would be nice, but the real purpose behind preventing logoffskis is to prevent ships escaping from situations where they should die, and if you can cloak you have already escaped effectively."
"true. valid point. no counter arguments."
"to help fix the macro problem rats should give agression like they did a year or so ago, recon probe launcher cpu requirement should be dropped  atm they are very hard to fit on a normal ship , and the number of scramming rats either needs to increase, or they need more brains  ie mwd every time the ratter is 100km away, not just 20% of the time, and scram more often "
"i will support this topic in its spirit provided there is a safe method of logging off in hostile space when you are not under an agression timer.logging off to avoid getting blown up should be prohibited, unfortunately the problems with the internet do say that issues will happen so that prohibition needs to be carefully done."
"the only change needed is that the aggression timer 15 minutes need to be activated at all times if a players ship is shot/scrammed etc. whether the player is logged in or not.logoffski problems happen because a player is immune to picking up the 15 minute timer if he logs out before he is agressed."
"seriously, i thought this would have stayed on the front page. sorry bud.well, the more threads, the sooner it'll get fixed. if suicide ganking taught us anything, its that."
"another great feature, i am not being sarchastic, that would be the first thing to get turned off in a 50+ fight as it would cause excessive lag. in a perfect word, yes, but in eve, no!"
"<3"
"the issue is as follows. i probe out high sec mission runners. in an effort to expand my scan network within the system, i keep all of my bookmarks. i have amassed a collection of roughly 250 bookmarks.i find it incredibly annoying that we are unable to have a scrolling drop down menu when we click in space. is there any way to grant us this ability this way im not stuck looking only at the bottom of my solar system menu? please ccp change this."
"supportin dis"
"not just here, but also in the map screen when you look at info on a system. only seeing the last two planets worth of moons is hardly useful."
"i have made this post in the hopes that we can help out out fellow caldari.our militia is in chaos. what i propose is to elect leaders for the faction.eg: by people voting out of the best fleet commanders in the militia. a governing body to take charge of the situation and turn the tide of war,smashing fleets of 50+ each against each other is not the way to go about things.tactics are required and battle plans need to be drawn up so that we don't just make a mad rush over no-mans-land like in ww1, shooting the heck out of each other and then running back to our respective trenches.so for this to happen we all need to think long and hard.i would ask that anyone that has had fleet commander experience with the militia to step forward and put there names into the barrel.then once we have a sufficient number of names to begin then it will be cast to a vote so that we can find the best of the best and then start assigning roles for each person as well as backup positions as not everyone is online 24/7.thank you all for taking the time to read this,and happy hunting.contact me in game if you have any questionsmy user name is below.dayne steel"
"first thing first, i think the whole war is pathetic. all i have seen so far is gate camping.good luck with war dayne.you will need it."
"moved to caod."
"well, here come vultures"
"hohooo, hold on man... you mean that someone still cares about fw??"
"oh god please no! move it back!"
"fw is way more fun than 0.0 at this point. so yeah, people care."
"not enough to make a sensible post it seems.and sorry, but i don't either >.< maybe later."
"you know those guys leading empire alliances that get their butts kicked by leet five man griefer outfits, the same guys who lead those gatherings of fail are now trying to lead the militias, governing body, yeah that worked swell for the trail of dead empire alliances left in my wake.ah newbies, you crack me up."
"move it again please!"
"you could do that but you don't have the right to, you are in a player corp in a militia if your so concerned try joining a npc militia corp.and tactics can be done and plans can be made just organise stuff between the player corps in the militia its not difficult."
"if that was an attempt at what i think it was, you failed :/ \"i like to move it move iti like to move it move iti like to move it move itya like to  move it! \"replace with \"you\" for greater justice."
"you must be talking about cow"
"what makes you think a leader has to be a fleet commander?"
"leaders in a random group of people won't go down well, especially as the ones who put themselves forward are normally clueless noobs with an enourmous ego.militia is not an alliance, stop treating it like and and things will be alright!"
"yeah i know :pcouldnt be assed to find the real lyrics, so i edited  or so i thought hehe  it before i was caught in my fail.you saved me though, my knight in caod armor"
"lol, noworries my big huggley bear ! <3 wubbles joo!:adores:xoxoxoxoxoxo*i is drinking :x *"
"i can relate ; "
"intelligence -1000"
"fix'd"
"and that is the reason things like this dont work \"idiots\" like all of you putting it down and making fun of something that could help out in the long run and make this a better game for us all... grow up and smell the roses"
"chill dude, no harm meant. we're just all drunk here.also, ./insert relevant comment here-if i could help i would, but i can't think of anything right now and i like to poast :/ sorry bro <3"
"at the moment, i'm only a director, not ceo, and we're a smaller corp, but still . . . i log in, see my mail is flashing, i open and it and see that it's the personal part, not corp or alliance or any of the various mailing lists i'm on. someone wants to talk to me, i must be special!. . . and then it turns out to be a bill for some office we have. it's almost as bad as getting junk mail, thinking you have actual mail and then finding it's a bill. . . .so either a seperate mail tab for corporate related mails or putting them elsewhere  as long as that elsewhere blinks whenever there's something new!  would be very nice.edit: a general revamp of the evemail system would be good -- like a lot higher limit on characters, so that i don't have to split my message into four parts whenever i come up with a cunning plan i want to tell my fellow directors about."
"how does a titan remain in space, ready to go at a moments notice when a pos one one-hundredth of it's size requires constant upkeep? granted some are only logged in for the dd driveby, others are kept online and in cynojammed systems pretty much twenty three hours a day.how come titans don't require a couple billion in fuel and parts per month to keep running? same could be said for carriers and dreads, though at a reduced cost of course. not talking about jump fuel here, just the power to keep these war machines rolling.don't really have an idea, just curious as to why a titan and a t1 frigate require the same amount of upkeep. fully aware of the soul-destroying banality that is pos refueling, but by and large... some fantastic incoming irony here... titans and caps do alter the landscape far more than any large control tower ever could."
"could be a way to balance them a bit, something needs to change or otherwise we'll see an ever increasing number of titans."
"hello all. a great thread on this already exists here, made by the same person, suspiciously. multi-threading?"
"spamming this thread in support of the op"
"i wholeheartedly approve of this product and/or service."
"this"
"wasn't aware jita stations sold skillbooks. sorry. you left your account unsecured. this is the horrible, horrible price you must now pay. instead of asking a development team to devote time, money, and more time to coding in a fix for you... perhaps it would be better to say 'lesson learned'? and deal with the consequences of your actions?for what it's worth, i've skills trained on my accounts which were mistakes... and will never be completed. however, i firmly believe the basis of eve is that players must suffer the consequences of their own actions for good or ill. so i'll keep those useless skills there and not ask ccp to erase my mistakes.who knows? something may get nerfed/boosted someday and i'll have a leg up."
"id like that.even if you lose the sp id still like to remove some ******ed skills i have :d"
"i am not able to argue for my decision, i simply to not liek the idea.no."
"bad idea."
"lord yes."
"well potentially tough to code, it would be nice."
"i support this : "
"yes!"
"/signage"
"at -10 you gain 2x more ss increse that on 0.0ss i dont see problem with it. only painfull is that each ss increse is every 10 minutes. it should be instant for killing rats."
"issue: people are getting large stacks of navy tags, then selling them 1 by 1 at npc stations because the npc buy orders have a limit of 1.this means it takes ages to sell some stacks and also means many many transactions which probably ain't going to help the lag situations.pretty sure this is an oversight on behalf of ccp, but raising it here anyway.discuss and resolve - thanks"
"considering that market transactions are a significant source of lag, i don't see any reason why the buy order volume shouldn't be raised to 100. i think that ccp could just make a 1-time script to handle it, so i don't think it would be a waste of time for them. need for speed, right guys?"
"issue is resolved.set up a sell order for exact amount that agents are buying for they will auto buy all your tags.edit> set up sell order in same station as purchasing agent obviously hope that helps.tribe"
"how many people utilize that method, though? i think the vast majority of people who sell these tags probably don't know this. wouldn't it be better for everyone involved if the buy order volume was raised?"
"wow - this could be the shortest lifespan of an issue ever!there's a workaround to avoid selling them 1 by 1, by clicking the \"advanced\" market options and you can sell more than one in one go.thanks to dr isk for pointing that out  even if he was an asshat . possibly still an issue since the workaround isn't very intuitive - i've been playing a few years now and never realised this method, though it could just be me since i'm a market noob  according to the dr.  hehe..."
"screw 100, people might have more. make it a million - what's a few zeros among friends? they're npcs and they'll buy everything. might as well make it explicit. if titan books sell in stacks of 1159, tags can be bought by the million. so what you're saying is that a bad ui isn't a problem because an arcane workaround most people would never think of exists? just because it's not wholly impossible to do it doesn't mean that it's anywhere near as smooth as it should be. this needs fixing, just like a zillion other ui/need for speed/stop-****ing-around-your-players-already issues."
"the reason folks prefer to sell them one by one rather than using the advanced option is simple. avoidance of broker fee.if you're trying to maximise the returns on a stack of tags then the last thing you want to do is lose some to a broker, even it is is only 1% it still adds up to a significant amount if you are a relatively new player and have sunk a few million hard-earned isk into shifting some nice tags.i did this myself and i sure wasn't going to pay the broker fee. even if you train up broker relations, i'm currently at lvl3 so only pay 0.82% broker fee, you still may find that an unacceptable loss.i got bored of it though and went back to missioning & salvage."
"i've just now found this thread, but am very interested in solo exploration.i've put a lot of time and planning into being able to pull off solo exploration. its effected which ships i've trained for and in-game behavior patterns.the ships i use: any buzzard any cov-ops will do  and pilgrim.what have effected these decisions are a solo explorer's needs:-the need to bust through gatecamps-the need to scan effectively and efficiently-the need to tank site rats-the need to kill site rats-the need to fit salvager, analyzer, and codebreaker modules-the need to hold many probes-the need to carry many sites worth of lootfrom my experience, the only reliable way to break through a gatecamp is to immediately cloak and warp. if in 0.0, then to immediately cloak, and get the f out of the bubble and pray you don't get bumped.this is why i insist that an exploration ship be covert.an exploration ship should have some kind of astrometrics bonus. preferably a 10%-per-level exploration-only scanning bonus. if thats not possible, then maybe a 7.5% per level astrometrics scanning bonus. at least 5% per level.its hard to say how much gank and tank, slot layouts, and grid/cpy should be expected from an exploration ship. surely for all of the diversity that i would want the ship to be capable of, they should be extremely vulnerable in pvp.i will therefore go with the pilgrim's stats, minus the gun turrets. it is imo the most optimal multipurpose exploration ship currently, and when set up for exploration, extremely weak in pvp, yet strong enough to take on bc rat spawns if you know what you're doing.in fact there are only 2 things that prevent the pilgrim from being the exploration ship that i would ask for, the lack of astrometrics bonus, and insufficient cargohold.so do you try to be overly fair to every other ship role, or go by need? i'd say need.2000m3 would be the maximum cargohold that i would hope for. i don't think that would be unfair.so my proposition for an exploration ship is modeled after the pilgrim as default stats with the following alterations:-4high slots, 5 mid slots, 5 low slots, 2 rig slots, but no turrets-bonuses 10% exploration scan times, 10% drone damage/hitpoints, -96% to -100% cloak cpu use, and maybe a bonus to help with probe launcher cpu fitting as a 4th bonus.-2000m3 cargo capacityi'd be fine with all kinds of pvp penalties. perhaps extremely weak and slow onboards sensors and scanners, although it wouldn't make much sense. i dunno."
"really like the idea."
"just in general, i feel there is a need for corps to play a bigger role in \"corp gains\" and overall development... by that i mean having a corp develop pretty much the same as a player.based on all the member's skills, standings, and security status inside a corp, perhaps the corp should also be able to gain research points, loyalty points, upgrades  of some sort , etc.let corps as a 'corp' develop. - let the ceo choose npc corps to run missions for. then email the mission out to the corp to complete.- corps can do research for npc corps. - buy \"upgrades\" and install them like players train skills. more members = faster installs.- \"fuel\" offices with workers, janitors, paper, water, food, secretaries, whatever : there's a whole new dimension out there for corps. perhaps this can all be intertwined with the \"walking in stations\" development?"
"o_o there are belts and belts full of asteroids of all types in high sec untouched... maybe you should get out and look more.but the reason for prices is : demand > supply"
"if mining was fun... this wouldn't be an issue. trust me on this, you do not want to have to persaude your miners to mine veld in 0.0 as it is the best ore available at the moment."
"i think that fw should be expanded to provide incentives and goals for non-pvp players in addition to pvpers. research agents would be a start."
"i strongly believe that salvaging should be given an aggression flagid like to give two examples to illustrate this point.first example, i warp back to my mission, and find a frigate there. hes salvaged some of my wrecks and stolen loot. hes flashing redi jump at this chance, warp back to station fit a ceptor, warp back and pop the thiefi warp back, to station and he's undocked with an abbadoni switch my nighthawk to a close range pvp fit, and we do a 1v1, in which he only survives by docking.i have had fun, because my preperation has been rewarded, and almost got a kill.he has fun, because he almost ganked a mission running ship, but got out played, he'll be more careful next time, or bring friends.if he brought a gang in, i would have lost my ship, but at least i would have put up a fight. i would have respected that.now lets compare the other situationi dock my onyx in station after low sec pirating. i fire up my nighthawk and start mission running. i warp out to get my salvage destroyer, and find a heron running around salvaging my wrecks.i start to tractor my wrecks, he changes tactics, by bumping my destroyer, negating my tractor beam advantage.i stop, he runs towards the nearest wreck and salvages more.this is not fun, he violating my wrecks, and i'm not able to do anything. even though i have a half dozen pvp ship fitted i'm am force to not risk any of them to take out his salvage ship. and just force to not do anything as he takes my salvage.scorched earth is even more pointless. hes still taking my salvage, just im paying missiles so i can loose salvage in another manner.many of the people talking of aggression, speak as if a  the wreck thief self-destructs when he activates his salvager or b  the mission runner is forced to auto lock and fire all his guns on the salvager.both are misconceptionsthe truth is that aggression flagging is an option for the mission runner. i can eighter let the salvager run with my loot, or risk my ships when he pulls a pvp fit battleship on me. as it stands right now i'm forced with one option. loose my salvage, thats it.i'm not given a choice, concord forces me to loose my salvage to someone else. with no option to risk anything to take him out.yes, i know, he could send in a gank squad, to ambush me, but i've accepted that risk in the first example, when i engaged his salvage ship. i am given no such option in the second, so its just frustration.flagging gives players an option to not defend their wrecks. they can just not shoot the salvagerbut it gives them the option to defend their wrecks with their ships.is it balanced? yes!because they now run the risk of a gank squad warping in with 20 guys and blasting them to hell.that being said, i would approve of mechanisms to protect salvagers who have been given the right to salvage by mission runners. the contract or claim staking proposals work well.what i would like to add is this, a simple warning\"by engaging this person you are allowing his corp and him to engage you with whatever ships they have for the next 30 minutes, be advised that he may not be working alone and/or may have other more combat capable ships readily available\"with a nice tick box to suppress this message in the futurethus if someone got wreck flipped, they would have been warned-------------------------------------------------before i post i would like to give yet another real world example, not really related to the rest of my post. consider this a box inlaid with jewels containing clothes. ccp now says, if a thief breaks into your house, and steals your clothes, you can shoot him. but if he takes a pliers and prys off the jewels he cannot be shot. you protest , they are my jewels! but people on the forums say \"no! he took skills and time and resources to break into your house!\", \"the jewels are not yours, he needed skill and a pair of pliers to remove them!\"."
"the protecting the salvager \"if they ask\" idea is great, but your post mostly looked like this:would you like a whaaaaa-burger to go with those french cries?"
"\"i get a kick out of this i am going to assume that with your defence on this you are a ninja salvager\"did this guy even bother to check our corp name?"
"probably not. =plike teh motto says..our ships are fueled by carebear tears.if you really want to make more isk, then leave us the wrecks  they are useless to you, really, unless you are a noob or are building rigs  and go on to another mission. you could make more isk by flying a higher volume of missions rather than cry about a few skimmed wrecks off the top."
"you have the misconception that the mission deadspace is yours, which it is not. you are running a mission in free space, which i can enter and exit without incident.if the mission space was yours, i would expect concord to arrive  like a police officer in rl  or, at least, i would expect you to have the option to defend it. this is not the case, making this part of your argument false, and negating the rest as well.sorry, mate. no dice."
"[x] the ninja salvager should not be aggro'd to the mission runner after the first wreck is salvaged, because i support ccp's current ruling that salvage is free for anyone with the proper tools to retrieve from wrecks.you cry and that make morbid laugh. morbid find this very ammusing. wahhhh my salvage got eat by ninja!"
"i'd like to go on record and say, right now, that i don't actually eat the salvage... i mean, it looks tasty and all, all piled up in my cargohold..."
"[x] the ninja salvager should be aggro'd to the mission runner after the first wreck is salvaged, because the mission runner owns the wrecks, and i feel that ccp needs to change the current dynamic.absolutely.not infrequently the salvage from a ship exceeds the value of the loot and, really when one thinks of it, both are 'things found in a wreck' which technically makes all of it 'salvage'  real world definition not eve rules definition . the same rules should apply to both.that said, i'd love to see the ability to contract out loot and salvage rights which would keep salvagers in the game as a profession. lots of folks don't do salvage  there have been times i don't bother although only seldom in empire  and there are empire mission runners who have no desire to do so. contracting those rights for a flat fee or a percentage would be a cool addition to the game."
"if you don't want opinions, you should ask for them. we all know  and in particular the folks from the csm know  the 'arguments' over 'ninja salvaging'. yes, we all know what ccp's position was when the system was created and what it, by default history, currently is.the question you are asking is, effectively, \"what should it be?\"when someone offers up an opinion you come back with all the  very old  arguments the chiefest amongst them being 'ccp made it thus'. yes, they did. however ccp knows, as do all of us, that not everything they have ever done has been right. so that argument is moot. those who feel a change is needed feel that ccp was wrong, even if well intentioned, and that the mechanism should change. hence arguing that the current position is right because it's the current position is simply noise.you would do better arguing why it should remain the current position on its own merits rather than just because it is the status quo."
"why yes, please do exactly that.in the real world anyone who files a claim to a wreck has exclusive rights to that wreck - at least in territorial waters. it gets dicey in international waters as while you can file for rights other countries don't have to recognize them.now consider that all empire space  high sec or low  is the 'territorial waters' of that nationstate.so - the missioner blows the ship up and tags it with his hud. his computer sends the claim to the nation and he has 'possession'. that must happen or he or she could not claim 'ownership' of the loot. the missioner has the pre-eminent legal claim.in real world salvage ops there is no strange 'division' between cargo and vessel. you get rights to the lot  the only exception being warships which are considered wargraves and property of the nation whose ship it was . if you want to pull the gold out of a spanish treasure ship and you have the valid claim, you can. should you want to bring up surviving sections of the ship's hull - those are yours too  assuming that such has survived .so yes, please, do some real research."
"i can't speak for anyone else but my argument has nothing to do with what things have been historically under ccp, rather my argument is that mission-runners are just going to leave the salvage  or blow it up just to spite me  so it's not theft, unlike ore theft in which the producer of the ore intends to sell it.there is also the matter of the salvaged vessel not actually belonging to the mission-runner  it belongs to the npc corp it was from in the first place  but i guess that would fall into the \"argument from history\" which i guess you are saying is not valid."
"so if the mission runner is going to salvage it than it is theft? how do you know? i salvage every one of my wrecks in empire in every mission - the only exception being when the real world intervenes creating an inability to spend the time because i'm needed doing something not on the computer  or at least not on eve .there are holes in that argument. if we engage in battle someplace  high or low sec where flagging matters  and i shoot your ship up you can come along and take your modules back. taking them won't flag you for theft, they're still \"yours\". however i can also take them, if i choose, and that's not theft either, because i blew the ship up.in eve, currently, loot is sort of dual ownership - the killer and the killee. however if someone else comes along and steals your stuff they'll be flashy red to me. i'm not positive but i don't think they will be to you, even though those were originally your modules.preminent claim would seem to go to the killer.real world or historical examples have limited utility because they all assume that the salvage is just that. salvage. all of it. cannon, hull, computers, cargo, wiring, copper pipe, old cars, everything. in eve we have a situation where some of that stuff 'belongs' to the 'killer' while some of it is just free 'up for grabs'. which is exceedingly odd. it would make sense  and the 'it's just junk' argument would fly  if the 'salvage' had low/minimal value that required a lot of volume to recoup. one could then see folks not 'caring' about salvage rights for what is truly 'junk'. then salvage would be a perfectly sane profession, but it wouldn't pay well. it would be safe, downright boring really, but it wouldn't pay well.the disjunct comes when the 'salvage' has considerable value. frequently more than the 'loot'. suddenly the 'it's just junk' argument becomes completely spurious. why? because something that's worth 16 million isk isn't junk! particularly not if it took you only a short time to collect with minimal investment in skills and kit.were salvage lower value - problem solved. most mission runners simply wouldn't care and we wouldn't all be here. were the costs involved in recouping the salvage really high - or the skills really difficult to obtain, then you'd see the same effect.but that isn't the case. someone is coming along and taking something very valuable from you that would not be present were it not for your efforts.that isn't salvage, that's stealing."
"and yet people still implement them. why? because other people will get ****ed if they didnt.see, on one hand you please some and **** off others, and on the other hand, if you didnt, you **** off the first group, and please the second.its just a matter of numbers. more people would like the word filters in, either out of comfort in not reading something that jives with their vocabulary, may be read by their minor out-of-context, etc."
"really? i'd like to see the stats that say more people want one in."
"hmmmm.... while it may not be pleasant, these are merely words. option 3 is a good idea, but the other two dont work. free speech is a immutable right, and i would side with the bigots to fight for it. im new to mmorpgs, and computers in general, but the most glaring aspect i've noticed is how people interact. there is no threat of violence when blogging or gaming. it will be interesting to see how this will affect our world, when violence re-enters the equation."
"if you encounter activity in game that you'd consider to be of a bigot nature, or are offended by anything, please create a petition here under the harassment category.i assure you this is not condoned by us and we do take action on a daily basis against it."
"offended by anything.... where does it end?"
"that's not very sensitive of you. i happen to be 1/32 polish and my next door neighbor's great-great-great aunt passed through botswana once! please have some consideration for others when posting."
"if you didn't want people to talk about it, you shouldn't have brought it up in your op oh, and...you're whining about whiners"
"back when ccp first calculated their tracking effectiveness and glancing blows for all of the gun  and missile stuff , they didn't have all of the speed issues there are now.and whether current speeds were originally intended or not, i viewed a blog today that made some good points."
"what i want to know, and you all should ask yourselves during that metting - why was this thread ignored: pos: flogging the dead horse when number of csm have shown support for the idea, and we even received feedback that it was submitted to ccp, and yet it is mysteriously missing from the ccp-csm meeting notes.basically, what some members of csm are doing, as i see it, was practice their lies on the greater community, why say \"we have submitted the issue to ccp\" when you did not? and if you did where is the evidence of it?what i see some csm members doing are pushing through \"pet projects\" - many of them quite controversial while ignoring a pretty much 100% supported idea; i would think something that is unilaterally supported and has little or no controversy over it, and the idea which was ignored by ccp for over 2 years, although affecting gameplay of thousands would take priority over \"pet projects.\""
"i already explained this to you in another thread.we actually voted on this issue and it was brought onto iceland. but a mistake was made when the issues were sent to ccp, which means it was not discussed at iceland."
"could you please point me to the statement, and if mistake was made, and it was not discussed, shouldn't you follow up with ccp - and get assurances that despite the mistake they are indeed \"officially\" taking it under advisement. again, i did not see any statement from you or any other csm, in the recent days - this is first time i am seeing you reply, and i have been pushing this since i saw the issue missing from the minutes....edit:again, i tried locating a statement by you, or any other csm regarding the issue - and i have failed to do so, so please point me there. i have looked in all of the 3 threads where the statement might be, or rather where it should be, and where i have been voicing my concerns: 1  initial ccp-csm meeting priority list, 2  pos flogging the dead horse thread, and 3  the [issue] thread in the assembly hall - none of them contain a statement from you or any other csm member subsequent to me starting this. the other statement still stands, if a mistake was made, when the issues were sent to ccp, what kind of mistake? was it just an oversight and ccp is working on it/taking it under advisement, or does the \"mistake\" mean that ccp can ignore it, since it was not officially inaugurated by csm to ccp."
"i can remember saying something about this too. we voted on the issue to take to iceland and for some reason it wasn't listed on the minutes when we were at the face to face meeting. i'm still not sure why. at the time we resolved to just add it to the submitted issues for the 2nd meeting in august and ask for developer feedback once again. i think a lot of responses have been buried in the enormous assembly hall spam is the main problem. bottom line - this issue should have been raised in iceland and i'm not sure why it wasn't. in any case we'll ensure its submitted with the issues for the 2nd meeting. there it is jinx, not sure what else we can do bar that.  it doesn't need to go before the csm again btw, we already voted it onto the formal agenda and there's no need to waste time discussing it again. we will just add it straight to the list of issues for submission again. "
"this is fine then, i understand that things might get lost and might get mixed up. what really bothered me is that it took me so many days to actually hear from you guys while shouting in three separate threads. so, basically, issue was submitted to ccp, as far as you and csm are concerned they - the ccp - are working on it. and in august you will let us know what is going on? correct?"
"ccp hasn't stated nor suggested they were working on it. so really, the only thing we can do now is to wait till the next ccp-csm meeting, for an answer.i was really excited to see ccp's response on the issue, as it's really nicely laid out. but oh well, nothing we can do.according to my email, ankh suggested that she hadn't received the submission template when she sent the issues off to ccp. but they were submitted in the second batch, but those weren't discussed."
"the spammed assembly hall is the major problem i think - like i said i'm pretty sure i already said there'd been a problem with this issue and for some reason it hadn't gotten on the agenda but i have no idea how to find that post either with the noise ratio in that forum ... but anyways hopefully it'll be good for the next meeting. for some reason it didn't appear on ccp's list of submitted issues so they had no chance to get substantive feedback for the iceland meeting. we need to make sure it definitely appears on their list next time around and gives the appropriate developers the neccessary time to reply substantively to the issue - its a major  visionary  game change of the sort we've been invited to submit and its going to need a serious assessment from the appropriate ccp staff. fingers crossed all goes well for august and we'll get appropriate feedback from the 2nd formal meeting. all the best."
"ok, excellent, so long as it is not swept under the rug. we have been waiting for 2 years, little more now, we can wait a bit longer. appreciate your replies guys, and lets see what happens in august."
"access logs does make sense.  and would be handy for other things, other than tracking down thieves. "
"as far as i know that issue was only informally discussed. there were a few issues that were handed in too late to made it to the official agenda, but were discussed after the meetings. thus they are on the priority list but not in the minutes."
"i'm not much of a killer... i didn't even know this was how it worked.have to say, i agree completely.edit: then i read the guy above me who suggested dual ownership. not sure about technical feasibility, but yeah, it is silly that the corpmates of the dead guy can't grab his loot without getting flagged.agree even more to the dual ownership suggestion."
"hwo about target painters :d they are completly useless in most situations."
"support"
"wanted to train for the arazu, however ccp nerfed my ship before i ever got the chance, now all i do is sit and cry in the shower."
"erm? what? are we even looking at the same ship?my arazu tackles from 40+km away, why would it ever want to get in close?"
"change the lach and arazu to focus on different rolesarazu: fleet support and anti-sniper20% scram range10% damp falloff5% damp effectivenesscloak fitting bonuslach: small gang5% hybrid damage5% missile rof  please stop making me use missiles, but thats a different complaint 10% damp effectiveness20% scram.one ship gets much longer ranged damps, but they operate in falloff so at decreased efficiency. this is nice for anti-sniper roles.the other gets much greater damp effectiveness and damage, but is focused on close range, more small-gang or low-sec oriented fighting."
"/signed"
"as an ewar enthusiast, i like seeing these ships used, and since the damp nerf i have felt that damps might have been nerfed too much. in peparation for bringing this issue to the next csm meeting i was doing research on the subject, and i have to admit at first it actually doesn't seem like the rsd's need to be boosted. arazu's and lachesis' can still dampen most players to less than 60km while scrambling them with a 60km faction scrambler like they could before. it seemed people were upset because their i win button was removed.however, after talking more with gallente ewar pilots, it becomes apparent that although the damps might not be bad in their current form, there isnt a real need for them. ecm can prevent people from getting target locks, and an often heard complaint is that in low range combat the dampening doesn't really matter anyway. the warp jammer range bonus is nice, but many pilots feel it doesnt compete with the recently introduced hics and various warp disruption bubbles. in short, the gallente ewar doesn't really have a purpose or role.i dont quite feel comfortable bringing this issue to the csm in its current form because in my opinion, too many people are simply asking for too big a boost to rsd  returning to pre nerf strength, simply adding range bonuses like ecm, etc  that would overpower gallente ewar. that said, i do think its a valid point to discuss, and i think we should focus more on what seems to be the root of the problem with remote sensor dampeners: what is the role or purpose of gallente ewar?only once we determine what the role or purpose of gallente ewar should be can we start thinking about possible changes/fixes/solutions. as it stands, this question seems to be unanswered. keep in mind that the role shouldn't be \"all overpowering i win explosions\", we're looking for a role that sets the gallente ewar ships appart, isnt easily covered by other ships and is not overpowered: there has to be a counter. i'll give an example below.one solution i found that i did find interesting was the following:make gallente ewar anti-sniper ewar. the role of gallente ewar ships would be anti-sniper. being able to force snipers to give up or come closer seems to fit with the gallente preference for close range combat.in order to achieve this, dampner strength would be reduced further. yes, i know, this sounds like complete fail doesn't it. it wouldnt be reduced much, only a few percentages at most. this will prevent rsd being overpowered on short to mid range. to compensate gallente ewar ships  celestis, arazu and lachesis  would receive a range bonus similar to their caldari counterparts. a fully skilled and rigged arazu or lachesis pilot should be able to succesfully dampen targets at 200km, with a few dozen km in falloff. this should be a severe problem for sniper ships, while still allowing them to counter long range damps by fitting several sensor boosters.the result of this change would be that gallente ewar would be very useful in countering snipers, but not be all overpowering like it used to be.ultimately ofcourse, this is just a possible solution - one which i suspect wont be liked by everyone. i hope however that it will help get a bit more discussion for a real solution going here, instead of simply trying to revert the rsd rebalance."
"thanks for your thorough reply.let me get streight to the point s :- should it be mandatory to fit a faction point on the recons?  imho, no - the recons have the option of a second ewar, the celestis does not- dampeners don't have the necessary range to reach the snipers  optimal 45, falloff 90 with all 5 skills . compared to ecm, it has a much greater chance to fail assuming a 110km sniper standoff. plus, due to their shorter cycle time, the effect is much more likely to be statistical  closer to the projected probability .racial ecm has a range of 162/42 almost twice as far, multispecs reach 108/27  assuming t2, all 5 and a caldari recon the damps are already beyond falloff when the ecm is barely stating.- as long range supression vessels, the gallente recons have a slightly shorter locking range"
"keen reply, you are the first to really mention sensor boosters in this entire thread.why would rsds not be overpowered if they were given a massive strength bonus? because any sniper that intends to do any sort of ranged combat  around 150+  will be using multiple sensor boosters. guess what ewar gets stacking nerfed against sensor boosters? you guessed it, rsds. sensor boosters, even though they are scripted, are a must fit module even when not considering the availability of rsds on the battlefield because they become a null issue. either a  need to have stacking removed or b  need a massive strength boost to overcome it and maintain effectiveness.you are right, gallente recon is anti-sniper since gallente combat is primarily short range  drone travel time + blasters . rsds should force them to engage in mid to short range combat  around 50km  so in order to do that it needs the optimal  150km after bonus + skills  to reach that far and strength to do so. needs the math required to reasonably affect a dual sensor boosted rokh."
"i will support this issue, because it requests that these ships are reviewed. i agree, they need revisiting.however i don't think the fix is necessarily in the rsds. at the moment, it's possible to damp _any_ t1 ship, to below a t2 warp disruptor range on an arazu, with one damp. albeit only just, for the extreme cases.but what's often missed, is that dampening ships don't _just_ do dampening. an arazu does ... what, 200dps? and tackles, and tanks. it's actually quite dangerously close to being overpowered if it can 'ecm tank + nano + do damage'.  it's already pretty deadly as a solo ratter slayer, but that's a bit of a poor combat niche to be occupying personally, i think the fix might be something like investigating increasing the dronebay on these ships, or looking at what _else_ they do. i mean, 'bad ewar' doesn't make a bad ship - just ask a minmatar pilot what they think of target painters, especially in reference to the huginn/rapier/hyena. so yes, tacitly supported, since the issue is 'revisiting' rsd ships, not necessarily the rsds themselves."
"with recon 5, a t2 warp disruptor ii, will do 48km. with two of those effectiveness rigs, an rsd ii will put the longest range locking ship t1 ship  the rokh  to a locking range of 46.61km. neither does the bellicose. nor the arbitrator. nor actually the blackbird. but hey, the celestis _does_ have turret damager bonus _and_ 40m3 of dronebay. actually multispec ecm optimal is 54 + 27km. on a 100% range bonused ship, that's 108+27 - your 1 falloff is therefore 135km, where on an rsd it's ... 45+90km, which comes out at exactly he same number. it's just your second falloff is 3x as long.  so an upper edge of 225km you're trading 50% chance of halving their range with the rsd  and thus probably dropping their lock  for a 50% chance, of having a chance of jamming them for 20s.  6 vs. sensor strength means 60% chance against a frigate, and 30% chance or so against a bs. unless we're talking about fitting signal distortion amplifiers here, which in turn means using up lowslots as well now, i agree that racial jammers do have a longer range, but ... well, they're racial jammers - that means they're not all that effective against off race ships. that's very definitely a tradeoff, and one i can't see being good for damps - damp ships aren't _just_ damp ships, so they'd be really hurting if you _had_ to fit 4 to be effective against any race of ships. there's a racial skew on locking ranges vs. scan resolution. gallente recons have a shorter locking range, but in turn a higher scan resolution. either way, neither arazu nor falcon can lock to it's maximal ranges, and thus needs to rig or sensor boost.issue supported regardless, but as i say, the answer i feel, is _not_ in the rsds, but looking to what else these ships do."
"i don't think the resulution is making the arazu a anti sniper. that would limit it to 0.0. i'd rather give the rsd ships a slight bonus to dampning strenght and otherwise keep them as is."
"no kidding. i trained for an arazu. realized how worthless it is, and sold it in jita. but at least i can fly an ishtar now."
"you didn't support it in this post."
"you didn't support it in this post.see: post above."
"new question then: because of the dampener change, what has changed in how you use gallente ewar - both on the gallente ewar ships, and on 'regular' ships? please be as specific and detailed as possible - what could you do before that you can't do  or not as well  now, etc.i can see merit in supporting a re-evaluation of remote sensor dampeners, but i want to make sure we can tell ccp something better than \"please change it back thx\". : "
"that's the kind of thing i'd be looking for. having my ship on one monitor is fine, because if i could move the chat, overview and other windows to a second monitor, it would leave me with much more room to see the action."
"this is a frikin-2yrold suggestion. you had a chance with trinity, ccp, and you blew it."
"well i just got a new 22\" monitor and it's damn big. but hell, if i could use two screens, i would!"
"i agree."
"perfect idea"
"oh yes please! eve on one monitor, and on the other one: the map, chat windows, directional scanner, overview, etc..."
"i made a mistake in setting up moon harvesters and silos in one pos - i forgot to drag the minerals the harvesters to silos before onlining everything. fixing that cost me over an hour where i had to sit in the pos and watch progress bars. i managed to get two or three courier missions done during the 20min breaks to offline/unanchor, so it wasn't a total loss.please, ccp, fix pos management = "
"ummm... you can't connect them unless they are online.the time it takes should not be changed, but i agree that you should be able to queue it all up and go do something else for the 8 hours it takes it all to anchor and online."
"covert ops cloaks are not acceptable, at least until stealth bombers get a covops cloak. bombers are even more useless than black ops right now, a black ops at least has the jump bridge ability to make it worth using, while the only reason to ever fly a bomber over a recon is the lower mass for use with black ops portals."
"all i really want is the ability to have slot one additional skill after the one that is training. that way i can reasonably do a 5 or 6 hour skill during the workday and have something else start immediately, instead of having to wait 3 or 4 hours until i make it back home."
"i seriously cannot understand the \"farmer\" argument. they're farmers, they're already logged into the game, you know, farming. they would never even use a queue. a queue would only be useful to people who have large daily chunks of time they cannot be logged in, ie, work, sleeping. basically the opposite of farmers. of course it would have to shut off the queue when the account went inactive, that's pretty common sense. one of the key elements of this game is that the gameplay itself is what \"encourages people to log on and play\". a queue just makes \"leveling\" a bit easier and i don't have to freak out when my horrible isp craps out on me."
"what's with all the people supporting this idea, in their comment, but not the checkbox?or am i somehow misreading tens of posts?"
"it's a minutes thread, not a proposal thread, and as such the thumb is largely meaningless. i'm using it largely to indicate threads where i think ccp made the right decision, for example. this is the problem with the thumb - it's way too ambiguous. give us a proper forum polling mechanism asap."
"this should go on the top of the list of things to be done."
"i'd rather see it give more jump clones, 24 hours is plenty short. regardless, it should require v not iv."
"up."
"/signage"
"what a crock of ****.i'm putting that politely by the way!what about us mercs that make our living by accepting contracts for wars. all this is going to do is kill off our business and allow even more \"grief\" in high sec because people will know they can be asses and get away with it, the cost of waring them will be too high.why don't you just make 0.5 - 1.0 a non pvp area and be done with it. absolutely ridiculous!"
"keep local but make it not auto update who's on the system, however show total number of ppl in systemmodify constellation channel to show everyone in constellationmake everyone who as spoken i local visible in local to everyone that was in local when the person spoke, this way a gang searching for someone in constelation can easily say something like \"report\" and all friendlys in system would say something so that the gang can see if any hostile is there  or if a friendly is afk lol "
"i like this idea."
"wonderful news. there has been a gaping hole in between 1m industrials and 1b freighters for far too long."
"somthing in between is needed for sure ..i figure somewhere around 100km3 to 150km3 cargo space.able to use jetcans and with tractors capital or normal.this would be a bridge gap ship for miners in empire. as well as alowing people who cant afford a billion isk to transport more then the tiny amout alowed with indy. and transport ships. the the advent of t2 ore ships. and nothing new in the hauling department. miners are left in the dust trying to move the large amouts of ore they can mine in an efficent way. when a small corp mining group has 4 hulds pulling 4000m3 or more each. personaly i can pull 4500m3 every 3 minutes. after a good day of mining transporting it all to sell or to move it for production is a pain."
"1. make it more effective against larger targets. blobs consist mainly of bs. if a bomb shall be anti-blob, it needs to focus on killing bs. at the same time, it should not easily wipe out roaming gangs with smaller ships.considering the tank that even cruisers have, i suggest something like:1x damage against frig hulls4x damage against cruiser hulls9x damage against bs hulls16x damage against cap hulls...2. bombs need to explode even if the bomber has warped away, cloaked, is destroyed."
"i would like to be able to search courier contracts by cargo size, payout and collateral. can you please add working filters with these in mind."
"i've had a few ideas as far as contracts go...1  courier contracts are basically useless. people want 200mil collateral, for 50+ jumps, with 2k reward. so my idea is, automatically calculate reward based on the contractors estimated collateral. that way you know you're getting some percentage of what they asked for up front. if i'm risking life and limb to traverse low sec for your 200mil \"whatever\", then i'd like something that resembles a \"reward\" instead of a \"ripoff\" at the end.2  item contract titles should not be custom. sadly, there are a lot of suckers complaining in local when someone says \"hey, buy my deimos\" and sells them a thorax. yes, i admit... it's up to the buyer to pay attention to what they're doing. the link in local said deimos, and the contract title said deimos, but the actual icon said thorax and they should have paid attention. but it's still grief.3  size limit is also an issue. if a corp only has a couple freighter pilots who rarely come online, and several miners gathering ore and minerals for the corp... how many contracts do you expect me to create for transit. i understand it's a matter of timing and coordination... but the system could bend a little to compensate as well.perhaps a slight tweak, either for all couriers or maybe just corp couriers... but allow larger contracts that could be broken down. if you have 500k m3 in ore, the freighter can get it at once. if several indy's are available sooner, then they can take bits and pieces until the entire contract's worth has reached the destination.ideas"
"1  don't take a bad contract.2  don't take a bad contract.3  this would allow a battleship to be moved in a hauler over the course of 10 trips. this seems obviously wrong. the size cap does need to go up, but breaking down has to be limited by the contents of the package."
"1  don't let them make a bad contract to begin with. we're paying a fee to ~someone~ in order to file the contract in the first place. so why don't they read over the thing first and say \"don't you think that's cheap?\" or \"umm, that's not actually a navy issue ship, ya know.\"2  see #13  i would think that is obvious. if a single item is 500k m3, then that's what it is. but a single contract containing 500k m3 worth of ore and minerals could easily be broken down into smaller portions.i thought it was perfectly clear the first time... but i'll do it in crayon next time, just for you."
"what i'd like to see is far more flexibility and transparencyfor example, say i want to put a contract on the market to move 100 million tritanium from one station to another.1. i would set a reasonable rate for the contract  i.e. 0.1 isk per unit per jump. 2. i would set a reasonable collateral to cover for items going missing in transit  ie 4 isk per unit 3. i would pay interbus a fee equal to the total rate to complete the contract.  in this example, say i wanted the tritanium moved 3 jumps, the fee would come out as 30 million isk 4. my name would not be tied to the contract, anyone accepting would be dealing with interbus.5. now here's where it gets interesting, it's unlikely that anyone would want to try to take on the entire contract in one go. this is fine as with this idea, a potential hauler would be able to bid on a portion of the contract.example, someone has a hauler with 10,000m3 of free space. they would be able to bid to accept up to that amount of the contract  1 million tritanium  paying scc a fee equal to the collateral for that shipment  4 million isk . on delivery, interbus would return the collateral as well as a portion of the fee paid by the contract creator  300,000 isk , this would be shown in both parties transaction histories as being a transaction from interbus thus maintaining anonimity for both parties.potentially, interbus would also give lp for successfully completing contract deliveries for them.so how would you stop scamming? simple, you would need a minimum standing with interbus to take on expensive jobs  for example, you might need 0.0-0.1 standing to accept a contract with 1,000,000 isk as it's collateral with the maximum collateral acceptable in one run being 999 million isk  at standing 9.99 , failure to complete a delivery within a reasonable period of time  3 days?  would result in no standing gain whereas failure to deliver within 7 days would lead to both a standings drop proportional to the collateral paid, the collateral would be paid to the contract creator from interbus and an eve-mail sent to the contract creator informing them of what had failed to be delivered and who was carrying it, it would then be up to the two parties to hammer out reasons as to why it didn't get there  for example, the hauler could provide a link to the killmail showing the loss of the items if they were destroyed in transit.  of course, the contract creator would be free to disbelieve this and find other ways to take the value out of the hauler  by war dec an interesting twist on this would be to restrict the acceptance of contracts to players within a player run corporation."
"1  you're paying a listing fee to be displayed on the contracts page without having to station trade, not an \"is this fair?\" fee. and even then, the contract is exactly as specified - you're allowed to lie in the title, but everything else is guaranteed to be accurate, and it's petitionable if it's not. also, your original proposal was to have reward be automatically calculated, which seems obviously a bad idea. moving a given quantity of trit and a given quantity of mega the same number of jumps through highsec justifies basically the same reward, but 2000x the collateral. you want the game to force me into 2000x the reward? you'll just be destroying the courier business if you do that. also, deletion of contract titles yields other problems. for example, mfo and mro skillbooks exist, but they cannot be autolinked or searched on contract. the only way to find them is to search the contract title. if you delete contract titles, you destroy the ability to create public contracts for goods of this nature. given that i feel not the slightest bit of sympathy towards those who get scammed by title fraud, i can't advocate ruining legitimate businesses just to save people from their own incompetence. 3  if it works that way, fine. could be a bit of a pain organizing the goods to ship and the goods to leave, unless you give the shipping container an items window, but in principle it works well enough. the problem with that is that it forces people into homogeneous contracts. what if you want 100 million units of assorted minerals moved from your mission hub to market? do you set separate collateral and reward for each of them? what if you're moving 100 different kinds of goods? you can't set a contract for each of them, since you can't have more than 21, so creation of the contract alone would take an hour for big piles of goods. i like the idea of allowing separable contracts, but it needs to be an option. as for doing it through interbus, i'm not really a fan. you're forcing collateral limits way too low, and standing requirements are bizarre. the whole reason for collateral is that if it's a scam you don't care, because you just sold the goods at a profit to your scammer. if you want to pay 4 a unit for my trit, be my guest. if you aren't willing to part with the goods for the collateral, set a higher collateral."
"well to work on that premise, say for example, you want to move stacks of all 8 minerals from one station to another. you would highlight the group you want to contract, right-click to create the contract which would open up a dialogue boxfor example, say you were in luminaireitem quantity  volume   unit collateral reward per jump destinationtritanium 1,000,000  10,000m3  3.6 isk 0.2isk oursalaert  station pyerite 100,000   1,000m3  5 isk 0.2isk rens  station mexallon 50,000   500m3  30 isk 0.2isk amaar  station isogen 10,000   100m3  75 isk 0.2isk hek  station nocxium 1,000   10m3  120 isk 0.2isk jita  station  edit: *growls at forum software for being unable to set up a simple table* once you'd set this up your items would be placed on the list of contracts available from that station, the hauler would then look at the available jobs, might not want to be going near jita, but is doing a run down towards amaar, so he would be able to accept that portion of the contract.that way you get the functionality of multiple contracts to multiple destinations, being able to set the collaterals and rates for each part of the contract all using up only a single contract slot.just brainstorming possible ideas, the idea behind making it standing based was to introduce lasting consequences for failing to make deliveries you've committed to  note, trips that either begin, end or have no other option but to go through low sec should not result in standings loss, just loss of collateral, interbus accepts that lowsec is dangerous, thats why they've subcontracted you to do the delivery , screw up enough and interbus won't give you any more work  so you wouldn't be able to accept any contract to haul items then . as to the collateral limits, it was more an idea that you'd need to build up from \"milk runs\" to get access to the more lucrative contracts. the collateral limits suggested would also be open to discussion, they were a starting point.though if you were getting into the realms where you were having to set collaterals of near on a billion isk for a single item then you'd want to be damned sure that the person taking the contract is trustworthy enough that you'll see your items at the other end."
"not a terrible idea. i worry a lot about how it would look once implemented, but in principle it's not bad.i still disagree on worrying about security on my courier contracts. i can easily envision a situation where someone missions a lot in an out of the way system, amasses a pile of named goods their local market can't absorb in any reasonable amount of time, and wants to move them to jita for sale this is a process i partake in, for reference . it's not difficult to put together a billion isk of such goods if you're a missioner and don't clean your hangars often, and then find yourself unable to move them because you don't fly a big industrial or freighter. so i've got maybe 800m worth of stuff i'm looking to unload, and i stick up a courier for it with a billion of collateral. if the guy moves it, i shuttle over to jita and battle the lag monster for a few hours, and if the guy steals it then i just unloaded all my goods at what i think was a good price, and don't have to deal with any of the difficulties of actually selling it myself. the thief is doing me a service, because i set my collateral properly. and this is a situation that is quite believable for me to find myself in - probably not at quite that scale, but in principle. interbus keeping track of your courier performance and rating you on it seems a good mechanism, and you could put an interbus standing requirement on the courier, for the especially paranoid or for people dealing in time-sensitive goods. but it should be optional on the contractor's part."
"i'm seeing where some of the crossed wires are here in this idea.the collateral limits would be an upper limit as to what interbus would entrust you with. so with your example of 1 billion isk worth of mission loot remember that it's 1 billion across maybe thousands of items, so, for example, someone with a collateral limit would be restricted to only being able to carry cargo with a total collateral equalling his limit. say that he had a limit of 200 million. then he could do your entire contract in 5 runs.however, say you had a juicy officer mod  for example  in the middle of that loot that you've valued for collateral at 500 million for that item alone, then no matter how much room he had in his hold he couldn't touch it until he's more trusted with interbus  how do you get more trusted? successfully complete hauling runs. closer to your limit you get the better the standing increases would be. does this help to explain better what the premise of this idea is?"
"now this part i don't like. that's saying that courier contracts are a faction mission now. and no one can even attempt to run them until they have started running npc missions for interbus first.i'd say, as far as the collateral of a mass shipment with a single pricy item is concerned... put a single amount on the whole package, or list the pricy stuff separately.going back to my suggestion before.whether you're asking to trek a huge load of veld, or a single mega... you're asking for 200bil collateral. so yes, i do think that the reward should be the same for both contracts. but the reward should reflect the value of the cargo as well as the travel involved. so either shipment, carried entirely through high sec, wouldn't require as much of a default reward, as they would if carried through low/null sec.routes are calculated on a contract when you list pickup and delivery. so the reward is calculated based on the safest/shortest route between. if a hauler can't enter high sec due to standings, or wants to dip into low sec for a shortcut... that's on them."
"i never miss an oppertunity to get on the soapbox."
"sure. wish i owned t2 bpos so this would really matter to me, but the consequences to those as do own them are clear enough."
"a statement of intent would indeed be a good thing for all the people who own and/or are thinking of investing in these."
"he he he...."
"they are not taking away your t2 bpos yetasking for a definitive answer that they will never change something is a fool's question and ccp would be a fool to say they would never change something. do we really need over 9000 dev blogs a month saying \"no we won't change x mechanic yet, but maybe in the future\"if you think that you will get an answer so you can capitalize on something ingame, then you are a fool. this is eve, at anytime they can trash t2 bpos and wreck your investment. don't like it? then get out of the t2 bpo market. most likely if ccp ever changes t2 bpos, there will be a dev blog on it months in advance so calm down, you paranoid bear.itt: fools asking fool's questions because they are fools who dropped out of fool school."
"i haven't seen this thread till now.any information is better than no information."
"i suppose you failed reading comprehension 101 in school, or the equivalent. perhaps re-reading the op, and subsequent posts by me should clarify things even for someone who went to mr. t's school of etiquette. all the information ccp given out so far, as the one made by ccp chronotis in the linked text, is old. and most people who jump to conclusions, you should think about that one, are also the one who are stirring the pot when it comes to t2 bpos. anyway, you do not want to know what devs think, ok. it is your choice. i do. have a nice day."
"reading a few of the posts on the topics of sovereignty and poses gave me a few ideas, which i post here. there are two elements to my proposal - a wide range of useful, non-pos anchorable structures, and the concept of linked defenses.useful, non-pos anchorablesgeneral theory: provide a lot more structures that cannot be anchored at a pos that provide benefits for defenders and targets for attackers, whose benefits make them worth deploying, and worth destroying. these structures exist on a spectrum, with the smallest providing little benefit and being relatively easy to destroy but requiring no maintenance  anchor and forget  to the larger ones providing great benefits but requiring more complex maintenance  i.e., fueling .some potential building examples:moon command bunker: a small command bunker that can only be deployed at a moon where there is no pos. has very limited defenses, relatively easily destroyed. gives fleet-style leadership bonuses to friendly ships in combat at the moon. requires sovereignty 1. almost no defensive capabilities.planetary command bunker: a medium sized bunker that must be deployed at a planet. coordinates defensive operations for all moons of that planet. gives more significant, stacking leadership bonuses for any combat at the planet, or at any moon of the planet. requires sovereignty 2. some defensive capabilities.system command bunker: can be anchored anywhere except at a traditionally warpable object  and becomes itself a warpable object . coordinates defensive operations for the system. gives yet more significant, stacking leadership bonuses for any friendly combat in system. requires sovereignty 3. has significant self-defensive capabilities  but far less than a small deathstar pos, for example .industrial communication controllercomes in small, medium, and large, with relevant sovereignty requirements. must be anchored at an asteroid belt. provides mining and other leadership bonuses to pilots at the belt in question. more or less defenseless. maybe larger ones can have very limited refining capabilities.generic combat lookout postcomes in small, medium, and large, perhaps in various flavors of gang bonus  like the leadership skills, or even more specialized / etc . form is a non-warpable anchorable small tower  not a pos tower, more like a lookout  which provides bonuses to any pilot in system. a large collection of them can provide the same bonuses as a decent fleet booster without requiring all pilots to be in a gang. these towers are mostly defenseless, but have to be probed out to be destroyed.etc., etc.linked defensive structuresgeneral theory: each online defensive structure in the system provides a boost to all other online defensive structures in the system, commensurate with the type of structure and difficulty in destroying said structure. pos towers count, but nothing else at a pos does.potential examples:from the above, suppose a systemwide bunker gives a 5% bonus, a planet bunker 3%, a moon bunker 1%, and the varying combat based lookout stations do the same. the bonuses are initially applied to shield resistances up to a max of 50%, and any unused bonuses are applied to shield amount to another maximum of 100%. bonuses are added first, and then applied. more concretely, suppose a system with 4 planetary bunkers, 7 moon bunkers, a system bunker, and 4 medium general combat lookout stations. the resulting shield resistance bonus is  4*3 + 7*1 + 1*5 + 4*3  = 37%. while all structures are online, they all have, in essence, a 37% invulnerability hardener  stacking penalized as appropriate . as structures are destroyed, the resistances on remaining structures drop. while it is possible to simply go right after any pos tower, it is much more efficient, if possible, to destroy the support structures."
"[continued from above]if a total bonus as calculated above exceeds 50%, the remaining bonus is converted to a shield amount bonus. thus, if a total bonus was calculated to be 73%, a 50% across-the-board resistance bonus is applied to all defensive structures  stacking penalized as appropriate , and a further 23% shield amount boost is also applied.when a structure is destroyed, its bonuses are removed from all other structures. thus, the best way to weaken a strong structure is to destroy all the weaker structures. but this step can be bypassed at the penalties of the higher shield resists and/or amounts.i think the results of this system are1  strong, significant bonuses for well-developed defensive positions2  a plethora of meaningful targets for small gangsthe biggest challenges of this system are1  balancing the difficulty of destroying a well-boosted building versus the help it is providing to sovereigns2  balancing the cost/benefit of deploying these structures3  balancing their inherent defensive capabilitiesi don't necessarily think my examples above are the way to go. i'm really just proposing the general theories of lots of new buildings that benefit pilots around them, and the concept of linked structures to decentralize useful points of attack. everything else is example fluff. : edit: heck, i'll support my own idea. : "
"interesting proposal. i expect it to look a lot like parts of kelsin's post a few hours ago once the details are hammered out, but it's definitely a different approach. i'd like to see something along these lines implemented, whatever the details, though."
"i'm in favor of more anchorable structures, but i personally would also like to see some non-combat structures.especially with ambulation coming, i'd like to see habitat modules, casinos, exotic bars, and of course your favorite fast food restaurant:please visit your user settings to re-enable images.if this kind of stuff would be put in a pilot's own deadspace complex, with a locked acceleration gate, would be even better. attackers can destroy the gate to disable access to the structure but not directly access the structure unless they have the required password.utility structures would be things like ore compression stations and repair stations, both very small and having only a few hitpoints so that a single battleship can take them out in 10 minutes or so.i think we should have a lot more stuff floating around in each solar system, and that pilots should be able to live in their own personal structures instead of having to rent rooms at an outpost."
"yes, more stuff in space.and sov could become a adapted version of fw, only that the alliances have to build all the bunkers. the fuel bonus through sov could be transferred to a commodity production with several kinds of facilities, that can be attacked by opposing alliances. could even add a role for system/constellation/region governor to control and oversee the sov complexes like a turn based or real time civilization game.lots of possibilities."
"lol @ mc****** in spacehows about remote repair stations?we've seen them in missions.a remote repair station would work like a station, except with limited cargo space, non-instant repair, could use it to resupply, as well as change modules.how it would be different from a normal pos hanger is:-your ship is still outside, everyone can target it and shoot it.-while parked, you're ship cannot repair, change modules, or activate modules.-like already stated, shield, capacitor, armor, and hull repair takes time and costs isk.-emergency undocks  for example, if you're under fire  roll a 20-sided dice to see which modules get deactivated before undock. :p"
"interesting idea, but i'm skeptical that non-pos anchorable structures can be both balanced and useful.a non-pos structure that gives significant bonuses would have to require fuel to remain balanced. but this would mean that they would either need to have large fuel bays or require frequent refueling visits. once you figure that there might be half a dozen or more of these in a system at once, this gets pretty scary: either there's a huge amount of fuel in storage just sitting around the system, which makes those structures very expensive to lose  especially since these structures, not being at a pos, don't benefit from a pos's defenses , or there's a lot of needlessly tedious frequent refueling trips going on."
"interesting idea, definately : "
"you misunderstand - i'm not talking about changes to poses, since ccp has said that's not happening. i'm talking about changes to corp offices located in npc stations. those aren't destructible - so long as you keep paying your rent, the lines will keep functioning."
"why would i ever keep my pos fueled again?"
"because you can buy a caldari control tower and 15 mobile laboratories for 1.71 billion, and get 15 copying, 45 me, 45 pe, and 75 invention slots. a slightly more complex setup - 3 mobile laboratories and 10 advanced mobile laboratories - will cost you 2.13 billion and net you 33 copying, 29 me, 9 pe, and 35 invention slots. my proposal would net you 40 slots of any one type for a similar price. you would need to spend 2 million lp, worth at least 2 billion isk if you know what to cash out in - more like 3 billion if you're good - and you still have to pay office fees."
"i move that kugu's ban be considered for removal only if he travels to iceland to appeal it.ofcourse, he'd never go there."
"the actions of this one player paved the way to the csm. consider that for a moment.also, consider that the problem still exists, and because of that, many ex-players will not return until their cries for justice and proper oversight are answered."
"free kugu.at least review the ban and then try to justify it."
"he wasn't banned for that. he was banned for giving ccp a hard time. that information on how it went exactly is out there. have a look see yourself.i do agree that posting rl info about people should be banable. but that stuff popped up here several times and not everyone got banned about it and that is 100% wrong.the point is that even though kug is a utter a hole he still deserves to be treated like any other player. every player should be treated exactly the same or otherwise we simply can stop playing because it would be useless anyway."
"from the looks, kug peed into ccp's sunday shoes and got slapped into orbit for it.ccp is perfectly within their right to terminate business relations with individuals they have a justified animosity against.i think there are even legal terms for that, someone more proficient in lawspeak could tell.no support from me, obviously."
"i think you should go to jail, no matter if you committed a crime or not."
"all i will say is that ccp should not be banning people for messing around with other people's forums. that is not their job and trying to arbitrate disputes about which guild infiltrated/hacked/social engineered their way into which other guilds forum is outside their scope."
"ginger magician ... is that you"
"he undermineded the ccp peeps usin illegal ways, wjho cares if he maded ccp etc better, at end of the day he did summit ilegal"
"free hat!wait...free kug!"
"when i was young to the game i face a similar situation. i found another solution even then. now that i'm older and have a fair amount of disposable isk, more options are open to me. someone like you that has been in the game so long should have no problem coming up with the same options. your time in game presents you with more options through your skill level and ability to earn more isk. you can go places a new person could not, you are more valuable and therefore sought after by corporations, both of which provide access to 0.0 for sec recovery. as such your long time in the game has considerable weight in your ability to suicide gank, recover from the same and/or find alternate options for dealing with the problem.we do have an opportunity and those of us who see the current imbalance in suicide ganking mechanics are taking the opportunity.windjammer"
"when discussing game theory it is important to note that real life arguments are unconvincing except insofar as the game desires to exhibit verisimilitude.having said that:meaningless in the context of talking about a game. rephrase and discuss this in terms of playstyle, game choices, and mechanical balance.your example is contradictory because you argue \"crime does not pay\" and that societies that are corrupt falter and fail. yet jita has the highest crime rate in empire with the most illegal murders committed per day. it would seem that in jita crime pays exceptionally well.further, your argument falls flat on its face when presented with empirical evidence. crime is perhaps the most profitable business in the world. it is just that the definition of what is and what is not a crime is often set by the criminals. would you say stealing is criminal? then what about the natural resource thefts from the western hemisphere that fueled the european economy from the 1400's until the 1800's?would you say slavery is criminal? what about war profiteering? accounting fraud? purposefully negotiating contracts over their value or never intending to follow through? a myriad of \"crimes\" can be pointed out where individuals merrily profited throughout their lives.yes, even pirates profited quite well from their actions. so well in fact, that the primary fear was that they would organize and present a threat to established order. fortunately for the european monarchies, pirates tended to work alone and their crews tended to be of the incompetent sort that would get drunk on a beach and not notice an approaching manowar until it was too late.if i mine for 23 hours, assume i make x million isk. i have 0 risk.now i pirate in lowsec for 23 hours, assume i make y million isk. i am risking my ship, my pod, and my security status.if x >= y then a balance needs to be applied to those that mine because they are profiting with no risk while others are risking everything for lesser returns.this is simple game theory."
"avoiding ganks while hauling is trivial. use a scout, fit for tanking and agility, make multiple trips, warp to zero  dont autopilot or afk  and dont undock from jita 4-4 during primetime when your screen will be black for more than the 30 seconds of undock invulnerability you get. id be shocked if you died on more than 1% of your hauling runs if you followed these precautions.as for miners, if i evemail you a proper hulk fitting  hint: ki ans suggestion wasnt very good  will you a  promise not to divulge it and b  publicly retract your statement about how its impossible to protect yourself from jihadists like me? just because you dont understand and cant figure out how to fit a hulk to defeat me doesnt make it impossible.  also, ive never once used a covops for a warpin and it certainly hasnt hurt my stats. "
"this is not to say that there arent any problems with suicide ganking. clearly, industrial ships getting destroyed on the undock without even being scanned is proof that something is wrong. the main problem myself and others have with the proposed solutions is that they reduce the only risk vector most pilots in empire are subject to. l4 missions in empire are very nearly equivalent isk/hour as ratting in a decent truesec system in 0.0 space. jihadswarm is the only thing keeping afk mining from being completely free isk. if you nerf suicide ganking, you indirectly buff these other empire activities that are already overpowered as it is.the question is then, how to fix some of these minor issues of suicide ganking without causing too much backlash? sec status drops for everyone and not just the person getting the final blow will help only a little, but still doesnt do anything about solo ganks. increasing the sec status hit is another option, but the status hit is already pretty severe in terms of time required to recover that sec status so increasing it more than 50% or so over the status quo would start to get incredibly punitive.  and if we changing how sec hits work we really should be talking about how to fix lowsec too removing insurance has side-effects, and honestly i expect this will cause a lot more grief for the average carebear than it ever will for suicide gankers. nevertheless ive been expecting insurance removal to happen eventually for a while now. it does accomplish some things  it makes blind attacks a losing proposition, and substantially improves the freighter situation  but overall im simply not convinced its a great solution. and as ki an pointed out, it will give carebears a false sense of security that will likely offset any reduction in ganking the loss of insurance would cause. the primary fear of gankers is that after this solution proves to be no solution at all, what next? will you come back and whine for even more nerfs to ganking even after getting everything youd asked for? where should the line be drawn?"
"right, i'm sure you spend every minute of that 23 hours paying attention to your eve client."
"ok, lets end this. we can agree to disagree then. i find comfort in that both the csm and ccp share my view though. but to remove any misconceptions, i'll answer a few things. that's because you do not know where to look, and the market is not the answer. it will require an investment, but the total loss  not purchase  will be around 4 million for the bs itself, plus any lost modules of course. this is possible due to the insurance. this is not news to any corp or alliance that has a strong industry. there is simply nothing that prevents suicide gankers to achieve this. so there is my main argument that there is virtually no financial risk what so ever.to clarify then, the financial repercussions are equal to running level 1 !  missions for a weekend or to participate in a single level 4 mission  that would financially suffice for several ganks ."
"ki an, this isn't 5th grade. i know there are exceptions, but mocking people  whether deserved or not  isn't why most of us play this game or even read the forums."
"the argument that it's cheap is bs. it's not cheap, it's cost effective. nerfing suicide ganking for this reason is simply protecting stupid people. the pilots who complain for this reason are pilots who are upset their isk faucet got set back a little bit and they had to reset their macro. how do the game mechanics favor the ganker? someone with low sec status, in an alliance or corp that is flagged for such behavior has to enter local, which with the recent ui add on, sets off an audible alert for all the macro miners, i mean hapless potential victims. then they face the consequences of their actions, their ship gets blown up, and they take a sec status hit. if anything, game mechanics favors the miners, they can just make an intel channel, and get safe long before their ship is in any danger. basically, the whole \"problem\" with suicide gankers comes down to people who don't want to pvp or take reasonable measures to protect themselves yelling at ccp to change the game so they do not have to pvp or take reasonable measures to protect themselves. yet still, ccp feels compelled to protect the vast number of miners in empire, the accounts that make the game profitable for them. nevermind that 0.0, the vaunted \"end-game\" of eve suffers from a risk/reward ratio that makes missioning in empire the best way to make isk for an individual pilot."
"and further ignore that the changes that bring in more players are the changes that make pvp more accessible not less. here's a quick and obvious tip for everyone out there: the percentage of people in the general population that would want to mine and haul while playing eve is very small. the percentage of people that would want to fly spaceships around and shoot each other is exceptionally large.just because eve is currently in a stranglehold by the former does not mean that it should continue catering to their desires. it's my firm belief that if pvp were more accessible then you would see a lot more accounts being made and a lot less alts. it's significantly harder to multibox combat characters then it is to multibox a mining alt, a transportation alt, and a combat character. and i think that the rather anemic step taken by ccp with militia warfare has begun to prove me right in this matter. i'm willing to bet that if ccp had opened the throttle a little more and made pvp a core mechanic of the game rather than a \"something done by people that have been playing for 3 months\" mechanic you would see a marked increase in playerbase.and the entire issue over suicide ganking is just a symptom of the problem with the current game design. ccp wants to have its sandbox industrial and logistics game mixed with its sandbox conquer and combat game. it's been tried over and over again and it really doesn't work."
"the fact your post has nothing to do with suicide ganking aside, i think it is very sweet that you think ccp cares about the players. pvp is extremely accessible, even to the few week old character. just not solo pvp. most alliances have a program to give new pilots free t1 fit frigates so they can make with the tackling immediately. ccp cares about accounts. the game software/servers can barely handle 200 people on grid, yet ccp is wasting time altering game mechanics so the miners can fly through space unmolested."
"pirating is more fun to you than mining otherwise you wouldn't be doing it - this is a game right? and having fun in the game is the point of it? so the risk/reward is a bit irrelevant in this case if you are stacking \"having fun\" vs \"not having fun\". pirating is supposed to be hard - its a hi risk profession for those prepared to go the extra mile and play the game on \"hard mode\". means you are separate from the crowd, a paragon of independant devil-may-care chutzpah and funky combat chic. but to be honest its quite reasonable that making a living is more difficult for pirates than it is for hi-sec mining people - its supposed to be a hard life and not everyone can cut it. if everyone could ... well then, it wouldn't be half as sexy."
"i hope suicide ganking will still be a viable activity after this change...i don't know about increasing the sec hits...grinding back sec is painful...the only problem is that currently, the bar for what is a lucrative suicide gank is set far too low. this is because suiciders can use insured t1 ships. if you remove the insurance for suiciders, the bar for what is lucrative becomes a lot more reasonable, and you have to be flying something truly valuable in a truly carefree fashion to be a target."
"so, is this thread not about suicide ganking anymore? pirating /= suicide ganking.also, pirates don't pirate for the saucy self-image. they pirate because it is profitable."
"nope it just makes it so the suicides pick their targets with more care.when the initial investment is pretty much paid back through insurance on a battleship costing them only maybe 4-6mil to set up a ship again and that can be made while ratting in missions. the miner/hauler looses half the ship's value or more on the insurance, and full loss of the cargo.see the problem, it's easy to say hey i'm out 6 mil but that poor soul is out a couple hundred million.the haulers are at far more monetary risk than than the gankers.failed gank = out a few million, target gains nothing.  quite possibly loses a couple hundred million successful gank = make a couple hundred million, target loses a couple hundred million.so it's still a viable option, you just got to work on picking targets that are worth risking the full price of your ship if the insurance is not paid.it cuts out them shooting empty haulers because they got lazy and don't bother to scan anymore."
"that suicide ganking punishes stupid players that afk haul billions in cardboard boxes through space is not an issue... well, except for the idiots that haul billions in t1 haulers on auto-pilot...that a stupid player can blast every hauler they see and come out ahead is...that a player can haul billions in an untanked t1 hauler and with a few minor precautions and not have to worry much is not an issue, if they still get ganked is not an issue... unless the gank squad is indiscriminately blasting away and just got lucky... but that goes back to the stupid player blasting every hauler they see...that the whole gang in a well planned suicide gank operation make a ton of isk is not an issue, that they all did not take a security hit is... that the per-ship loss is minimal  making the break even line way too low  is an issue...that a player that repeatedly commits criminal acts is able with a few hours or even a couple of days to totally remove the stigma of those acts is an issue... to our goonswarm friends, face it, kartoom, who is credited with over 300 kills, should never be able to enter .5 or higher space without being a target for every pilot with a weapon mounted  the link was furnished above, kartoom has the most jihadswarm kills ...that a miner can watch local and go hide when goonswarm shows up is not an issue... that a miner that started his miners and went off to eat dinner and gets popped is not an issue... that the person who popped him  or her  can be back to do it again in a day or 2  or 3  without the tell tail orange  or red  glow is an issue... that a miner, aligned and tanked, can't jump out in time when a disco-whatever shows up... that another miner can't align because they are being \"bumped\" by a gnat  we all saw anka's mini, imagine her trying to bump an 18 wheeler off a road...  or a swarm of gnats is an issue... and those gnats are left even when \"raid\"  spelled concord  shows up because they did not bother to fire a shot..."
"really quick, there's a sweet irony to a member of goonswarm snidely complaining about thread jacking. : the current furor over suicide ganking is a symptom of ccp's \"big ass sandbox\" design. they started out with a clear, high level concept of \"hey guys! wouldn't it be awesome if you had spaceships and you could fly them around and trade and fight and stuff?! like that old game tradewars, but 3d and stuff! and we could have players participate in the full vertical of ship and space station creation! oh, and should be all corporations and stuff because that's sci-fi punk!\" but some cracks began to show when people actually started using the game. the \"smartbomb plus stargate plus natural trade hub equals gold\" equation if you will.i have no such illusion. ccp cares about its bottom line if it has any sense at all. and right now its bottom line is 80% in empire and 20% not. so anything that makes the 80% happy, of course they're going to do.i would suggest that this is the short view which will do something to attempt to placate the 80% but is a step in the wrong direction financially.assumptions that are extremely valid:most people do not come to a game with 10+ friends.most people have an adjustment period during which they are learning the game.most people have other games, hobbies, past-times, what have you in which theycould be participating rather than the game.most play early in a new player's game-life will be solo play.thus i would argue that the lack of solo pvp is a turn off to a sweeping portion of potential players. a 7 month average account life is a significant amount of churn. especially in a game as small as eve.i know that being a member of goonswarm means you have around 1,000 other people to hang out with, but unless i want to accept the somethingawful forum tax and yield to the culture of the goons i'm stuck with the few i have. most new players would not know which alliances you are referring to. i have not seen any offers to join an alliance and receive free ships and equipment. a few corporations toss out such offers occasionally in local, but who can trust what's a recruitment scam and what's not?perhaps goonswarm is recruiting brand new players who come to eve from various directions not just the somethingawful forums?i agree, ccp is directing much needed energy away from the actual problem to a very small symptom to appease what they see as \"their customer base\". what they have not come to realize is that appeasing your current customers will only keep them around for so long. at some point you have to appeal to new customers or you become stagnant and begin losing accounts.reality check: handling 200+ person fights across the internet requires a significant hardware and software investment. much more so then i would wager ccp can muster with the current playerbase. the reality of network latency, 3d visualization, control processing, data interface latency, redundancy, and security make such large fleet battles as ccp clearly envisions a false pipe dream. i'm not saying that it can't be done, but without significant capital investment in infrastructural concerns both real and intellectual it's just not possible. and significant on the order of blizzard or microsoft."
"kart is -10, and has been for most of his kills. but nice strawman."
"stop and think about what you just said.you just inserted fun into the range of player risk vs. reward. the domain of our equation is risk elements, player actions are a function that map risk to the range of our equation which is reward. to put it a little more rigorously:f = player action acting as a functional transformation.f risk  = rewardwhererisk =  ship, modules, isk, pod, security status, time  reward =  ship, modules, isk, security status, time we could do some more associations here  all things map to time, for example , but this will suffice. what you're attempting to say is that my perception is:mining: f no risk  = isk p/hourpvp: f all risk  = isk p/hourwhere fun makes the following true f no risk  < f all risk  + funthe question i would ask is, what about the players that see:f no risk  + fun > f all risk  ?first, let's go ahead and admit that you can't measure or quantify fun; the proof is trivial and can be found in any philosophical argument that starts and ends in utilitarianism. this includes further ignoring that mining can be a lot of fun assuming you have a second game open that you're playing while you mine. for example, your combat alt that is paid for by the proceeds of your mining.second, what i am saying is that all things being equal  including intangibles like fun  if mining produces more reward per hour then pvp'ing then a balance needs to be applied to mining because the amount of risk associated with mining is significantly less than pvp. in fact, to make this clear:mining risk: ship*, modules*, pod, timemining reward: isk* game structures exist in high security to reduce this risk to negligible.pvp risk: ship*, modules*, pod, security status, timepvp reward: ship, modules, isk* game structures exist in high security to increase this risk to an absolute.since ships and modules can be abstracted as isk, all you have to do is perform the simple calculation of finding total isk over time and you can represent an associative value to compare the two actions. if the isk to be gained from mining significantly outweighs that which can be gained from an equivalent amount of pvp then it is clear that more balance needs to be applied in the direction of mining.what i am saying is that it seems clear to me that mining is significantly more rewarding in game value then pvp'ing when balanced against the risk. and, honestly, i've been polite and haven't even pulled out the balance sheet for trading which looks like this in its pure form:trading risk: isk, timetrading reward: iskand i know for a fact that trading generates buckets more isk for significantly less risk.what i am saying is there should be commiserate reward for such dedication. when you play on hard most games give you better items, expanded access, and exclusive content. pirating limits access and forces me to use less effective  cheaper  items. oh, hey, i can access those angel cartel agents in 0.0. that's great, i guess.being awesome is not a game reward. :  i have no problem if its hard. but the risk needs balance."
"ok, how about you?that kart is at -10 is all well and good, that he can rat in the relative safety of goon space to raise that is where i have a problem...i added a few of the most effective goons to my \"friends\" list and noticed several had positive security ratings... how can this be that pilots claiming to have suicide ganked all these exhumers have security ratings approaching 0? i assume its because the sec hit is not high enough and the work to clear it not onerous enough. understand me here, i have seen 3 suicide gank attempts, all in a matter of a few days a few months back, with the commiserate bragging in local and the threats to move to minmatar space... the most effective was not in goonswarm... he took out 2 barges, an inty and 2 pods in 1 attack... dropped his security level to -6.2 or so... impressive... warp in to 0, fire up the smartbombs, watch the fireworks... concord was already in the area and he still got the kills... i do not know what his security level was prior to the attack.one of the goonswarm attacks a few days earlier left the pilot in his pod... and his pod was still there later after the goonswarm members had long left the system...nothing would have helped in either case, the afk guy was not going to try to run, concord will not react fast enough most of the time, all the attacks will still succeed... it will just cost you a tad bit more  something i doubt you are worried about  for a new ship to lose to concord and it will take you longer to recover the loss of standing  another item i doubt you are all that worried about .if they change the system so all security changes are multiplied by the posted security level of the system then look at all the people that will be hanging out in low sec space because good old safe goonswarm space will not work to recover."
"over 300 replies, less than 30 supporting... less than 10% there...new eden is a cruel universe, keep it that way! it's not hello kitty world online, it's eve online!i need to get on the fecking csm! i stand for pvp, it doesn't look like anyone else on the council stands for that element of the game..."
"i see what your saying arkania and agree totally. however just like you can't quantify fun you can't quantify the risk either because you can get lucky, know the right people, or be damn good and be just fine in low sec/no sec. as you have mentioned you are young to the game and it restricts your abilities to get into the alliances. so right now, you a pvp'er/pirate that is young to the game and things are hard because your skills and experience are lacking in the things you need to meet your goals. welcome to the game. it was made that way intentionally. if you wanted to be a high sec miner you could be doing great right now but if you wanted to be a low sec miner you would still be in the same boat right? what if you wanted to run missions in low sec/no sec? still in the same boat. you can do them yes, but the risk/reward is significantly different for a person with 4 million skill points and a person with 40 million skill points.in this context what happens if ccp significantly reduces your risk and reward? it takes a lot of time often doing boring tasks to make up for losses. yes some are getting vastly wealth in high sec and that needs to be stopped but suicide ganking isn't how you stop it. i believe a lot of people are correct to assume a sizable contingent of the high sec miners are alts mining for other players. since when did ccp reverse their support of multiple accounts? they even offer discounts on occasions to those running multiple accounts. so the fact that a person has alts doing stuff is a non-issue because so can you. there needs to be a fundamental shift in the way that being a player in high sec is approached that increases the risk but until ccp says that they want to completely eliminate the npc corps all our hands are tied.however, in the current form macro miners and afk traders are near impossible to distinguish from regular miners and traders. the reason why is a miner in a roid field is a miner in a roid field, unless those miners are chatting it up in local which i do if i am ever mining then no one knows if i am a macro miner or not except i am in a rohk which is a pretty crappy miner compared to a hulk . i hate mining, i hate salvaging, and i even hate looting my missions. my best friend likes mining, loves salvaging, and picks up the loot because he is already salvaging the mission. should he be punished for activities that make him appear to be an alt? his risk is fairly high because he comes with me on lvl 4's and gives me drone support but he is about as new to the game as you are so his skills are very low. he fly's a dominix but most of his skills are in industry. he cant even use active hardeners so when get gets agro if he gets webbed or jammed its almost always fatal. he is young, his risk is high, his reward is high. as he gets older his risk will not necessarily go down as he may choose to fly more expensive ships with more expensive equipment but his reward may not necessarily go up as it takes two of us to maintain the current income levels. eventually a player will plateau where the risk and reward will level off. this is where the balance needs to be done and its going to be tough if you let players hide in npc corps. fixing this is the problem."
"it's a good thing killmails aren't just a simple text file or you could change the character name before posting it to a killboard."
"ah forgot to add support for:1 - removing the insurance payment when killed by concord2 - all attackers taking the sec hit not just the last blow3 - possible increase in the sec hitiit will still be profitable when there is incentive to actually work hard to pick targets"
"thats because there is a discussion and most of the post are made by the same people. everyone i spoke with so far is enthusiastic about these upcoming changes, and so am i.it's not about turning this into hello kitty online, it's ironing out an imbalance in the game mechanics, which i think is something all of us could agree on. we have plenty of pvp people in the csm, it is a very diverse group, it's just that most if not all of us see that there is a big problem with suicide ganking in it's current form, which needs to be adjusted.no clarifying email so far, by the way."
"i believe that you can quantify risk. it won't be 100% accurate, but that's what a number of game designers try to do is quantify the risk elements of the game and then balance them against character reward. that's pretty much the core of most economic theory and game theory, honestly. sure, you can't with 100% accuracy nail down the risk as a quantity, but i bet you can get a good idea and within the ballpark.and once again, what i'm saying is \"take the platonic ideal of playstyle x and playstyle y. compare their platonic ideal risks and rewards. are they completely out of whack? now take real game examples of x and y. analyze. are they completely out of whack? if so, do something.\"decisions may have resulted in the outcome, but it might not have been intentional.once again, all things being relatively equal. take a combat character with 4 million and stack him against a miner with 4 million, that's fine.i submit that a game that imposes toil to play it has a flaw.this isn't about stopping it so much as weighing the reward for different valid play styles.except that it neuters high sec wars and reduces the viability of logistical strikes against empire targets supporting 0.0 corporations and alliances.the fundamental question then is \"why do it?\" justifications vary, but in the end they often come down to \"so i can do something more fun.\" doesn't this sound like a job? this is a massive tangent.should i be punished for wanting to pvp by having people blow up my ships? it's not punishment, it's balancing the equation in a game with various valid play styles. without risk your friend is gaining reward at a rate above other players. why must we punish those other players by forcing them to play catch up to your friend?that is his risk as applied to a combat mission. he is doubtlessly rewarded for his participation in the combat mission.yes, his risk for a high level combat mission is high, but i suspect the rewards in bounty, items, and salvage are comensurate.i would argue that a proper accounting shows risk decrease with time in combat missions while reward stays more or less equal."
"thanks for the supports. i think a strength of this proposal is that the modular nature of it allows for tweaks to different areas - i'd be happy to incorporate some bigger changes to pos themselves if some good ideas are brainstormed, but i'm also of the opinion that simply shifting some of the focus of territory warfare off of the pos will help lower the bar for entry and make territory warfare itself less of a grind. feel free to give ideas for changes."
"i like the stargate capture mechanic, but as i said about non-pos anchorable structures in another thread: i'm skeptical that non-pos anchorable structures can be both balanced and useful.a non-pos structure that gives significant bonuses would have to require fuel to remain balanced. but this would mean that they would either need to have large fuel bays or require frequent refueling visits. once you figure that there might be half a dozen or more of these in a system at once, this gets pretty scary: either there's a huge amount of fuel in storage just sitting around the system, which makes those structures very expensive to lose  especially since these structures, not being at a pos, don't benefit from a pos's defenses , or there's a lot of needlessly tedious frequent refueling trips going on."
"/signed"
"i could see special storyline missions from doing 16 r&d agent missions. give more people a reason to run missions for the r&d agents."
"from another thread about capital mining ships. thinking about it though why not some ships that can't enter high sec because  insert rp reason here  that has large bonuses to the low end roids. maybe a script for normal mining lasers or a second module that can be set to low-sec or 0.0 only  similar to how cyno fields are blocked in high sec and warp bubbles aren't allowed in low sec . have it only give bonuses to ore found above .5 or above 0.0 so that mining the big veld roids becomes practical in 0.0.it was just a thought i had reading the quote above. allows new ship classes to accomplish a lot without having to redo so much for mining."
"the pilgrim is a broken epic failboat.fix it."
"/signed"
"why doesn't it have the range bonuses like every other recon?"
"i dunno about the options in the op, but the pilgrim needs professional help.i love my curse, but the pilgrim is a joke."
"this thing is still broken?!?!!wtf?"
"i agree that learning skills are a needless time sink and add nothing to the game - they are a tedium now to reduce more tedium later. there is a broad consensus that all players should train them eventually. whenever you do decide to train them  if you know you're in it for the long haul and train them up front, or if you get slowly sucked into the game and train them late , they're just time that's not spent training immediately applicable skills. if they are eliminated, all skills' training time should reflect pilots having all learning skills at level 5. there is already a wide variety of obvious benefits that longtime pilots have by their own choices: more money, better standings, better ships and equipment  including implants , and more skills.eliminating learning skills is a great idea, but very difficult to implement fairly, to compensate older pilots who have foregone other skills to train the learning skills all the way up. so honestly, i don't expect that this is going to go anywhere..."
"ya learning skills are lame and make starting out a boring pain in the ass but i already trained them i don't give a damn about new players so i don't care to see the devs spend time fixing this problem that they could instead spend on something i care about for myself today.personally i didn't even play for the first month on the advice of a friend. i just timecarded the isk for the adv. learning skillbooks and a set of +4 implants and switched skills until the character was ready to have fun with."
"also you're crazy if you think the elimination of learning skills will let you ultimately get to fun skills faster.ccp has the learning skills in the game as a timesink. the point of them is to keep you away from the fun skills for longer, so that you'll subscribe to the game for longer waiting to get to the fun skills. the more time you spend subscribed, the more money you pay ccp.if they eliminate the learning skills, they still won't do anything to help you get to the fun skills any faster."
"yea the older players have no idea. they were given a pass and just skipped them. yes the isk were coming out of our ears then, so ccp implemented the \"bling patch\" and so i am sorry for your suffering.whats a months worth of training any way. you wouldn't mind tossing 1.2 mil sp's away to support this cause would you? i mean it is all for the best isn't it?so thank you for your sage advice. now get off my lawn before i whack you with my cane."
"good point. you and hardin are doing good work on this issue which i very much appreciate, so it's unfair for me to say there are no people who understand about pvp'ing in caldari ships. amend my post to \"sadly i don't think there's a majority of caldari pvp'ers...\"my faith was severely rattled by the off hand manner in which the exhaustively well researched and presented nighthawk issue was dismissed. \"it's ok in pve\"\"it's ok for ships to suck\"\"not worthy of our time, too small an issue\""
"this is why threads that have already been taken up by the csm should be locked."
"ideally locked after posting a link to the minutes where the issue was discussed."
"i think ccps pricing is rediculious they need to get rid of that service pay by cash. im one of the few people who still use cash to pay for games and when i renew my account using their pay by cash thing. its flippin almost 20 bucks because of the charges that pay by cash uses. ccp needs to get a better system running for that."
"so i ask to the csm, please. we beg you, keep pushing this."
"okay, 99% of people are going to hate this and kick off, so i'm already expecting a major flaming for this post... but!since when should capitals  particularly supercapitals  have the ability to cloak? cloaking such a big ship should be impossible, and the capacitor requirements of doing so should be enormous! but no, a titan can still sit 300km off a gate cloaked, and sneak-dd a hostile fleet  hi tcf , then recloak as soon as the dd is finished.so i've thought of a number of possible solutions to this  some would also resolve other issues with people fitting cloaks to every ship they have, as well as sitting cloaked in an enemy system afk for hours :1  base the capacitor use of cloaks on the ships size and/or mass. bigger ships need more capacitor to cloak, and will use a certain amount of capacitor over time. a cruiser sized ship for example will use a medium amount of capacitor, and the drain over time will be minimal, so that in 90% of cruisers, the natural regen will still give you more cap than you're using. a bs sized ship will use a large amount of capacitor, and will slowly drain cap over time  without any capacitor mods . a capital ship will use an enormous amount of capacitor to cloak  think 80% , and will drain a large amount over time  let's say the capital can only stay cloaked for 10 minutes as an example, ie not long enough for the pvp timer to wear off . a super capital will use about 90% of it's cap to cloak, and will only be able to cloak for a few minutes before draining completely. a titan will only be able to cloak up for 1-2 minutes, and will not be able to fire a dd then cloak straight away.2  prevent super-capitals from using cloaks completely.3  add in more penalties for cloaks, for example not being able to fire a dd for 5 minutes after a decloak, or not being able to use fighter drones for 5 minutes after a decloak.4  change the fitting requirements based on size/mass of a ship so for example if you want to cloak your carrier, you don't have the cpu to fit any remote reps, or if you want to cloak your titan, you can't fit a dd. this means you would have to online/offline modules in order to use the cloak, but everything would remain unchanged, essentially just delaying you from decloaking, pressing f1 to dd, and cloaking back up.comparing to other universes, putting a cloak on a titan is like cloaking a borg cube or the deathstar... there's a reason they don't do this! flame on!"
"*had an awesome post typed, and his computer \"forgot\" it*without rewriting all i had... the solution isn't to nerf cloaks. it's to make them \"sized\" or to leave them alone.1  cloaks don't use cap, because they disable every other module onboard. that both reflects the energy need being met, as well as reduces any extra energy output the cloak has to work towards masking.besides, if we have to pay for cloaking, then people would want to be able to fire while cloaked. as it stands now, the payment for cloaking is the lack of combat functions.2  saying they can't be used period isn't fair... unless sized modules were introduced. then you could say \"that one is too small to work for this ship. so fit a larger version\".3  cloaks already have penalties. and the workaround has always been aoe and targetless weapons  drones, fof, etc .4  see \"sized\" above.speaking of the death star... star wars was the setting where they said \"no ship that size has a cloaking device\" which implied that only larger ships could support them.whereas star trek, which has a lot more experience with such technologies... take a look at a size comparison, particularly the gigantic romulan warbird, which can disappear at the drop of a hat. that little speck at the bottom... would be your frigate."
"**** yeah, i love this ****ing idea."
"yes."
"pun intended?"
"i dont know what you mean with small-scal pvp, but if you have a 5 bs gang and you face a 5 man nano gang the nanos dont have a chance. if you lose that battle your doing something horribly wrong. only way nano gangs can beat heavy gangs is to either bring more numbers or to take advantage of errors that the heavy gang does. i think the problem is that you get blobbed by nano gangs and not nanos. if you get swarmed by a nano gang, the result would be the same if they were flying bs. only difference is that you might kill one or two of them, but youll still be outnumbered and lose.if the gang knows what you are flying, where you are and they dont want to fight you, there is no way you can decisivly defeat them. it doesent matter if they are flying nanos or not. if they dont want to fight you cant defeat them. i would suggest baiting them with a gang they will engage as first step in defeating the nano gang.interceptors is faster then nano hacs."
"definitely supported. nanos are the new wcs. the old wcs were nerfed because they let you start fights nearly risk free, secure in the knowledge you could always bug out if things got bad  barring a ridiculous investment in counter ships nanos not only let you start fights nearly risk free, secure in the knowledge you can always bug out if things go bad  barring a ridiculous investment in counter ships  but they also give you a superb tank against most forms of damage, *and* let chase down other ships who might try to leave the engagement. however, any real change to nanos is going to need changes to capital hot dropping and blobs, as right now nanos are the only real alternative. they're still very imbalanced, however. this is evidenced by the fact that their defenders typically deploy arguments such as \"but they cost a lot!\" and \"just use other nano ships to kill them\" or \"driving off a nano ship counts as a win!\" or other nonsensical hurf blurfisms. a few limited changes could be made soon: fix polcyarbons to bring them in line with all other rigs compared to their module equivalent, and fix heavy precision missiles. but i think major changes to nanos  which should be made, as basically if you're not a blob or small nano gang you may as well go home  will involve a bit more thought, and will hopefully include a fix to the terrible mwd/ab relationship."
"i'm mostly posting to mock jade's terrible analogy to horse archers. this is an issue that needs to be addressed because essentially nanos have no drawbacks.that doesn't mean they have no counters or are literally invincible just that you would be an idiot to not fly a nano in the current environment.many other gang types and smaller ship sizes have been completely invalidated because of the overpoweredness of nanos with excellent tank and ability to engage at will and ability to disengage at will.the fact that t2 cruisers are flying around faster than t1 frigates i consider highly poor design and is obsoleting frigates. we need a lot more distance between hulls in terms of speed. wrayeth has made several excellent posts in this thread.the fact remains that anyone who has even the decaying carcass of a single brain cell left in his skull can tell that nanos have been terrible for gang diversity in eve and that nerfing them will be good for diversity and open up more choices for players. however, most nano pilots are very set in their ways and refuse to contemplate having to adapt to flying something other than their imbalanced nano ships."
"agreed!"
"yes please.along with evemail length and forum post length."
"my memorial bio on my bookmark copying alt has been nerfed, most of it lost forever, nothing left to remind me of my glory days of bookmarking entire 0.0 regions, with complete sets of flawless error free bookmarks.....maybe thats a good thing.....on s related note, a longer bio would nice, and longer eve mails would be even better."
"/signed!"
"i hereby endorse this product and/or service."
"up."
"most definitely /signed. it gets truly annoying trying to figure out if someone is a pos hugger and i should just move on, or if that ship on my scanner is actually unoccupied and the person i'm looking for is 20km off my starboard bow in a cloaked recon/black ops.edit: forgot to check the little box of doom."
"ships that aren't under the control of a player shouldn't show up on the scanner period imo. the minimal power usage wouldn't be found by anything short of how-powered probes, or the over view's close range sensors."
"it could be argued that cluttering a system with empty ships to hinder hostile scanning efforts is a valid counter-intelligence tool though. my initial reaction to this is that being able to filter empty ships from occupied ones makes scanning a little too easy, and that if you want to know if a specific ship has been abandoned you should probe it out and get on grid to take a look for yourself."
"that's an interesting argument - have you ever tried to scan out a belt ratter in a hostile system with multiple pos though? i wish i had some screenshots handy but i've actually seen cases where a 360 degree scan does not fit on one screen of the scanner  even expanded . yes you can narrow that scan down but often the moons and belts are close enough together that it's virtually impossible.here is another example, you jump into a system and find a lone ship on the gate. there are 4 hostiles in local but you decide to risk engaging anyway for fun. you open the scanner and hit scan to see if there are any hostiles nearby...but oh look its useless because there is a pos nearby with 17 ships at it.i can come up with other examples too but i'm sure you get the idea : being able to find abandoned ships with the scanner is good, but being able to tell the abandoned from the occupied ones is essential."
"yay!"
"this would most likely result in logged of ships no longer showing up.how would one get the loggofskis than?"
"loggoffskiis ships are still occupied and so detectable.besides it should be a option to ignore unmaned ships."
"nah, it's fine.i'd rather make a mark to see if it occupied, instead of just removing unmanned ships from scanner.or add some options to scanner./approvedcus something must be done"
"yes. /signed, and all that."
"actually, i'm in c9n right now and stain empire have empty ships in poss all over the damn place! it helps to move around the system and incrementally adjust angles and ranges, but yes, it's still difficult to find anything just with the directional scanner in that situation.some things should be difficult though, especially if your opponent has taken time and effort to make it so .again, i think using empty ships to act as decoys is a pretty smart move, and not something that should be disallowed, especially when another means of figuring out which ships are empty and which are occupied  recon probe launcher and warping to look for yourself  already exists."
"make it an option."
"why no jump clone reduction timer with the inclusion of a skill reducing it by 5% or 10%?why ccp? why?24hrs is just bollox and make jump clones totally worthless for what they were meant in the first place  jumping in as reinforcement to a mothership, titan or roqual .they will just still be used only for implant storage."
"thorradin, i absolutely agree with the rest of your post, but the ferox - nighthawk comparison really isn't fair or accurate. the nighthawk is essentially a tech ii drake, not a tech ii ferox. of course, the numbers don't look much better when you compare it to a drake.  shamelessly stolen from earlier in the thread hurricane 1350 --> sleipnir 1460 myrmidon 1175 --> astarte 1450harbinger 1500 --> absolution 1575drake 850 --> nighthawk 710  <---huge decrease wtf? i can see no reason whatsoever why a tech ii ship should lose so much powergrid compared to it's tech i version. moreover, this thread is *full* of excellent work by silence dueugood and gypsio and others comparing the fits and how the nighthawk is weaker due to needing to it way way more fitting mods. that this was so summarily rejected at the csm is quite surprising - it was as if the issue wasn't even really considered at all. i am glad that jade and hardin at least, are on top of the game, and that jade is doing good work trying to keep this issue alive."
"factories on planets that are the only place the bpos for building stuff like mechanical parts and robitics would be nice. it would be kind of interesting to have a terrstiral industry that doesn't affect slots for manufacturing in space."
"well, i posted a similar idea heremaybe the 2 ideas can be combined in something that it will be taken in considerations by the devs."
"all other types of turret have easier fittings on there short range variants.the heavy assault launcher is the only one that is more difficult to fit.here is a comparison.hybrid: blaster v rail , 18% range 55% more dps 10% easier grid fit , 30% easier cpu fitprojectile: arty v autocannon , 17% range 35% more dps 78% easier grid fit , 25% easier cpu fitlaser: pulse v beam , 50% range 14% more dps 19% easier grid fit , 6% easier cpu fitmissile: heavy assault v heavy , 24% range 25% more dps 20% harder grid fit , 11% easier cpu fitclearly this is a mistake.base grid for a heavy assult missile launcher tech i should be 80 grid not 120."
"this is true of all missile launchers. it is a design thing."
"not truerockets are easier to fit than standard missiles while providing more dps.siege are harder to fit than cruise this might also need looking at   if so then thats a discussion for another thread  everything is by design , it does not mean its good design."
"you are both wrong. nevertheless, issue supported. ham's take too much grid to be viable options on most caldari missile boats. it's as though they were designed for amarr only."
"either that or boost the grid on the caldari missile boats : torps aren't too bad really as you do get monster dps in exchange for using them but ham aren't even _that_ impressive for dps."
"hamls already require less cpu than hmls. to make them require less grid as well would be absurd, given their superiority over hmls.if there is a problem, it's do to with caldari pg. the nighthawk unquestionably needs a significant pg buff. the other ships? drake pg is fine, as is onyx - although i don't see the point of putting launchers on an onyx anyway. caracal and cerberus could do with a smidgeon more pg though."
"currently they are 95% useless. you only profit form them if you shoot torpedos on cruiser sized ships but these will die quick anywey without them. target painters need serious rework. make them useful like ecm and damps."
"mmmm, tachys tracking on painted frigates ftw..."
"i suggest that you learn how the tracking formula works, then delete this rubbish."
"then why they are used only on torp ships rarly and nothing else ?:devery pvper is dumb and you pro i suppouse. nanoships got 600% signature and how you hit them ?:d"
"how about we give target painters a bonus, with no stacking penalties, to improve the tracking of all ships shooting at a target!"
"this would be better than this crap signature bonus."
"you missed the smilie. it was there to indicate that is exactly what the effect of a target painter currently is."
"well signature helps tracking but by small margin so its not noticable. it should be direct bonus."
"that is why you were refered to the tracking formula earlier.a 30% increase in your targets signature radius has the exact same effect as a 30% increase in your turrets tracking. the effect is identical.edit: as for you earlier question about nano ships: increasing tracking via signature radius by 6.5x is only going to do so much when the ships speed is increased by 10x."
"the names of the t1 named painters abbreviate to:-pwnpwndpwntand pwnage.that wasn't a mistake or coincidence. in the right hands, in the right situation, painters are absolutely lethal.in general use, they're average.in mission runner hands, they're pretty little icon, like the predators tracking animation, and about as dangerous as a pork sausage.they need no love at all."
"i support this as long as what you mean by \"not allowed\" is that it is made non-beneficial by game mechanics."
"so punish, indirectly, the person who has to go in an emergency and cba to go 10 jumps back to a safe system? no thanks..."
"if you have an emergency in rl, pixelboats should be your very least concern tbqfh."
"but that's not the point really is it?yes an emergency in rl comes first - but then the emergency is over and you want to play pixelboats again and your pixelboat is all blowed up ... not really fair."
"actually it was, the rl emergency issue has always been misused as justification to please not harshen the ctrl-q mechanics."
"i love how this is looked upon as an \"exploit\" and a grevious sin.when there are other arguments taking place elsewhere, about pirates wanting to do anything and everything in their power to force a player into pvp.on one side, players are \"not supposed to run away from a fight\". but on the other, they \"shouldn't be forced into a playstyle\". so which is it?i understand, this tactic is most common at a low sec gate camp, where they knew they were at risk before they jumped. or in low sec belts, where they wish to avoid confrontation while they mine. so basically, it's happening in low sec, where life should be dangerous.but i still think it's amusing that people can cry for blood, and ask for peace, with the same breath.one note however. the idea of \"flagging\" a target.if you fire upon a ship, they are not flagged at all. you are flagged to them. and you can't leave for 15 min. but making a mechanic where you shoot them, and they are bound to finish the fight... is forcing a playstyle. that mechanic would only mean that if i flip your ore, and now you must fight me or die.... because the flag is on you too."
"so, you basically think its ok that not playing the game provides an in game advantage? gotcha. it's because of players with your attitude that this is a sorely needed fix. cheaters should not prosper, and you sir, are one."
"you need to read up on pvp timers. you are sadly misinformed. the timer we are talking about already exists - if a fight starts and someone shoots you  whether you shoot back or not  then you havea 15 minute timer.for the next 15 minutes you stay in space even if you log off...so you can warp/dock/cloak/whatever as normal but you cannot just log.the problem is if someone logs as soon as a hostile appears then they never get that timer triggered and are un-killable."
"every other mmo ever made has solved this issue with a logout timer. the problem is that eve's logout timer implementation is broken. it is broken for 2 reasons:1  you vanish 60 seconds after logging out if you don't have aggro. this is just enough time for a skilled prober who was already looking for you to find you, warp to you, and get off one shot at you before you vanish. this timer needs increased to 2 minutes to account for the time it takes to warp to the target.2  you vanish regardless of the fact that people have caught you and are shooting you. if someone has you locked, you should not vanish, period.the other logout mechanic that every other mmo has but eve lacks is the ability to remain connected while the logout countdown runs so that if someone catches you before you log, you have the chance to defend yourself."
"this has needed fixing for ages. hell, i've even got a thread about this elsewhere.fix logoffski"
"do you always charge into conversations without knowing what you are talking about or is this a new thing for you?"
"not signedthe only defense i got is this.when i jump 2 losec with freiter wat do u expect me 2 do ?fight back??"
"support, /signed, etc..."
"well, i still love you even when you log on me. there are lots of pirates who would cry, like that garmon dude, but i'm not one of them."
"sup garmon, garmonation v coming out soon? keep those vids coming, mate.freighters trade defensive capabilties for the largest cargo hold in the game. jump freighters can just cyno into low sec. using a freighter solo without a scout into low sec is supposed to get you killed. this is eve-online after all, not trader-online. blah blah blah, i'm not feeding your troll alt anymore garmon : "
"get rid of logoffskis! leave the pilot there for 30 seconds in my opinion, and decloak any active cloaks. then emergency warp after 30 seconds, another 30 seconds, and finally a proper log off."
"looks like there is some csm activity again, so i'll bump this one."
"agree'd.like elite missions with high damage spawns, hard to track frigates and cruiser, uber tanked bs spawns, with high gains, something a corp could do together."
"sounds fun, maybe boosting reward for missions when done in a group?not sure how good this is, but whatever."
"this thread is not for discussiong the merits of the different force recons, but rather the one thing they have in common, a fairly useless role bonus.role bonus: * 200-unit reduction in liquid ozone consumption for cynosural field generation * 50% reduction in cynosural field duration. this is a fairly limited bonus.1. it requires a capital ship.2. the ship deploying the cynosural field is vulnrable for some time.fairly limited bonus, and i would say, maybe mostly usefull when cynoing ships in for non combat stuff  jump frieghters? .however, it is a expensive ship, and it is put at risk when deploying the cyno, especially if the cyno goes up close to the enemy fleet, besides, the other force recon bonuses are generally for long range action.now, i would admit that i got limited experience with 0.0 and the use of capitals in fleet, but it is my understanding that recons aren't used that much to cyno ships into combat. if anyone wants to prove me wrong feel free to do so.my suggestion would be to replace the current role bonus with a probing role bonus, kinda like the covert ops have.i would like to see something along the lines of:50% reduction to cpu needed by probe launcher25% reduction to duration/activation time of modules requiring astrometricsthis would make force recons half as good in probing as covert ops ships, and still viable in gang/solo.it would slightly unnerf the arazu and pilgrim and maybe overpower the falcon/rapier as well.any thoughts?"
"it seems just fine to me. force recons get a cocd, so they can get behind enemy lines easily enough, and they can light off a cyno more inexpensively and with significantly less risk due to the reduced cycle time  than any other ship. they're capital-support ships that also get nice ewar bonuses. i'm not sure how good they are at battlefield deployment of capital ships - you probably use ships with more hp to do that - but they're unparalleled at strategic movement. *qualifier: i've never flown a capital ship or a cyno generator. this is second-hand, and may not accurately reflect much of anything. i think i'm right here, but if anyone with more firsthand experience wants to correct me, go for it."
"no. as you say yourself you haven't flown these in 0.0 or suchlike and it shows - the bonus is very useful.the reduction in cycle time massively reduces the risks  if stuck at a safe  and tedium  if stuck at a pos  and the fuel consumption bonus is huge.it's a role bonus as well so it isn't like you are losing a ship bonus to get this one."
"its a nice bonus to have and doesnt need change at all"
"nah. rather add a deep space recon  or something  with a astrometrics bonus instead of a combat or cyno bonus. that should be about the biggest astrometrics ship around, unless the black ops gets a bastard brother."
"i'd rather see the cycle time bonus be a no movement penalty bonus. that would allow the recon to remain safe and not be annoyingly stuck, without reducing the time the enemy has to notice that you have thrown up a cyno and come to investigate, possibly catching the capital that jumped in, but not finding a totally stuck and defenseless recon."
"no one lights a cyno in an expensive ship.it's like ringing a dinner bell to pirates and enemies.and you're stuck there at a warpable object for five minutes.might as well be 5 years.people mostly use ruptures."
"fairly useless for me, but i guess its too much of a integral part of the ship then... i'd rather see a dedicated cyno ship tough tbh."
"its a 'free' role bonus - its not as though its taking up a ship bonus slot  like the assault frig and its resistance bonuses , and being able to light a 'quick' cyno and not needing to restock on ozone each time is extremely useful for getting caps moved around.besides, giving recons the probing bonuses would be a big step towards making covert ops obsolete, whereas at least now there is a niche for covops frigates as greatly superior probers."
"well, for starters, you've got the bonus wrong:\"role bonus: 80% reduction in liquid ozone consumption for cynosural field generation and 50% reduction in cynosural field duration.\"secondly: it's fine. it doesn't detract from these ships at all - they still get the traditional 4 bonuses that a a t2 cruiser gets. being able to cyno stuff around with only 60 lo is very handy. as too, is the ability to not be stuck somewhere for 10 minutes. it's handy if you've a need for it, and completely irrelevant if you don't. so just ignore it, m'kay?about all i would say, is that it might be nice if were a larger reduction in cyno time."
"agreed, which is why i don't want to change them much. i think they're balanced a bit below gallente and minmatar, so i want to give them a small buff. that could happen, but then you either have them tracking so slow they can be hit by turrets easily, or moving so fast that missiles are useless against them. hp has a similar effect without as many odd interactions."
"amarr drones should get a buff to make them the toughest to kill if there not there allready.caldari drones should orbit at much bigger ranges leaving them outside bomb range for there class small/medium/large."
"only working ewar drones are ecm ones other are useless.web drones they count as heavy 5 of these will lower target to 50% speed thx to stacking panelty. one gives -30%. no medium/light ones. if heavy web drones have -60%, medium -40%, light -25% they probably woudld work nice. new light web drones could help vs nano ships.energy neutralizing drones. 2 heavy works like 1 small neutralizer. well its so low amout. 2 ogres/berskers will do job better. if 5 heavy drones would work ilke 1-2 heavy neutralzier people would consider using them.sensor dampening and tracking dmapening droens would be ncie if they werent that stacking panelised, liek they are now.target painters drones well target painting is preaty useless so droens must be to."
"target painter drones work pretty well on torp raven setups. i don't know of anything else where they are very good though but just saying."
"nerf ecm drones to the uselessness of the rest rather than boost the rest.i don't see why, as a gallente, i get to enjoy the benefits of high class ewar on nearly every ship i fly, while others barely get the opportunity to use any ewar at all without taking a specialised ship in the gang."
"/notsignedthere's no true \"fix\" for this issue because you're just going to punish those with bad connections and/or people having a bad day with their isp/traceroute."
"not true.1. add small timer before warp off. i 5 seconds timer for example2. want to log off in space: warp to safe, log by using the normal procedure of ctrl+q or esc+quit. timer is small enough to not allow to be scanned or warp in on top3. game disconnects: no timer is applied4. aggression mechanics remain as they are with no additional timerabout point 2: a  warp into a camp b  jump into a campc  stay in belt untill pirates warp on top of youd  similar situations of this typein these cases quitting the game in panic by pressing ctrl+q will trigger the timer, thus allwoing for the enemy to target you and scramble.about point 3:people can fake disconnects, but in pvp, it is realistic to say people will not jump on the desk to unplug the cable. the simple fact of moving yourself form the game/pc to unplug or turn off your modem gives enough time to the attackers to target and scrabmle you.  exceptions do apply but please consider the reduced number what this can not fix: people ratting in systems and logging off when an enemy gang jumps in. but this is not a direct pvp situation. direct pvp situations will be fixed by this small timer or at least this is a step forward."
"the router for my computer is by my feet. it would take me 5 seconds to lean down and pull out the power supply. people who are prepared to cheat using crtl q will just set up another way to do it.i think a 5 second delay before warping off sounds ok - but there is a bigger problem  litterally .it can take a carrier or mothership 2 minutes to get into warp. they can be probed out in 20 seconds. if shooting them triggered the 15 minute timer you would never be able to log off in one again.i suggest either that if you log while cloaked you would just sit under cloak for 2 minutes then log  rather than decloaking and warping . or:when you log/ctrl q/disconnect/whatever there is a 10 second delay.during that time you start to emergency warp  decloak from gate cloak etc  and if you are attacked it starts the 15 minute timer.once the 10 seconds is up then you are 'logged off' and the current mechanics go on as now.the other thing i would like to see fixed is the 'multi relog' thing - where you log off. then log on, then off, then on again.you will end up at an insta-safe 10k km from where you first logged. instead the re-login should remember the destination of the emergency warp it was in and immediately send you back to the same place."
"s<U+FFFD>!"
"at the moment i fly a marauder in missions among other things , which means i have salvaging and killing both going on at the same time. in so doing, i've been constantly annoyed by the fact that wrecks don't show any information about their tracking, their radial velocity, or  in situations with multiple people looting a room , velocity. i want to be able to see at a glance if the can is being tractored, whether i'm getting closer to it or farther from it, and while tracking is very rarely useful, i imagine there's some situations where loot gets shot in pvp to make it worth the time to have it show up. similarly, all other objects on overview that are on grid should have the same stats - i don't think anyone cares about how fast a stargate 14 au away is tracking, but if it's possible to interact with it other than via warp, then it should be possible to see all the information relevant to doing so. some people may not like this, because it makes it harder to tell apart targets and wrecks, and as such this should probably be made an option rather than a forced change. that said, it should be an option, because i can't imagine i'm the only one who would use it."
"i run missions in groups, this would help speed up our cleaning up efforts."
"100% totally support this idea. this needs to be addressed."
"edit due to beerthats not it.caod is  has become, loooong ago  the place for 0.0 warfare/politics/propaganda.fw is not 0.0 warfare/politics/propaganda.caod is also comprised of 90% alt/**** posting  im gulity of a few, no alt tho , and we do not need any additions to it.what im saying is that fw needs its own forum as there is no relationship between 0.0 and fw.i am not saying fw sucks or anything.i am saying  and alot of others  that we, 0.0 entitys just do not give a fsck about fw.  generalization ftw "
"i like you, i'll hit you up ingame.if i can't login now i'll try when sober, if i remembero/\o"
"actually i was talking about my hobby of crushing ****ty empire alliances with mercenaries, i believe there are numerouls lulz threads about it.ps. you are a spineless coward hiding behind an alt whos opinion matters for moot, and i really dont understand this new cow fetish tbh, it failed sure, but the truly pathetic fail happened long after a war left, either way, post on your main and perhaps you will be taken seriously, and maybe i can show you in person what i meant with what i wrote above."
"the only reason i actually participate in fw is the fact that there are no \"leaders\". no one cares in fw - i mean seriously no one cares cause their is nothing to lose except ones own ship. your faction loses the war - who cares? no one really loses anything - fw is a place for noobs to learn what pvp is like without the threat of \"omfg cta now or you get kicked from alliance rawr!!!!\" and those of us who have been in 0.0 done mission *****ing, shot miners in low sec and just need something new. sure fw loses alot of the appeal after the 101st gate camp - but hell its still better then some jk arse crying cause no one showed up for the planned defence gang or alliance mining op.id say leave it be for now."
"fairly accurate i guess. trying to create an effective \"alliance\" out of fw corps/players would only be an exercise in futility. fw is a cool idea, but was always going to lose its shine for older, more experienced players. the sheer number of noobs and egos was always going to make sure of that. having said that, it is also a great avenue for budding pvpers to learn the craft.to the op - once it was moved to here the thread's fate was sealed. stop crying and whining and organise your own gangs and teams and just do it.*edited ps:*one word of advice is to stay away from the noob gate camps and set yourselves realistic goals and focus your efforts on these - it might just pay off."
"lmao"
"fix'd..over nine thousand!!!"
"oshi-i salute you, good sir."
"caod quality thread"
"highlighted the parts i found particularly interesting. fw was supposed to be designed as a training ground/ bridge to pvp and 0.0 and its succeeding at that. raw nublets are being trained up and are becoming quite skilled. sure there are still alot of lolfits and ****ty comms discipline on some ops, but ive been on worse in 0.0. ive also seen quite a few alts of 0.0 chars recruiting from fw militias  well at least thats whats going on in the fdu secondly the idea that you represent all of 0.0 is laughable, or that there is even a consensus of \"0.0 people\" or for that matter, that caod forum warriors represents said consensus. the fact that so many people i know from 0.0 corps are in fw now clearly conflicts with the idea that people dont care about it. maybe you dont, but thats something else entirely.i agree with you that fw needs its own seperate forum though. not because \"fw has nothing to do with 0.0- the 'real eve'\" but because i would hate to see people get turned off getting involved in arguably the best expansion/direction ccp has taken eve because of all the ****posts/smacktards in caod."
"as an 'older, more experienced player' i can say i have never had more fun playing eve. my rl does not allow for alliance crap atm, so i log on, go solo or join a small gang, and combat is never more than a few jumps away. there are a lot of vets who lub combat, but don't have the rl time to do so, fw is the ultimate vehicle to do so. noob's, yeah, there are all in big-assed fleets learning the ropes. the vets are out there having fun in one on one. i have been in seven? alliances  even a few good ones , and none compare to the fun-level fw offers.athon"
"i guess factional warfare is awsome for those who doesn't enjoy pos warfare"
"not as simple as that - originally npc 0.0 was meant to be that bridge, and tbh it meets it admirably still - syndicate is just a crapload of fun - by and large without pos warfare as well.its just horses for courses i guess."
"factional warfare more like fictional warfare, where's the fun in following some random fc at risk of losing your ships all over a bunch of fluff written by ccp?"
"*snip* posting with an unidentified character and characters in npc corporations in this forum is prohibited. if you wish to participate in the discussions here, be sure to have your corporation and or alliance status ticked in your forum settings. ~saint"
"oh right... so a corp that war decs you just coz they can is a good reason to die have a think about the \"fluff\" that is dribbling from your mouth"
"ja it's conscious choice made by a group of corporate pirates not a conflict invented by the game makers- you know.. the opposite to player politics and immersion, of which had previously made eve so unique and unlike any other games."
"in the agregate i can say, thats a crock of ****. the only ones successful in fw are the ones who had any idea what they were doing before fw. fw serves to turn new players or lifelong carebears onto pvp and make them seek out ways to get better, because they certainly aren't going to recieve any quality instruction in the laggy cluster**** that is the current iteration of fw."
"caldari milita is full of stupid carebears.... its 1000000000 times worse to get them to work together than to herd cats"
"undo please"
"wow. i tho't coad poaster ovens were allergic to non-coad stuff. shouldn't everyone be screaming \"i'm meeeelting!\" and siraltsalots complaining of redrashandhiveswarmfederations?edit: to add moderator-be-gone, i will now insert text relevant to the op. hi. i don't like fw. but that's okay. you have fun with your pew-pew."
"*snip* posting with an unidentified character and characters in npc corporations in this forum is prohibited. if you wish to participate in the discussions here, be sure to have your corporation and or alliance status ticked in your forum settings. ~saint"
"what tactics do you need?follow the minmatar example - beat the **** out of your enemies, and when they run to highsec for a few days to lick their wounds, take their systems.repeat as necessary.ps: ccp, your forum filter fails hard ."
"first of all, has anyone done a barrel roll?secondly this thread needs more desu desu desu desu desu desu.third, i am an fc, and will be running small suicide gangs. fit cheap, obey my orders, and we will kill stuff. you will die, we will go out again.  yes i run fleets just like angelonico, however i wont call you a ****ot if you screw up or otherwise **** me off. ill just order the fleet to primary you, and send you home in a pod instead. im open to participating wherever i can in militia, time allowing. we dont need leadership like a 0,0 alliance with the mandatory ops, but we do need leadership in order to have coordination."
"less forum poasting and moar undocking from squids and slave fondlers please. move your ships to the designated kerplosion areas"
"i have only been in a single fleet so far thanks to being too lazy to log in these days, but it was awesome.a rag tag pile of **** caldari fleet jump 6 jumps and a rag tag bunch of **** gallente/minny fleet warp to our gate and the fight begins.minutes later the field is full of the corpses of few month old char's and their civilian fitted rifters.flying in mobs is far more entertaining than flying with any form of structure. anyway, what you are suggesting is totally pointless unless you have the entire militia join a bunch of corps. adding structure to what is essentially a mob of alts and new players is a job that is beyond the reach of anyone in eve imo.if you want to make an impact then get into a corp with about 20 motivated people and you could probably do more damage in a shorter time than you could if you tried to organise this lot."
"try advertising this to the fellow militia corps. you should get the ceos to join a channel or mailing list, announcing specific ops, and where to meet, ship types, etc. have everyone grouped up in certain squads, things like sniper squads, tacklers, electronic warfare, etc. make use of eve voice, require it for your fleet  we all know everyone has it... . i imagine organizing such a large group of people would be a nightmare, but if you can advertise this better to the militia, you might gain support. the only thing you will gain from caod is a headache because people here are not capable of providing information and support."
"sorry to say but forming up a fleet for 3 and 1/2 hours and watching your corpies get ganked by star fraction wasent fun for me at all, neither was the part when one of your corpies was begging people in the militia for a free raven because he didnt wanna risk losing his domi.anyways the taco fleets are kinda cool just just a suggestion, form up the fleets quicker and tell your corp mate to leave begging for free ships and mods for corp chat. and stop the recruitemnt spam in militia.darth"
"clearly a bob alt!"
"*snip* posting with an unidentified character and characters in npc corporations in this forum is prohibited. if you wish to participate in the discussions here, be sure to have your corporation and or alliance status ticked in your forum settings. ~saint"
"you'll never be able to impose organization  even your bad version thereof  on a random collection of people with no stake in what you're selling. you can by force of will, beat it into some people for a little while, but beyond that, you are shouting in the wind.if you actually want to be successful, form your own corporation, recruit the people you met in fw that were enjoyable, and build a group that fights together and cares about itself. treating fw like an alliance is like signing up to join the biggest cr*ppiest alliance you've ever experienced. i can't think why you'd have wanted to do that before fw, i can't see why you'd want to now."
"for someone who loathes 0.0 alliance politics, pos warfare, and needing to clear a 2 hour chunk of time just to pvp, fw is wonderful. i'm enjoying it so far- no need to form up a blob to do something, no fc pitching a fit about participation, no 30 jumps just to not find a target. it's great for someone who likes to fight, doesn't have the time to travel halfway across the galaxy for a target, and can get low sec pvp in without having a sec status hit or requiring sentry-tanking.it's kinda nice having a war with lots of targets, no station-camping  that i've seen , and a nice mix of engagements./me waves at an old enemy posting above"
"adding leadership to fw will never work for 3 reasons:1-leaders have no actual control over the fw blocks. they can't kick or demote or remove roles from anyone.2-leaders have no control over the quality of players in their group. fw is automatically the lowest common denominator of the worst pilots available.3-fw groups have no ability to build infrastructure or claim space or build supercapitals as alliances can.quality leaders are near impossible to find even when those qualities are met. why would leaders flock to the opportunity to be impotent and herd cats? sounds like a job made of suck to me."
"first off, i know, i'm being bad by posting here. we try to stay off this forum as much as possible.second. seems people do want a fleet instead of a blob. i remember all the ridicule that idea got. people claiming there was no difference. well, there is a huge difference and the effects can clearly be seen in these fw battles.the rest of our leadership might shoot me for this, but the only way you are going to end up with a fleet is by putting some work in ahead of time.i am normally against revealing anything that the uni teaches to outsiders, but i think i will in this one instance. it's not like all the spies we're riddled with cannot find it out anyway. so if you really want a fleet and not a blob...it's going to take effort on the part of the would be leaders to make it happen. i believe even with a pick up gang, you can use this information to form an organized group, as opposed to a budged up mob.a few more details on the sc/wc part.wc - has the wing commander skill, when called for, would put wc# into alliance/militia. #=the skill level. this lets the fc know how many squads that wing commander can pass bonuses to. sc - squad commander - in militia cases, i would simply call for people with leadership 5, to ensure they can pass bonuses to a full squad.this has been a gift to eve online from eve university. enjoy.silentbrickfleet admiralivy league"
"qft.op has no idea about strategy, or hierarchy.move along, nothing to see."
"wrong-o.if you and pilot b are engaged in pvp, and pilot a blows up pilot b's ship, and pilot c comes along and loots pilot b's wreck, he is not flagged to you whatsoever.so, by that statement, if we were to attribute the same rules to mission runners killing npc rats  see: consistency  then if someone entered the mission deadspace and looted the wrecks, you would not get aggro on them, either.want it to change in that respect? it's a sound argument, if we're basing things on commonality."
"if someone entered the mission deadspace and looted the wrecks you will get aggro on them. only if they salvage the wrecks you have created by shooting the npc ships you do not get aggro on them.  see: inconsistency "
"thank you for making my argument for me.  obviously, you didn't see what i was saying, and thus, provided more proof to my statement. bravo. "
"it can't be theft if it doesn't belong to you. i'm really not sure how many ways to say this, unlike loot, wrecks do not belong to you. if ccp changes this  which seems unlikely  then you can call it theft. but just because you want it to be theft, that doesn't mean it is."
"i just fixed your incorrect accusation and you do have a lot of them in almost in every post you make about ninja salvaging. since you keep yapping about consistency you should know what inconsistency means and when there is inconsistency it should be fixed. those two actions above need to both be aggro flagged or there would be inconsistency."
"nerf whiners \0/"
"this, tbh."
"huh? if whiney noobs will get learning skills removed i'll demand five month worth of skillpoints reimbursed, doh!"
"funny"
"this."
"i'm not so much in favor of that. for one thing, i think more time will be spent arguing whether something is or is not the exact same change and whether or not genuinely new information has become available that would be spent on a straight up or down vote. if it truly is a recycled issue that was convincingly voted down last time by an informed csm, then it should take a few seconds to deal with it the same way the second time. but more importantly, there have been multiple issues i felt the csm didn't give anywhere near appropriate attention to, but simply dismissed out of hand as not impacting their own playstyle much. the nighthawk pg and larger exploration hull vessels come to mind. i am very much against those issues not being able to be raised again simply because a majority of the csm couldn't be bothered to educate themselves on the issues at hand."
"i remember seeing a csm answer on this too - maybe it was on the shc forums?"
"the dread is fine, the citadel torps need looking into"
"i'm amazed there isnt an automated, in-game killboard.the game already knows who loses or kills what, why is there not an in-game bord that displays minimal intel like this?"
"o7 pitboss,from your original post......any chance you could remove the \"if it is just salvage\" part? i think it's confused more than a few people who are thinking that your request has something to do with salvage aggro.just a question from an interested party, for obvious reasons."
"support"
"this. i just wanted to add some thoughts.i know i don't represent the regular eve player  i'm more than 30 years old, with a family and lots of obligations, and i'm a casual player . i also know that ccp has always wanted people to do pvp, that that's the \"soul\" of the game. not having a queue has only brought frustration to achieve that.i feel that i can't catch more experienced players. that i will never have the skills to do proper pvp.eve is a complex game, it takes a lot of time to understant it, it takes a lot of time to know what you want to do, and how to do it. and it takes time to reach a reasonable level to do what you want to do. i'd like to develop my character in order to have fun, to do pvp, to go to 0.0. but you don't do that so easily, or fast. you need time and experience. and a good level that takes time to achieve.i don't have much time to play. sometimes i can sit behind the pc when my kid is sleeping and play a little. sometimes i can sacrifice a couple of hours of a weekend to play eve. i try to play when i have a chance. but it's really obnoxious to be forced to turn the pc on and enter the game just to change a skill. and if i don't do that i will end up with big learning gaps, falling behind the other players, feeling unable to reach that pvp goal i have set to myself.a queue will be very nice, but i believe that escalating just one skill from lvl 1 to lvl 5 will be enough. i don't know why we, casual players, are being punished so hard for not having time to connect that often. that only leads to frustration and that feeling that pvp is very far, that you'll never be able to play the game as intended.i'll keep playing the game, trying to do my best, but without some kind of help  be it a queue or the ability to lear a skill to lvl 5 straight  i think i'll be a carebear for a very long time. and that's not what i wanted to do in eve, and i don't think ccp wants that either.just my two cents."
"yes give us a skill queue. the only limit i see that would be important is to have skills stop training after 24 hours to a week after a subscription hasn't been paid. afaik you can set some of those crazy long skills and come back in two months and have them train the whole time.what i really want to see is all characters on my account skill train. but of course you ccp  like me paying for 3 accounts to actually have 3 viable characters. any other mmo you have multiple character slots that aren't gimped because you can only level one of them."
"i like this idea."
"i would do rank 3, and decrease by 10% per level. for the total of 50% at l5, or 12 hrs. still anything that decreases jc time is good. i support it. i think 24 is a bit long, not to mention the standings needed to get the damned thing in the first place."
"not needed. i'll make use of jump clones as they are available, but i don't particularly like the gameplay they encourage. pre-jump clone, implants were a long term investment and you had to think about which were best suited to your gameplay.decreasing the timer between jumps would only promote hopping between different hardwiring sets for different ships, and would further reduce pvp risk by making it easier for people to jump into a low value clone temporarily."
"..."
"+ signed for a 12h duration.critical to any kind of 0.0/empire coordination not involving alts. imho, the less alts, the better."
"i'm in favor of a skill to decrease cool-down after jump clones.i'm not in favor of a skill to increase the jump clone count. but that's not what is being proposed here. : "
"not sure the specifics should be nailed down yet, but i support the general idea, a way to reduce your jump clone turn around."
"what's the point of having it as a skill - why not just reduce the time it takes to jump clone to something sensable like 12 - 18 hr's.there's no point in having a skill for the sake of having another skills to learn."
"i agree with this completely. there is no real call for such a long duration between.for one thing, this story from the chronicles... makes reference to the main character attending a meeting in the morning, then surfing in the afternoon, and having dinner that evening... all in different locations. that's at least 3 jc hops in a single day, not counting where he was before the meeting or after dinner.i really don't think we need to justify having a shorter timer with yet another skill. it wouldn't be \"an option some people could take\"... it would be \"here's what else you need for a jump clone\".for ideas like this, i always keep one thing in mind. \"people don't want variety... they want the best\".as for more jump clones... how many sets of implants do you need!?"
"comon guys, vote this! we really need more people to make ccp realise jump clones now are just implant storage devices and not actually being used as intended. we need at least something that reduces the jump time up to 50%."
"supporting with even more time modifier per level. at lvl 5 it should be around 1 hour between jumps. this is one of the many \"slow down\" feature of eve that i dislike."
"signed"
"signed here"
"nope, you can still accept contracts for wars. the mechanics are being changed due to misues of the systems.you will have a period of time while folks adapt to them."
"nerfing mercs will only increase suicide ganks/smart bombings because thats the only way people will be able to deal with a corp thief or someone bothering them."
"it's not a nerf by adding terms, if would actually help a merc.if your contract is do x amount of damage to corp 1, or cost them that much isk in paying off the contract.then you declare war with the terms set to x amount of damage or payoff, and can set it so your wardec terminates if you take y amount of damage  based off your contract you still get to play merc, and declare war on corporations."
"i think another option would be to add a bulk transport class ship.instead of a the deep space transport's tank it has a cargo bonus.take an interon v hull for instance, and increase the cargo base by 2x normal. keep the slot layout and allow both the industrial and transports skills to apply to cargo bonuses  std 5% per lvl, but 10% per level for transports skill.. would really give an incentive to train up the transports skills so using the interon as an example: 12000m3 base cargogal. industrial v = +25% = 15000 m3transports v = +50% more = 22500 m3with 5 cargo expanders: 75811.22 m3 + pair of t1 cargo rigs: 100260.34m3 if i did my math right "
"what's needed most is a ship that's more mobile and less expensive than a freighter, can carry more than a standard dst rigged/modded out to it's max, and features enough options to not require four empire-specific models just to complicate life. -on par with the speed and agility of an exhumer-holds exactly 1 cargo container  120m3 -warps at 2au/s -features a slot configuration of 1/0/1 for a cloak and wcs or istab. priced at 250m, this would be a welcome addition to the small-to-medium industrial/trade segment."
"i still think that invention should slowly catch up or even surpass t2 bpos. but that could be a long process.my suggestion would be that ccp modify the data interfaces. let them slowly 'get better' through use, thus enabling dedicated industrial players who were never fortunate enough to get a t2 bpo or who started after the lottery had already ended to eventually catch up.or in practical terms, what would happen if interfaces had a some chance  say 1%  of getting an improvement after each succesful invention attempt. for example, they could get a +1 bonus to the me or the pe of every subsequent invention. or a +1% successchance, or a +10% to the number of runs that an invention attempt produces. over a long period of time, and at considerable cost, the interfaces would get better and better, eventually ending up equal to bpos."
"well, i think one of the main problems at the moment is that invention may have reduced a lot of the profits on t2 ships for t2 producers, but they have also caused a huge increase in the price of moonminerals. partially of course is that due to higher demand because of lower prices. but another big element is that invention, with its low me consumes far more t2 components than a t2 bpo. which also makes it impossible for inventors to ever compete with t2 bpo holders on price. that is something one could call unfair, since invention, certainly for individual players can be quite costly and risky  what if you fail 25 hulk invention jobs in a row?  is thus a lot less profitable than the moneyprinting machine that quite a few bpos still are, which dont have the associated risk of failing a lot of inventionjobs in a row."
"to get industrialists out of high-sec, there has to be appreciable benefits for doing their business in lowsec. one idea i'd tossed around is to allow for named t1 bpcs to be dropped from officers in lowsec, that may only be assembled in lowsec stations/poses. this would correspond with a reduction in named t1 loot being dropped by rats in non-zero space.this would also provide a boost to the courier industry, as more of the components would need to be shipped out of lowsec and delivered to major trade hubs. to contrast, it could also increase the economy of lowsec, as more traffic is drawn to stations where the named mods are being manufactured and sold at a lower cost due to a reduction in shipping risks. moving manufacturing to lowsec could also invert the current market hierarchy, since market hubs typically offer much lower prices due to volume and competition, while lowsec systems are known for price gouging due to increased risk."
"the biggest problem with 1400mm arties in a fleet fight is it's ammo capactiy.once the lag monster shows up you don't get to reload anymore, therefore your 12 rounds of tremor l per gun are all you get to shoot at the enemy. a buff up to 24 rounds with a slight increase in cycle time to keep dps the same would be very beneficial."
"i agree that they should be looked at. however, i would be surprised if ccp agree to boost their alpha strike significantly considering oveur's past stance that the importance of alpha strike had to be degraded."
"is there a sub-cap insta-damage strong alpha ship?support lowering rof and raise damage to compensate. trade some of the weakness for extra strength in the alpha.  also softens the clip issue, but really shouldn't matter to an alpha-strike boat against raising rof. rof is about dps, and this issue is related to the 1400mm arty losing its place in the sun, not needing to be the best piece of long-range weaponry for fleet slugfest.support damage increase in general. increased damage helps with dps, but mainly is about increasing the alpha.support giving maelstrom a damage bonus instead of a rof bonus, making it fit its racial turrets strong points better.tempest or maelstrom should be able to out-alpha an abaddon. as it stands, they can't, and the paladin actually takes the bs crown, but doubt it would get used this way.in order for mini's to be good hit-and-run attackers, they need their alpha strike capability. fit them with inertia stabs, polycarbs, cloaks, and sensor boosters. they can't survive any time in the overview at all, but would have the capability to hit-and-run against superior numbers, which would go a long way to providing a tactical solution for a smaller force to attack a larger fleet."
"i read back through the hp increase thread. oveur's stance was essentially that longer combat is more interesting and reducing the ability to alpha down another ship is a solution to insta-gank combat, which was horridly in favor of the attacker.this was before the 25% hp buff and damage mod stacking penalties had been implemented. while, i can understand oveur's stance that ships shouldn't be getting alpha-ganked on the grounds that it essentially avoids engaging in any real sense of the word in favor of a complete hit-and-run attack that leaves no options to the defender, i must point out other qualities of alpha-gank combat:while sufficient firepower to alpha-gank can allow an attacker to destroy one target and repeatedly re-engage, always with the advantage of high alpha-strike, the fact remains that they must re-engage repeatedly to continue scoring victories, meaning that the defender has not chosen to flee while the attacker disengaged.in addition, while the mechanics of alpha-gank lead to quick victories over lone targets with no chance for a flat-footed defender to respond, when outnumbered by enough ships to be alpha-ganked, the case is usually that they were completely screwed to begin with. alpha-strike or not they didn't have a prayer.furthermore, the alpha-gank maneuver, being balanced against lower dps after the first volley, is a combat tactic that can only work by repeatedly re-engaging, even at the fleet level, making it absolutely unfavorable for a fleet focused on strong alpha-strike ships to remain engaged and providing opportunities for escape. high dps gangs are for overview domination combat, where you desire to stay engaged as much as possible, fully aware that the enemy will fall behind quickly and become routed.the obvious balance inherent in mechanics and strategy is that a fleet for protecting cap-ships will focus on dps since they do not have the capability to disengage quickly, whereas a fleet that is not fielding cap-ships  a non sovereignty changing fleet  would be better served to focus on alpha-strike capability and mobility.high-alpha gangs  which by nature of the size of alpha's required have a maximum number of ships in a unit that can contribute  can be a workable strategy even with inferior numbers and will also function well with separate units in your fleet instead of one huge blob.in conclusion, because of the stance of ccp that the hp buff would make battle more interesting, and since ccp has so far left alpha-strikes in a state of under-balance, they must in fact believe that large dps gangs, which must operate as a single large blob unit, engage continuously, favor the deployment of capital fleets, and attempt to dominate the overview, are in fact more interesting than splitting up and using tactical maneuvers that require more thought than \"be bigger than my enemy.\"i have to ask a single rhetorical question summing up the most obvious contradiction in ccp's stance: if the alpha-strike was supposed to be nerfed to make combat more interesting, why is it that there is a ship in this game whose sole combat role is to deliver an alpha-strike powerful enough to wipe out every ship on overview with less than 75k ehp?i rest my case.i'll reiterate. i support a strong buff of the artillery as an alpha-strike weapon. with no stacking bonuses on damage mods anymore, it needs a large damage buff to pull ahead of other weapon systems. the trade-off is lower dps through slower rof and a consequential need to re-engage to remain tactically favorable, forcing artillery users, namely the minmitar bs's  .....of course?  to act as hit-and-run fighters. i think it entirely appropriate in this game and the behavior to be expected of the race that was supposed to have fought a rebellion against a technologically and militarily superior empire.<U+7D42><U+308F><U+308A>"
"/signedmore prime fiction = better."
"+1is there anything in the novel? amazon is taking ages to deliver it..."
"i am new to the game and i am also fairly new at rp but i agree that there needs to be more background on the third bloodlines. for instance, my character is an achur. so i went to the saisio system to have a look at the planets... well, not one of them can support human life. so if the achurs hail from there, they must have lived in domed cities and space stations. wich means, they originated from elsewhere in the first place./signed"
"that changes the mechanics of it, but it doesn't change my objection. you don't need interbus to protect you from theft, this is the purpose of collateral. if you want to make courier contracts be interbus missions and give standing, and then have an option for the paranoid to put a minimum interbus standing on their courier, i'm fine with that in principle though i wonder how it'd interact with the npc agents interbus has . but there should be no forced limits on people doing couriers - i don't want people being barred from accepting my contract, when they have the ability to carry it out, just because they're lacking npc standings. i don't care if they're -10 to every corp in the game, i want them to either get my stuff moved or pay me the collateral and i don't much care which . also, what happens if it was an officer mod worth over a billion? what if i want to entrust a titan bpo to a courier contract? put down 63b, and i'll let you carry it for me gladly. deliver it, or i buy a new one and come out a half-billion ahead - no skin off my back. i don't need interbus to protect me, the collateral section is already there."
"so, we're agreed that we'd like to see more functionality in the contract system.hearing your arguements concerning the manditory collateral caps has convinced me that that part of the idea wasn't such a good idea so that can be quietly dropped. i do like the idea of the contract creator being able to set a minimum interbus standing to accept his contract.so for this idea:-pros- you know precicely what you're hauling so can easily determine if the collateral set is reasonable for the cargo.- anonimity protects both parties in the contract, hauler has no idea who he's hauling for, contractor has no idea as to who's accepted the contract.- would make it much quicker for setting up large contracts with multiple items to multiple destinations.- would allow people a way to build up faction standings with interbus with a knock on effect with derived standings, something people have been asking for as a way of digging their characters out of a standings pit with various factions.cons- would require a major overhaul of the contract system, these aren't simple changes.- scams would be harder to pull off as it would be easier to spot them.- would only really work for courier contracts, other parts of the contract system would need their own fixes."
"this is a great idea...."
"sure, as long as you make it so that i can have my evemail autoforward to my real email, and my real email mail people in game. without truncation or loss of formatting, that is. either that or you could just give us a real mail client in-game and save everybody the trouble."
"definitely support this.the eve-mail client badly needs some upgrading in both functionality and its interface. something equal to a basic late last century e-mail client would suffice."
"brilliant ideas in this thread."
"not in favor of combat structures, but some utility structures that can be stashed in safespots would be fun. live the ninja life.largest barrier to deep-space life is maintaining offline presence. gaining this offline presence currently requires having an outpost, which is a huge asset that can be acquired 100% with catastrophic loss to the builder, who also then loses their deep-space offline presence and has to retreat to empire or a nearby npc station if there is one.i would like to see something like mini-storage floating around in space. just something where you can dock up a ship or two. has a cloaking garage door opener. a bit of storage. just a hermit hut for 0.0. requires you to mine some ice from time to time to keep you busy if you're lazy.of course this would change the face of warfare, so it won't happen what we really need to see is individually rental space at stations where the station owner can kick someone out and charge impound baseprice fees on their loot if they're being ******ed towards the sovereign alliance. it gets put into a divided special container attached to the station, a bit like throwing it out in the front yard, where they can pick it up when they pay the fee.simple way to have access to 0.0 on conditions of not being a trouble maker. simple way for stations to make money in 0.0 from keeping high populations, not to mention the increased market activity. simple way to have lots of friends in 0.0 without the security issues of having them in alliance."
"kug gets banned, yet ccp employee does not get fired. bunch of preacks. free kug !"
"something must urgently be done against macrominers/signed"
"i ran them because they are a very fast way to get storyline agents. and storylines are the only ones that grant faction boosts. you can get a decent ship loaded with several missions all in a nearby area and run 5-6 couriers in about 20 minutes with good luck."
"absolutely, but name me a game that doesnt. you wouldnt be here if it existed. you keep talking risk vs reward but what about time and effort? fun isnt math, not for everyone. you keep trying to quantify it with math well run the numbers on minmatar arty, minmatar and caldari ships, and missiles. they all suck. everyone knows they suck. the devs, the pirates, the carebears, and even the low secers. you know why they are not being changed? because people come here and ***** about every change ever made to the game without caring what the consequences are for the entire population base. its their way or the highway 99% of the time. the few people that have rational arguments always get drummed out by stupid crap like 300 comments, 30 supporting votes, 10%, hello kitty online. thats not an argument thats just another person griping because you cant argue back. this is absolutely about stopping it. half of the detractors here use alt mining to support .0 corps without being war-decable as an excuse to have suicide ganking be so easy. there should always be a risk of pvp in eve and it shouldnt be a pain in the neck, but it is so if you dont like it go play pew pew with the other pvpers or get ccp to fix the source of the problem. only if they are in a safe npc corp, fix that and you fix the problem. suicide ganking will still be too easy and will probably be easier than actually war decing a valid target as it is. wanting to pvp doesnt get your ship blown up, pvping in a way ccp has deemed in appropriate to the growth of its customer base does. youre the one that chooses to do it. if its not paying do something else. just because you want to gank people 23/7 and make a fortune doing it doesnt mean its going to happen. there are people who like hack and slash games and then there are people who like first person shooters. the people who play first person shooter games get laughed out of the game by the devs and the community alike when they want a chaingun for their lvl 36 palidin. people who want a sword are almost always welcome in first person shooter games because bringing a sword to a gun fight rarely works out for the swinger. youre asking for something that not outside the realm of the game is outside the realm of the intent of the game. ganking easy targets is what you want or else you wouldnt be here discussing this. as i said, he cant do it alone, but dont let that stand in your way."
"your argument would make sense if you never did mission that were any harder. which he can do lvl 1s forever if thats what he wants to do. in fact i could do lvl 3s without a fear in the world except a gank and make a fortune compared to how well i can mine. i am way under selling my time, skill, and money that i have invested in skills, ships, modules, and experience though. the risk reward in your equasion means that because i can infinitely run lvl 3s and makes 5 or so million an hour you should be able to pvp and make the same. well i bet you can, in fact i bet you can make way more than that. the difference is you would have to be pvping sure fire wins every single time. then you would have to be salvaging their wrecks and looting their cans to make your cash remember i dont do this in missions . the problem is you choose to do something inherently riskier that you are not capable of doing at the same level i am capable of doing my stuff at and want an equal reward. all things being equal 4 months into a game your going to be running 3s solo and making less than 5 mil an hour unless your salvaging, and looting. a pirate can have a suicide rigged ship 4 months into the game and make way more than 5 mill an hour if he picks his targets right because if insurance. missions get pretty tricky unless your willing to risk a setup with mods worth more than your ship because my corps m8s have been ganked for having an x-large gisti x type shield booster installed in a raven with everything else being tech ii. why? because even 10 battleships getting nailed by concord would be a drop in the bucket compared to looting that module, because of insurance. risk vs reward is dead on if you pick your targets. just because there isnt a ton of people out their worth killing to you doesnt mean there isnt a ton of people out there worth killing, they just might take more effort than you are willing to give."
"it does not protect stupid people. if insurance payouts would be removed, it would protect people with less than ~100 million in cargo. today people get ganked if they have stuff above 10 million. or is it stupid to exit jita 4-4 with anything above 10m in cargo? because we are not only talking about hauling stuff afk here.stupid people would still be ganked, just as long as they carry stupid amounts of valuable cargo in their hold. the same desired targets as always."
"but they would have to work and scan the targets rather than shooting anything that looks promising"
"this thread is still no more than people discussing the best way to fight symptoms.the root cause is the ability to stay in an npc corp to avoid the war declaration mechanic, and with no real penalty, and it is that which is unbalanced.when that situation is addressed, then i'll be all in favour of a big nerf to suicide ganking. doing anything before that only skews the game balance further towards those who abuse the \"free\" protection meant for newer players."
"so what happens when all of them form 1 man corporations then? you can target one, but that leaves the others operating just fine. people would be wasting isk trying to catch them all with wardecs... for no actual success.if they wanted to, they would make the war mutual and leave an alt holding it open while forming a new corp for the main. costing you more isk in the long run for future wardecs  or locking a corps limited wardecs "
"chess.enjoyment of an activity can be done even if it has flaws. for example, i enjoy spicy food, but my body has a natural flaw that makes it almost intolerable. and yet i find myself chewing through the pain. similarly, i like spaceships and shooting things and i just chew through the annoyances.when you design a game you make game decisions. and you hope the players have fun. some decisions sound like good ideas until put into play. some decisions sound like terrible ideas until put into play. that's the reality and it's okay as long as you keep an open mind to refine your game. and risk vs. reward isn't the only game theory model out there, but it's fairly good one that can help you analyze a game and find obvious flaws. what i'm saying is that there seems to be an obvious and overwhelming imbalance of rvr in eve right now. it's not intractable, but it should be looked at.first, i really don't see suicide ganking as affecting the playerbase so much as affecting a small number of extremely wealthy individuals.second, when you attempt to support multiple playstyles but segregate them the players will eventually push on the wall and find a way over it.third, eve online does not have much in the way of support for pvp that doesn't require n > 10 people. and that seems to have been a design choice, but i would submit it was a poor design choice and ccp should look at the n < 10 pvp arena. once again, militias are a great half or quarter step. if it didn't irrevocably wreck your faction with 2 of the other empires then it would be a great half step.the primary problem with war dec'ing in empire is that the targets inevitably go to ground and there is no way to eliminate their ability to do so.it's a definite risk! what i'm saying is that considering the risk of getting your ship blown up while actively pursuing pvp is roughly 100% versus the risk while mining is roughly, let's say significantly less than 50%, pvp'ers are not being rewarded enough for their admittedly hard work.but i'm having fun! ;  and it does pay, just not as well as staring at a rock for hours on end with an alt. or station camping market.more like [1,4]/5.tangentially, i like playing paladins. divine imperative clarifies moral choice. : you don't play a lot of halo, do you?i don't see that. i see reactionary changes that have moved the intent.but he can feasibly do it every time with 1 other person. and i don't let it stand in my way. just wish there were more options to exercise."
"in the context of the quote, which you missed, he was talking about a new player doing level 4 missions with him and how his reward never increases. what i was stating is the obvious assertion that while level 4 missions are risky for a new player, over time his risk will actually decrease and his relative reward will increase. this is trivially true.edit: i think i need some sleep."
"i'd just like to throw a grenade out and point out that i regularly undock from jita 4-4 with more than 10 million in my hold. way more. of course i do it in a battleship.* : * has just become a target."
"don't think this is the right thread to discuss this, but avon has got it right, so i'll do that all the same.of course, to nerf npc corps you would have to nerf corp hopping as well  to oblivion preferrably . eve is a game revolving around pvp, and for people to be able to \"opt out\" of pvp makes no sense at all. suicide ganking is mainly just what avon described: a symptom of a much greater problem. ccp needs to nerf npc corps badly and corp hopping  to avoid war decs  would need to be either removed or a bannable offense. then suicide ganking could be removed entirelly for all i care."
"hardly solves the problem.it just makes the whine about a ton of one man corporations, at which point there will be screams for a minimum number of members within x days or the corp gets disbanded.because it leaves you needing an alliance and large pockets to wardec the 20man group of 1person corps mining in an empire system someone claims as theirs.it wouldn't solve anything, it just gives people far far more targets to worry about and complain over."
"you've used a lot of words in an attempt to compare can flipping to mining. what does this have to do with suicide ganking? additionally, i've heard a very different story from can flippers regarding their isk/hour income. perhaps you're not doing it right?that argument aside, you're not calculating fun into the equation. this is a quantitative/qualitative analysis we're doing here. you can't just go by how much isk/hour you're making and how much isk/hour you expend doing what you're doing. how much fun do you have hunting for and flipping cans versus how much fun someone mining is having. ever try mining? it's not as exciting as you might imagine. certainly not as exciting and fun as flipping cans. i'm sure that's why you choose to flip cans rather than spend hours mining.windjammer"
"i have, on several occasions, posted how npc corps should be redesigned, and it is a far more useful way to approach suicide ganking, along with a host of other balance issues.this, however, is not the thread for it.the whole problem with this thread is that it does not look at the whole problem - and thus it is doomed to fail to find a complete and balanced solution.i expect that from the majority of the community, but i am somewhat surprised that some members of the csm actually seem to encourage patching the symptoms rather than looking to cure the root cause of this and other related issues."
"while i am still amazed that players can somehow tie this issue to npc corps, when every hauler i've seen go down in the last 3 weeks or so have been in pc corps."
"security status hits won't affect gankers. wallet hits will.i fully support the removal of insurance payouts to ships targetted by concord as the simplest, most elegant, and most logical solution to the current issue. it's a deterrent without being a bar, it doesn't reward the target for being unlucky, and it realigns the risk/reward balance to something more appropriate.if the mechanic is simply ships killed by concord, then it opens the loophole of a cooperating corp wardeccing the gankers and popping them before concord gets the last shot in."
"but all those haulers are still vulnerable if  in an extreme example  suicide ganking was totally removed, whereas those in npc corps would be invulnerable.whilst the hyperbole of the example is clear, it also serves to clarify the bounding of the balance issue.suicide attacks can not be balanced whilst the underlying mechanics of conflict in empire space remain unchanged."
"no, people are demanding that suicide ganking be made harder because it is currently too easy and does not carry penalties sufficient to disuade extremely casual suicide ganking. making the penalties stiffer will not eliminate or even touch the rate of serious suicide ganking. for the purpose of this discussion i define serious suicide ganking as that which aims to gain billions or deny an enemy billions in assets. whether your a suicide attempt is made upon a mission runner with a ship containing billions of faction modules or of a freighter containing billions in ships and modules destined for your enemy, it's serious. casually blowing up everything that comes along without scanning it or blowing up any ice miner you catch is not serious, it's casual and only pursued because it's so easy and also because the practitioners take their pay in whines from the victims as well as in isk.where do you get this \"infinite reward versus zero risk\"? it's only infinite reward for miners if the miner in question is immortal. i'm almost sure there are no immortals in the game. while time is infinite, the amount we have as mortals is not.zero risk? if you define risk as containing a significant amount of uncertainty, then yes. a miner knows what he/she is losing. there's no uncertainty about it. if they go mining, they are going to lose time. further, they know that time will be spent in a relatively boring activity. this is payment for what they gain and most would argue it's a heavy payment to make.it might also be argued that a suicide ganker has zero risk since that individual has no uncertainty regarding what they're going to lose.a suicide ganker currently wins no matter what the outcome of his/her attempt. they do what they do not just for isk, but for the fun they gain from doing it. this is their quantitative/qualitative reward. right now what they pay for their reward is unbalanced.windjammer"
"is there a thread here asking to change/nerf/modify npc corps? i will be more then happy to support it because in a way, i suspect you are right...but here is where the issue runs afoul of that, suicide ganks are not limited to ships in npc corps, or in fact by pilots in npc corps... are the \"invulnerable\" npc corps an issue? yes, very much so, but they are not the only problem here and while perhaps somewhat related, not the issue at hand.the bias toward the ganker has made it an issue that ccp has come to recognize, corp, alliance or what ever do not change that... but the npc corp issue means suicide ganking must be preserved... the cost of suicide ganking the alt of a war target is part of the cost of that war... suicide ganking for profit should require enough work to make the profit  i have to figure out how much it cost me to build something before i put it up for sale and point at all the profit i did not really make ."
"again, your equation is incomplete because you ignore qualitative issues when running the risk versus reward calculation. moreover, you completely ignore the payment/reward calculation.risk is not just about isk and the potential for losing it. you must also acknowledge time and the quality of the time that can be lost. i.e. how much fun per unit of time you're having......or not having.reward is not just about how many isk/hour you gain from a given activity. it is also about the quality of fun you're gaining. fun is not subject to a quantitative analysis, but it most certainly is subject to a qualitative one.what you pay for what you gain is the bottom line. in your 23 hour example; who gained more in terms of total isk+fun? your choice of career in eve answers that question. at least from your point of view.the purpose of ccp's plan is to get a bit of equality back into the situation and get suiciders to pay something more commensurate with what they gain..........also what they cost others.windjammer"
"i agree with the body of what you say here, as i did already in the quote of me you've used. the only place we disagree is in the percentage. i think your estimate is exagerated though i don't think by that much as long as we restrict ourselves to the specific context of haulers and freighters in high sec situations.one of the thins which affects your stastic is the practice of suiciding haulers, etc. which are not carrying valuable cargo. this is done for laughs. it's also done in places like jita through use of hit or miss tactics instead of scanning a target for an informed suicide attempt. sometimes what they suicide is a hit  valuable cargo  and sometimes it's a miss  empty cargohold . penalties being what they currently are, this is not an unprofitable practice. it's one of the reasons that balance in suicide ganking is being pursued.no. i honor my word and will not give it in a situation where i either have no intention of keeping it or lack information as to what i'm giving it on or for.do not evemail me your fit. a i will divulge it. even if it is practical to implement. b the best you could hope for from me would be a partial and/or conditional retraction. since i'm giving you that below, you would gain nothing.in my quote i said, \"there is no way for an active miner......\" what i should have said, was \"there is no practical way for an active miner.....\" i've taken care in previous posts to include the concept of practical solutions and for some reason forgot to include it in the post you've quoted.even though you, yourself, may not use the cov op alt ploy in your suicide ganking, we both know some of your collegues do and there's nothing stopping you or any other suicider from doing the same.windjammer"
"so, on the aggregate it's basically impossible for can flipping to be more profitable than mining. why do i say it's impossible? consider the hypothetical:miner a mines for time t in seconds. he always jetcan mines. assume that the time it takes him to mine a full hull is n seconds  s . the time it takes him to mine a full jetcan is o s. the time it takes him to haul a full hull is p s. the time it takes for him to haul a jetcan is q s. the reward for a hull's worth of ore is a ore and the reward for a jetcan's worth is b ore. f a  and f b  transform ore to isk. assume rats are not fought and his time is optimized.for an investment of n + o + p + q he gets a reward of a + b. his reward per unit of time is  f  a+b ore / n+o+p+q s .now, assume i come along and i always can flip this miner when his can is full. assume the times are the same, no combat occurs, and i steal all of his jetcan'ed ore. then we get an investment of n+o+q with a reward of a+b. my reward per unit of time is  f  b ore isk/ n+o+q s . the miner's is n+o+p+q with a reward of a. so over time  f  a ore isk/ n+o+p s . assume b = 6a, ore is mined in linear time so o=6n, and ore is hauled in linear time and q = 3p. assume n=900s  15 minutes  and p=300s  5 minutes  so n=3p.then f  6a ore isk/ 24p s for me and f  a ore isk/ 22p s for the miner. f x  is linear, so f 6a  = 6f a  so 6f a isk/24ps and f a isk/22ps which gives 0.25f a isk/ps versus 0.0454545f a isk/ps so the flipper gets about 5.5 times the reward the miner does in this  perfect for the pirate  hypothetical.now, reality states that few if any miners will continue mining to a full can after being can flipped. so our miner returns and sets to mining, only this time he doesn't can mine. so he gets f a isk/4ps - so 0.25f a isk/p - and the pirate gets 0isk/3ps - he has to wait until the miner's hull is full to see if he can mines. so now we look at total average over two cycles which for the miner is 2f a isk/26ps versus 6f a isk/27ps - 0.07692f a isk/ps and 0.22222f a isk/ps. assume the miner comes back for a third cycle and i wait. now the balance is 3f a isk/30ps versus 6f a isk/30ps. 10% versus 20%.do you see what's happening? assuming that a pirate flies up and steals a completely full jetcan he gets an instantaneous reward of 6f a  at a cost of 24ps and he is now aggress'd to the victim and the victim's corporation. however, as time passes the thief acquires no further reward for his time and the balance shifts to the miner over the aggregate.so the question becomes, how many hull mining cycles does it take to equal 1 full can flip? with the assumptions above, roughly 6. so this means i have to steal 1 full can every 7 mining cycles to be equivalent to a target. that means 1 full can every 8400 seconds or the equivalent of 1 full can every 2.3 hours.maybe i'm the worst can thief in history, but i get 1 full can every 2-5 game days  between 1 and 4 hours per game day . and i visit between 10 and 20 systems a game day looking for cans. i even have a database showing where i hit, who, and for how much ore/isk.the risk a miner takes for his 6 loads of ore? effectively 0. the risk i take: aggressing myself to one or more individuals and losing my ship.it seems a little off.there's a much larger discussion contained within that statement. suffice to say, i am focusing on the economics of action to avoid muddying the waters of the much larger issue that lies behind suicide ganking."
"we aren't talking about removing their ability to be suicided. if that was the question, i wouldn't support it.we are talking about raising the bar on the cost so that you actually have to chose your targets based on information rather than knowing that you will hit the jackpot. pc/npc corp doesn't fit into that equation as both are suffering equally from this \"tactic\".i disagree. empire space is supposed to be the most \"civilized\" area of space where trade abounds. it is supposed to be canted more towards the peaceful. otherwise ccp would not have faster response times in higher security for concord, security hits for \"breaking the law\", etc. they have allowed those play-styles for the fun and variety, but they have also curtailed it. high security is supposed to be just that; considerably safer. right now it is not, especially for the weakest parts of the game that have no ability to fight back.what we are asking for is that the attackers be required to hit specific targets, not just spray ammo around knowing that enough will drop out of exploding ships eventually to cover their losses. we are asking that the attacker be required to hit that armored car in front of 7-11 to make money, not just shoot every person that walks out of the door once every 15 minutes, knowing that if the person has a $20 in their wallet they break even."
"i'm glad you see some of the problems with suicide ganking. these problems are why balance is being implemented.the planned solutions will not reduce the risk vector for valid suicide gank targets. it will reduce casual suiciding of targets of no particular importance. if you scan a hauler/freighter with billions? you're still going after it. the planned changes won't stop that or even have a significant impact upon its frequency. the same can be said for mission runners who pimp their ride, typically a caldari navy raven, with billion isk faction modules. you telling me you're suddenly going to pass on those because you won't get insurance money or you take a harder sec hit? the profit in terms of giggles and raw isk is too great to pass up. if you find an enemy mining operation and are determined to stop them for purposes of logistics? well you're going to bite the bullet and take one for the ole goon team, aren't you.your suggestion that \"jihad\"swarm is cleaning up eve of macro, or afk miners, is ......... interesting. you guys don't bother to determine the afk or active status of your targets. in fact based upon available evidence, you fellows take your pay in the grief you cause others. kind of hard to cause a macro grief. suicide ganking of macroers is, at best, a tactic with limited success rate. it doesn't stop the macroer, they're just back the next day or next hour. the very best of the suicide ganking of macroers occurs when more than one ship is taken out at one time and even then the previously mentioned situation prevails. the most success you can hope for is that the macroer will move to another system.windjammer"
"i don't believe the planned balance actions will have any backlash. i beleive you even said it would only encourage you to continue. perhaps it was another suicider who stated that in this thread.i can't see how the planned actions will cause any grief for carebears or even such as i, a bear. in point of fact they will alleviate some of our grief. for instance, as you point out, it will diminish blind attacks.as far as giving carebears a false sense of security? come on, man. you're really worried about that? of course not. in any case as i've said before, those people silly enough to feel a false sense of security deserve to lose. this we both agree upon.while i truly enjoy the fear of suicide gankers and even more their whines........no whine like the whine of a suicider when a suicider whines his whine......, i don't think their fears are justified. of course you're going to get whines from those that are suicided and/or ganked. doesn't matter what the situation is. the credibility of their complaint must be examined. the line you ask be drawn is drawn at the point of credibilty and validity.high sec is not supposed to be absolutely safe, but it is supposed to be safer. high sec dwellers have a right to believe that things like concord and sec hits will provide some kind of deterrent to so called criminals. simply put, that deterrence is currently insufficient to the task and therefore needs the planned balance.windjammer"
"well thought out idea, i like it : "
"thumbs up."
"i think this idea is great"
"this is getting closer, but i still couldn't get behind this exact plan. some of the problems i have with it:most of the stargate-based bonuses are lost too easily by the defender to timezone games, because the contested state provides no bonus. the only empire that will ever enjoy those bonuses is one with no enemies.the idea talks about \"layers\", but nothing like an empire border is described here. the idea doesn't address the porousness of sov-holder's borders. even if a defender has control of a stargate, for example, that doesn't at all inhibit enemy aggressors from using it to enter the defender's territory. we could at least get something like gate guns that side with the entity who has captured the gate.noone who lives in conq 0.0 is seriously going to go for jump bridge endpoints and cynobeacons being out in empty space away from pos shields. really the entire \"middle layer\" as presented doesn't feel right to me. the progression from the stargate level to the tactical structure level is done poorly; as presented you can skip taking stargates almost entirely  only capturing one  and move a bs fleet in to take out, say, the cynojammer. and in fact that's what everone would do: take down the cynojammer, move caps in to own the system, then capture the remaining stargates in that system.the idea doesn't really distribute out the objectives to prevent blobbing. there will still be blobs to defend/assault tactical structures  everyone will put all their tactical structures in the same place to make them blob-defensible  and there will still be blobs to defend/assault pos. you added the stargates as an objective that can be captured by many small groups in parallel but they're th least meaningful objective to take. and, you only have to take one stargate to begin assaulting the tactical structures...and the best way to take one target is with a big blob of ships all on that target.so at best you've given an objective of little strategic significance for small gangs/small ships to accomplish in sov warfare, and added an extra step that will require blobbing. i'm not really on board.edit: we need an idea where the game mechanics intrinsically discourage blobbing at every single step step and where there is something strategically useful for frigates/cruisers/battleships to do at every step.edit 2: i really don't like how easy it is for casual harassment to take down jump bridges. that part of the change starts to get into discouraging people to live in 0.0 period. under this system jbs would pretty much always be down due to casual harrasment.think carefully about how hard you want to make life for people who live in 0.0. i can see that the stargate aspects of this proposal will result in a significant contraction in the size of the current 0.0 empires, and that would be a good thing. but territory cannot become so difficult, time-consuming, or tedious  time-zone games  to defend that it becomes very difficult to hold enough conq space to make living that space worthwhile for the number of people needed to defend it.for example, if it takes a population of 50 guys/night just to keep up the jump bridges, pos bonuses, etc in a constellation, but the constellation can only really provide enough income  belts, complexes, moons  to support 30 guys, then that's a problem."
"good points. i think many of these can be addressed in the details -this depends on which bonus we're talking about. the first fuel efficiency bonus  the 25% one  is here based on the total of captured and/or contested gates in the entire constellation - so an attacker needs to engage in a serious extended campaign of stargate neutralization to eliminate this bonus, and the defender has to actually cede control of a majority of the stargates in the constellation to lose it. the extra 5% is easier to knock off as you said, because it is based on captured in-system stargate totals only - but if that proves unfair we can change it.likewise the control tower invulnerability is based on constellation-wide totals, and while an attacker could potentially contest more than half the stargate in a constellation during a defender's offtime, it can be balanced to require a coordinated force of a certain size operating in small groups simultaneously across the constellation. we just have to determine how long it takes to capture/contest a gate and what the minimum ships to do it are, and compare that to the number of gates they'd need to take during off-peak hours.some fixes for this could include putting the bridge and cyno field themselves inside a pos but have them require some kind of \"beacon\" module that are out on their own and subject to attack.as for skipping past the stargate capture phase - maybe the best thing to do is to put tactical structure invulnerability as a constellation-wide effect, just like the fuel efficiency. then you'd have to first attack a majority of the stargates in the constellation before you move in to a specific system to begin picking apart it's tactical structures.i think maybe the answer here is to make the tactical structures themselves distributed - at least for the cynojammer. to jam a system could require 3 active cynojammers somewhere in the system  some minimum distance from one another  and allow a maximum of 5 anchored cynojammers total - so a wise defender would keep 5 cynojammer modules in system and an attacker would need to take out 3 of the 5 in order to eliminate the jamming effect."
"maybe then all bonuses should be based on totaling captured and contested gates, so casual harassment doesn't knock out defender advantages, but consistent and continous neutralization and capture of defender stargates by an attacker would.as far as population support, ideally i'd want it to be balanced so that defenders have to patrol and recap stargates about as much as attackers are harassing/attacking. in other words it will only take 50 guys/night to maintain if there are about 50 enemies/night roaming your territory. and we can balance it so that it is maybe a tad easier for the defender because of home field advantage, even if it's just because they have access to jump bridges to get from place to place.but i would like to hear more about how many people a constellation can support income-wise and how that can play into this."
"not perfect, but damn good. i've been trying to come up with a new sovereignty system ever since fw came out and this is better than anything i've come up with."
"thanks for the responses; you described some reasonable improvements. regarding skipping stargate assaults to attack tactical structures, i think that requiring a constellation-level stargate assault is too much in the defender's favor. i think the right balance falls more on the side of requiring all of the stargates in the system where the tactical structure lies to either be in the contested state or be captured by the attacker. it's a balance-point in the system that can be tweaked.and another concern:even without bringing timezone differences into this, i think that stargate assault gangs conducting sov warfare  not just looking for good fights  will probably focus on undefended stargates, avoiding patrols, etc. so two suggestions:first, assaulting a gate should require a *commitment*. it should not be easy to stop the process of assaulting a gate the moment that resistance arrives and flee. i'm thinking about how assaulting a pos with dreads requires a ten-minute commitment  putting them into siege mode  or how popping a cyno requires a commitment. if someone shows up to defend a gate you are attemting to contest, you should have to fight them at least for awhile.second, i would like some mechanism whereby the members of an organization who have captured gates can tune into a channel that broadcasts alerts about assaults on their gates. then if the defenders move quickly enough they can force a fight with those who attack their stargates."
"this could be achieved by something as simple as giving stargates a certain amount of pos style powergrid and cpu  for example 200kmw as a maximum and without the pos structure resistance bonus .then you can anchor a disrupter or a couple of guns at the gate - which are not enough to threaten even a small gang but will harass gate camps and warp scramble one of the attackers. if hostiles are just flying through they have time to warp off before the scrambler catches them unless flying something really slow .200kmw would allow a few warp scramblers or one disrupter + maybe on gun to be fielded, nothing massive but enough to slow attackers down. as a downside though that is then assets in space that can be destroyed - and they don't have the pos structure bonus to stop people doing so."
"an alliance who is strong in one regional timezone will have to daily repair the damage done in 2-3 other regional timezones when none of them are playing. think of say a russion sov holder who every day has to repair the damage done by european, us, and australian roaming gangs, just to use their jump bridges. probably none of those enemies are coordinated or even really waging sov warfare. they're typically just going to be guys who are disappointed that they didn't get a fight while roaming or camping a gate and decided to contest a few stargates just for the hell of it. and they'll often be guys who are based out of lowsec or empire and don't hold any conquerable space themselves so you can't even retaliate.that just doesn't sound fun.i don't have a better idea yet.edit: possibly the solution is to require some consumable resource for contesting a stargate, analogous to lo for popping a cyno or stront for dreads. so, if someone is going to contest a stargate, they have to have at least planned ahead and brought the resource, and they have to have paid something to acquire the resource in the first place. this way contesting a stargate isn't something you would typically do just on a lark to mess with someone because \"why not, it doesn't cost us anything\". it will make the act more...premeditated and intentional."
"okay i think i have some ideas for these:1  the act of a gang interfacing with a gate to contest, capture or re-capture it can disable the warp drive of the ships involved. this way if they are interrupted mid-capture, they have to disengage and wait for the warp drive to come back online.2  the incursion alarm was something i figured would be included with the network security node tactical structure - so you could fly out and interface with it to monitor the stargate network and see if anything is up.3  also, as far as the 3:1 time zone difference, i think we can balance that just by having a difference in the time it takes to contest vs. the time it takes to recapture a contested gate. like if it takes 30 minutes to contest a gate but only 15 minutes to recapture it, that helps the defending alliance out a bit in that regard."
"was thinking of something like the following rough idea:the \"contest stargate\" action has to be performed by four ships positioned no more than 50km from the gate simultaneously for 10 minutes before it succeeds. during that time, none of the ships performing that action can move more than 50 km from the gate, or they blow up. any extra ships along to support the four ships that are actually doing the \"contest stargate\" action can do whatever they want.so, if defenders come, those four ships can fight or spidertank or whatever within 50 km of the gate until they finish the \"contest stargate\" action, then they can leave. their buddies can leave anytime, or stay and fight. but at least something worth some isk is committed to remaining near the gate for at least 10 minutes if you want to contest the gate.and maybe make the \"contest stargate\" action require a specific module that can only be fitted on ships that are worth a damn to keep people from using alpha clones in noob frigates to do the risky part."
"sounds good. i think that with some dev refinement a plan along the lines of the one discussed in this thread could be fun.i especially like the general mechanism for avoiding blobbing of having a distributed set of multiple attack points for a single structure. for example, to take down a pos you don't shoot the pos; you instead have to take down some % of structures that are related to the pos but all lie on different grids from each other and from the pos. this way both the attacker and the defender have to split up."
"i really love this idea; there were a few similar ideas in the ccp thread, but i think this is better then all of them. still some balance issues to workout, but we'll have to impliment the system and deal with those as they come.i think it might be even cooler if you could when you've captured an entire region  have sov over all constellations  then you could elect to have a system with an outpost as the \"region capital.\" this would entitle that systems constellation to be immune to any attacks on gates. this will then force an attacker to take another constellation rather then just go right for the jugular.i have not been involved in sov warfare in a long time, so i'm just throwing this out."
"thanks guys - here's what is slated to be added/modified at the moment:stargate capturemake the tactical structure invulnerability benefit harder to disrupt. currently thinking: ts invulnerability is held as long as 100% of the in-system stargates are captured or contested by the owning alliance. in this way an attacker would first engage in a constellation-wide small gang effort to disrupt defender stargate control. as soon as a defender allows a contested stargate to lapse to neutral status, that system's tactical structures are vulnerable to attack, and the battle moves to a system-wide effort to destroy tses second, flesh out the capture/contest/recapture mechanic as follows: capturing or contesting a stargate requires x  let's say 10  ships in proximity to the gate to interface with it for y  let's say 30  minutes. this interfacing disables the warp drive of the ships in 60 second cycles - so if you break off the interfacing because of enemy attack, it will be up to 60 seconds before warp drives come back online. a defender recapturing a contested stargate requires only half the normal time  so 15 minutes in this example .tactical structuresfirst, jump bridges and cyno field generators are put back inside a pos's shields for transit safety purposes. instead, in order for them to operate they require \"jump bridge beacons\" and \"cyno field generator beacons\" placed in safe spots away from gravity wells.second, tactical structures cannot be placed within less than 1 au of another tactical structure of the same name.third, change tactical structure's function as follows: instead of placing a single structure to create the effect, a system requires 3 active ts's of a given type to generate the given effect. a maximum of 5 ts's of a given type may be anchored in a system. thus a defending alliance will choose to anchor the maximum of 5 ts's of a type, and attackers will need to eliminate 3 or more in order to neutralize the effect.for more discussionthere has already been talk of the interaction of the cynojammer and the jump bridge - should they be mutually exclusive? only mutually exclusive in regards to capships?"
"perhaps allow a non-cap ship sized jump bridge, then make cynojammers and \"capital\" jump bridges exclusive. this allows defending gangs to roam easier and prevents one side from having a capital blob while another is forced to use conventional ships"
"updated the op's with the changes discussed - changed tactical structures to tactical arrays to better describe their distributed nature. also added more detail about how stargate capture works."
"ccp says \"no, we are way to lazy to fix anything important like this.\""
"remove tracking disrupter bonus and add give nos/neut range.and leave my goddamn drone bonus alone"
"needs fixed badly!"
"the pilgrim  and curse for that matter  need to be restored to gangsta status."
"can we get some ccp or csm luvin in here?"
"i wub option 1! gief me ogre iis wiht mah pelgrem!"
"yes"
"the point of this thread was not to make the cerberus a sacrilege. i am not asking for that.what i am saying is that just like the nighthawk, the cerberus also is very hard to fit. the other missile hac, the sacrilege, is incredibly easy to fit and generally more effective than the cerberus.cerberus could use more grid, have its missile flight time bonus changed to another velocity bonus for missiles, and dare i say, get damage to all missiles not just kinetics  caldari-wide racial issue yes not asking for a drone bay, not asking for more speed, not asking for less mass of the ship, not asking for any of that, not asking for more capacitor, or capacitor recharge or shield hp or shield resists..easier to fit. better bonuses. ability to fit hams and make it actually worth it. that's it."
"let's just all be honest here. the sacrilege is a great ship. let the amarr have a uber missile boat. all i am asking for here is that the cerberus at least get boosted somewhat. that's right folks i'm not even asking for the cerberus to be equal to the sacrilege, it's that good. if the cerberus was more powerful than the sacrilege than it would be insanely overpowered.. the sac is again that good.i am pretty sure if the cerberus was turned into a zealot, except with more hp, more dps, more speed, better bonuses, ect ect, everyone would cry bloody murder.. but this is exactly what happened. ccp took the sacrilege and simply turned it into a cerberus, except tons and tons better, why? it's a missile ship with the capacitor and grid of a laser boat..... and better bonuses to missiles than the cerberus.. and it even gets capacitor and armor resist bonuses.. now that is one hell of a ship!heavy assault launchers, they need to fit better on caldari ships. right now it's almost as if they were custom tailored for a friggin amarr hac.. the sac fits them plus everything and a pony right now. can't say that for the cerberus, nighthawk, or any tier 1 caldari bc/cruiser.bonuses, kinetic only.. i hate this bonus. i will forever hate this bonus. caldari are the missile race, bonus for all missiles types, please. the missile flight time bonus on the cerberus is quite dubious.. it could be replaced with something useful.anyways i'll add more if people respond, i am very curious as to how anyone could possibly defend the cerberus or even in my mind make me believe the ship is any longer of any use.. now if you tell me to go snipe in this ship i will hate you forever.. for one the eagle is already a sniper and missiles aren't for sniping so if that is your response, well.. that will not change my mind one bit.again, discuss.."
"the cerb isn't a close range gank boat. that's your problem right there.fit heavy missles -> burn to 150 with other nano snipers and apply pain.350dps from 160km, 2.7km/s[cerberus, lol]overdrive injector system iioverdrive injector system iiballistic control system iiballistic control system ii10mn microwarpdrive iismall capacitor booster ii, cap booster 200invulnerability field iilarge shield extender iisensor booster ii, targeting rangeheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missile[empty high slot]polycarbon engine housing ipolycarbon engine housing i440dps at 3700m/s[sacrilege, plate]overdrive injector system iioverdrive injector system iioverdrive injector system iiballistic control system iiballistic control system ii10mn microwarpdrive iiwarp disruptor iilarge shield extender iimedium capacitor booster ii, cap booster 800heavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missileheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missileheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missileheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missileheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missile[empty high slot]polycarbon engine housing ipolycarbon engine housing i"
"fixed for you, cerberus isn't good for sniping. i repeat, not good for sniping.i am aware the cerberus is not a true short range ship, though with heavy assaults it should have that option. the cerberus is the front line dps hac for caldari. the eagle is the sniper.. please do not tell me to drop on a target, mwd 150km away and then watch it warp away before a single missile hits, thank you.also you are ignoring the fact that:1. cerberus bonuses suck.2. cerberus is defensively speaking, much weaker.3. cerberus capacitor wise, is weaker.4. cerberus is quite a bit slower.5. cerberus has a harder time with fittings, by far.that's just off the top of my head. again i ask, why the sacrilege, an amarr ship, such a better missile hac than the cerberus, which is caldari, and using the primary weapon of the caldari, missiles? why not just make the cerberus a zealot......... but better!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! makes no sense folks "
"eve is not a sologame."
"this isn't about solo.. though of course caldari are by far the worst at it.. i do not understand that when it comes to caldari ships and their inability to engage a target without an entire fleet with them we get this stop trying to solo noob stuff. seriously, does it have to be a joke to engage in a caldari ship? i don't always have 5 friends in my back pocket. other races ships can do this, why not caldari?train reading comprehension and then re-read the post please. this is about a head on view of the sacrilege and cerberus."
"you just described a solosituation to explain why the cerb \"sucks\"..."
"so what you are telling me is basically this:1. missiles are caldari weapons.2. heavy assault launchers are introduced into the game as a short range high dps cruiser weapon.3. sorry, caldari can't fit them and be viable in short range pvp. only amarr get that. in fact we're gonna boost the hell out of the amarr hac and make it the bestest missile cruiser ever! we'll even leave those tanking and capacitor bonuses in there too, just so you feel completely stupid about flying a ceberus instead of just sorta stupid.now we have a ship like the raven, which can fit cruise missile launchers or torpedoes and work at a long range or a short range role, depending on the type of launchers and setup used.on the cruiser  and battlecruiser  side for caldari we get lol sorry folks gotta go mwd 150km away and shoot heavys or die horribly cause every other hac outclasses you under 50km, cant set your ship up for any type of mid/short range combat lol!!! go train amarr if you wanna do that, with your races weapons, stupid!perhaps they should take amarr medium pulse lasers away and make them impossible to fit on their ships and let caldari have those, since they got our heavy assault launchers.terrific game balance, i say."
"the cerberus is just fine, as long as you don't try to nano fit it. stop thinking of it as a close range ship and actaully use that double range bonus. which, by the way, works just fine as a gang ship, in smaller fights flight time isn't as much of a problem as people claim, and in larger fights you're anti-support and not hitting the primary anyway. the only \"problems\" the cerberus has are:1  grid/cpu are too tight. this is the one thing you're right about, it's too hard to fit this ship compared to the other hacs. 2  javelin hams are way too good, and allow the sacrilege to steal some of the cerberus' long-range role. they either need a damage reduction, or a major range reduction.sure, the lack of a good nano setup is annoying, but nano cruisers are long overdue for a major nerf, so we shouldn't balance the cerberus around them."
"if cerberus is long range, and obviously eagle is a sniper. why do caldari lack a short range hac?are caldari only useful for sniping and electronics?i have started a second race of ships just cause caldari sucks."
"stop comparing the sacrilege with the cerberus. they have completely different roles. and, arguably, the cerb's roles are more important - many ships can apply close-range dps while going quickly, like the sacrilege, but none can compete with the cerberus in its niche.the cerb may deserve a bit more pg and cpu, though - its fittings are unnecessarily tight. oh, and i agree that jav hams are overpowered, both in general capabilities and when applied to the ham sac/cerb comparison."
"no. cerb is a long range missile spammer. the person who gave you the 150km snipe setup is correctly using the ship  although i would put ewar on it  if you refuse to use tactics and just want a f1-f8 solo-pwnage machine  see sig  then that is not the fault of the ship or its deisgn.caldari = range, they can use short range missiles and blasters but the gallente does blasters better and the sacrilege does hams better and i think there are some amarr frigs/dessies that do rockets better. if a race cannot overlap with another races specialty, then i guess you wouldn't mind if the crow went a max of 4km/s, right?tech 2 ships are highly specialized ships that no one forces you to train for. if you like the ham damage and close range-ness of the sacrilege, then by all means train for it."
"why do caldari need  or want  a close-range hac? caldari are for fleet pvp, if you want a disorganized blob, train gallente.which hacs are actually good in a proper fleet? cerberus, eagle, vagabond, zealot  kind of . hey, two of the four are caldari... and where is the gallente hac on that list?"
"so you are telling the the cerberus is perfectly fine, so long as you do not fit it in a fashion which makes it survivable in a roaming gang. great idea. i'll slow boat and totally kick ass from now on, this fixes everything.again i ask you all, why were heavy assault launchers added, if caldari ships, in particular, their heavy assault cruiser, the cerberus, in completely inept, and out shined by an amarr hac? please give me a logical_reason_for_this_please.missile ships aren't snipers. missile ships aren't snipers, hey did you hear that missile ships, are not snipers? true story.well at least we agree on something.i don't think it's the missiles. it is the ships. again i ask, why is the cerberus a 'sniper missile ship' missiles aren't for sniping, you are putting the ship in a role that by design doesn't work for missile ships, making the cerberus utter fail. i always assumed heavy assault missiles would be for caldari ships, i really had no idea ccps true intention was to make them not fit on caldari ships and then buff the sacrilege to teh moon. some how this did not actually cross my mind. boy was i wrong?while i would not cry if every single polycarb rig in eve was loaded onto a freighter and piloted straight into a star and exploded it still doesn't change the fact that the cerberus is junk.if i hear \"missile\" and \"sniper\" in the same sentence one more time i think my head will asplode. that is an oxymoron, also the eagle yanno it already snipes, we don't really need two ships, especially one that tries to do it with the wrong weapons -- we don't need two of those pant-load ships."
"i am so glad to know that i need to have 20-150 friends logged into properly use my caldari vessel.i will gladly answer your question of \"why do caldari need  or want  a close-range hac.\"answer: warp disruptors are fitted into ships that are fitted for speed in small gang fights, which hac are the best at.if you are in a roaming gang and promptly mwd 150km away and fire missiles that go 8km/sec at best at a target while your friends are fighting in their close range ships and using their warp disruptors to actually kill targets you will be kindly kicked out of the gang and asked to please delete the eve client.also ever since ccp added heavy assault launchers and waited every so patiently for them to be introduced into the game we had this \"crazy notion\" that they would be usable and effective on our caldari ships, considering caldari use missiles, and heavy assault launchers, oddly enough fire missiles. this is all crazy stuff i know but try to follow.i could go into the \"why everything caldari is awful for pvp right now\" but i will resist that argument since it's all over the eve forums.again, the raven -- it can fit cruise or torpedoes and be effective in both roles. the cerberus, nighthawk, caracal, drake -- all screwed thanks to bad bonuses and the fitting requirements of hams. only ship able to effectively use hams, an amarr ship. you seriously do not see a problem with this?so every caldari ship has to be a sniper, even the ones that use weapons which are completely unacceptable for the sniper role. even though hams were introduced because caldari ships were lacking a short range launcher we need understand that caldari can't really fit or use them effectively because they are not intended for caldari ships? i am so very confused. when do i get my caldari laser pwnmobile? i don't think training for the sacrilege really helps restore game balance, it just sweeps it under the rug and really bones every player who trains caldari with the crazy notion that their ships are designed for missiles, both short and long range.the eagle is already the hac sniper for caldari, we don't need two. what's the point in specializing a hac when you give us both with the same role? shouldn't the other hac have a different role? wouldn't that like, make sense, sorta?also, my head asplode."
"cerberus isn't as good as sacrilege if you nano them for overall pvp. however, i'm sure the cerberus does better against kin/thermal damage it is designed to tank - i.e. gallente. this is the intended role."
"yes, i'm well aware of the speed problem in roaming gangs right now. fix the broken nano setups, and the fact that the cerberus can't go 999999999999km/s won't be a problem anymore. a cerberus with a mwd isn't all that slow, it's only when you compare it to overpowered nano setups that it looks bad.re: fleet: deal with it. caldari trade solo/small gang ability for the best fleet ships in the game. if you don't like it, train minmatar or gallente, and you can have some awesome solo/small gang ships but be worthless in a fleet.re: hams: yes, they were obviously released without much effort made to balance them properly. the grid requirements on caldari ships obviously weren't even looked at, and anyone who thinks javelin hams are balanced is insane.as for the cerberus vs. the eagle, the cerberus has two key advantages:1  it has much more dps than the eagle. the cerberus puts out almost 400 dps well past 150km, which just rips apart hostile cruiser/bc-size support. the eagle, on the other hand, is usually limited to frigates.2  it doesn't have the close-range blind spot of the eagle. sure, the eagle hits very well at 200km, but it has major problems tracking close-range targets. the cerberus, on the other hand, hits for full damage from 0-180km."
"oh okay now i get it, this argument really makes total sense to me.forget everything i said, cerberus is meant to tank blasters and ogre iis now i guess?you are absolutely right, the cerberus tanks way better against kinetic and thermal damage, way better than the hac that is faster, does more dps, has higher resists, 50-100% more buffer hp, and the ability to actively tank.if i'm ever surrounded by ogre iis and dying to an ishtar i will know for sure, my intended role has been met. that extra themeral resist will totally save me and i will be totally glad i am not in a sacrilege, which would actually have a chance...on a side note, racial resistances on t2 ships have about zero to do with this issue, yanno, in case you are all wondering."
"let's focus on this, this actually has something to do with what i am trying to say here.take the spike m out. and uh, against fast targets you will find the cerberus to be quite useless as well, afterall precision heavy missiles are completely broken. you actually do fly a cerberus correct?"
"yes, i do know how to fly an eagle. even faction ammo has problems hitting at close range, reducing the eagle's already-low dps. as for precision missiles, maybe i wasn't clear enough. the roles:eagle: kill small fast targets at long range.cerberus: kill cruiser/bc-size targets  such as those annoying ewar ships  at all ranges.rapier: kill small fast targets at close range.the cerberus is also useful in more situations. the eagle is pretty much limited to the fleet role, while the cerberus is good even in small gangs  though the drake is arguably just as good, but cheaper . it provides a good amount of dps, does so consistently  the eft damage of that blaster boat goes down quite a bit once you count falloff and tracking , and keeps the ability to deal with long-range targets if needed  such as that blackbird causing you trouble . the main threat to this usefulness is not the sacrilege itself, it's the broken javelin hams that let the sacrilege hit targets well beyond what a \"close-range\" ship is supposed to be capable of. nerf javelin hams, and i'd gladly trade 85 dps for 150km of range."
"i think, all can be solved by1  a bit better cpu/grid to cerb as suggested above.2  cerb missile bonus apply to ham and all ammo types as well.3  fix precision heavy missiles."
"all of this is nice and all and probably true but it still doesn't have anything to do with this thread. we could talk about what is useful in fleets all day but it doesn't mean anything.let's get back to the point:heavy assault launchers, why are they so difficult to use on caldari ships?why are they only good on sacrileges? an amarr ship.why does the cerberus  and various other caldari ships  get a kinetic only bonus when the sacrilege gets its bonuses to all assault missiles?is the flight time bonus on the cerberus useful?  no why is a cerberus so difficult to fit and yet a sacrilege is so damn easy?do we need two caldari hac snipers? also missiles are utter fail for the sniper role.you could in theory fit a sacrilege with javelin heavy assault missiles, do any damage type, and kill cruisers/battlecruisers from almost 90km away, which is stretching it for a missile 'sniper' if you ask me. you'll have a larger buffer tank, better resistances, ect ect. so even at longish range, the cerberus is utter fail vs the sacrilege.though this is all again, very moot.. if you bring an eagle, cerberus, or sacrilege to an actual fleet fight you'll probably be disgraced or at the very least induce groans..vultures snipe support better than eagles, and can provide gang links.ravens splatter e-war support way better than cerberus and are more resistance to jamming.just for the record.  i'd rather not discuss this further, this isn't about fleet stuff really "
"cerb missile bonus does apply to ham.the main problem is the grid - either ham need easier fitting or the caldari cruisers need a grid boost. preferably the second."
"jim, you're trying to use the cerberus like a sacrilege, and then complaining when you find that the sacrilege is better at being a sacrilege. also, missile sniping, while certainly rather niche, is far from useless. a cerberus can deliver missiles to 240 km. sure, you have to wait 20 seconds for the missiles to arrive, but the dps advantage over, say, an eagle once they do arrive is so great that it only takes a few volleys for the cerb to gain the upper hand in damage delivered. and, as merin said, you're just as good at shooting stuff closer to you.alternatively, fit your cerb with aml iis and precision lights, with explosion velocity rigs, and create a 60-km no-fly zone for unpimped inties. you'll also deal full damage to almost all nanocruisers. you can't do that in a sacrilege, not without webbing your target first.if there is a problem, it's to do with jav hams and the cerb's pg/cpu, rather than the concepts of the cerberus and sacrilege, or the launcher fittings."
"you are comparing two totally different ships."
"that. and also what gypsio said.plus when you talk about tank, you are really too much into eft. eft will show you some nice ehp with a dual lse tank.but have a look at the resistances. with a basic 20% thermal on the shield, ~30% if you use a low slot for a dc ii, the probably most used damage type in game, your tank is much thinner than it appears in eft. add to that that thermal is also the lowest resist on the armor.and the power of the cerbs range cant be overestimated, really. providing dps from 180km+ out makes you pretty much immune to all ecm and nearly all hostile ships.admittedly i make a lot of my kills in a sacrilege, being amarr specced and having a tad for close combat, but for ranged combat i have to resort to a navy issue caracal cause the sacrilege just cant compare to even that, let alone a cerberus."
"thumb up just for the ham launcher review.and cerb should be looked at too .. i'd happily trade one of the range bonuses for a launcher rof bonus.range bonuses have their use on turrets where ammo damage goes down as range increase. however they are almost worthless on missiles  or at least double range bonuses are . missile speed is ok. missile flight time is rubbish."
"you are seriously going to tell me, that a sacrilege, is less survivable than a cerberus? this is absurd and untrue. if you want to complain about resistance holes, look at that 0% em on the cerberus. the cerbs overall resists aren't that great... it has less of a tank than the sac, it has harder time fitting lse than the sac, it does everything worse than the sac, outside of being able to toss heavy missiles out at extreme range, which is not that useful of an ability in actual pvp..now you are going to tell me, to effectively use a cerberus, you -must- be 180km away from the target where it can not fire back at you? what is wrong with you people? why is being able to fit a friggin caldari ship for mid-short range pvp and not suck such a huge deal? every other race can do it, why not caldari? why not the cerberus? sacrilege gets everything and a pony and you can not see this?navy issue caracals? what? you are going to bring faction ships into this? please don't. we going to compare navy megathrons to hyperions next?"
"you might have a batter time getting support if you were willing to be less of an asshat about it."
"they're not that different.make a cerberus a laser boat and make it a zealot but make every aspect of it better, give it a better tank, more cap, more speed, more dps, but take away the laser optimal range bonus. then when amarr guys come ranting and raving to the forum i will gladly tell them to chill out, cause they are two totally different ships. cause like, hey i don't have an optimal range bonus and you do, go mwd 100km away and snipe, loser!"
"gah.resists are just a small part of survivability.check the prices of cerberus and navy caracals.and most importantly, figure out what the cerberus can do that the sacrilege can't, and exploit those capabilities.it's awful threads like this that give caldari pvp a bad name."
"google the sons of tangra killboard, check out the most used ship. oh yeah its a cerberus running in nano sniping gangs. if you don't know what those are don't bother posting here."
"uhhhhhhh....... resists are useful, effective hp is useful, sacrilege has about 8-16k more than the cerberus. just as in every other aspect the sacrilege is better.i don't care about navy caracals, they have nothing to do with this.the only thing a cerberus can do over a sac is range, which with missiles isn't that useful, nor is it practical to mwd insanely far away from targets and fire missiles.caldari pvp is hurting right now. really badly. you might have noticed one or two threads about this, i'm guessing you will tell me next that the nighthawk is perfectly fine too, correct?i'm glad you like my thread!"
"i don't like this thread. it's a stupid thread.tank is only useful when you're being shot at. the cerberus, like the falcon, should not be getting shot at. that's why resists and ehp are only part of the story.you should care about navy caracals, and the navy osprey. don't be so narrow-minded. they're the caldari nanoships. if you want to fly something that isn't a sacrilege like a sacrilege is flown, use one of those ships.caldari pvp is fine. i think i have one kill not using a caldari ship - i was in a prowler and it was an accident. the races are rather well balanced right now, actually. certain ships have problems, and i agree that the cerberus could do with a bit more pg and cpu, but its intended role, and actual capabilities, are solid enough.nighthawk? hmmm, i wonder who's put in hours of donkey work on that thread, modelling and describing the problems and suggested solutions? the main problem with this thread is that it's hopelessly vague. you need to identify a specific problem with the cerberus, prove that it is a problem, then suggest specific changes, complete with modelling indicating their expected effects. maybe pg or cpu buffs, or you might argue that the problem is really one of jav ham range?"
"/me falls down laughing.shows your knowledge about the issue, the quality of your research, and your general overview.cerberus shield resists: 0/80/70/50sacrilege shield resists: 0/20/50/85and the sacrilege actually has to operate under fire.please do your homework before starting an issue next time . thanks alot."
"sacrilege can fit 8k shield buffer + medium rep and gets armor resists. thanks a lot!"
"dude! chill!i agree with you... but plz... calm the **** down!!!"
"sniper missile boat, pfft. whoever's pimping that idea must not have been in plenty of 0.0 alliances that ***** and laugh if you try to bring one of those, and they have reason...\"wtf, bring a drake or bb instead, you won't do **** with that thing.\"increase missile speed for lights, heavies, lolcruise and torps, increase explosion velocity, take a real look at the awfull t2 junk ammo, rethink caldari crap inherent ship bonuses. if we are the missile race, let us be the missile race.so, yeah."
"no no no :pvery few have invested teh same into learning skills. this makes most pilots different becasue they will not train their skills as fast or slow as others. couple this with implants adn initial attributes and we get the cool diversity.no u"
"if i remember correctly ccp already wants to remove learning skills 'cuz they feel like it's makeing it harder for new players to get in to the gameand also, needless to say, training learning skills sux hard since they dint give u  the ability to use  any new cool stuff"
"link it."
"i disagree wholeheartedly with the complete removal of learning skills under the argument that 'it makes it harder for new players to complete effectively'. that issue is almost completely dealt with in the fact that skills are exponential in required points for levels  level 1 is superfast, level 2 fast, level 3 slow, level 4 really slow, level 5 takes a looong time  with fixed payoffs.on the other hand, i think learning skills are perhaps overpowered. eve is about specialization, but specialization in learning grants you a significant specialization bonus in *every* skill category. i can see why that's bad.but eve is about specialization. i would only support a proposal to remove general learning skills if new skills were invented to take their place, i.e. \"gunnery training\" which gives the same benefits as the learning skills but only to skills in the gunnery subtree, etc. one per category is probably about right.just saying that removal of learning skills should be done to make it easier for new players to compete is the same as saying we should remove all gunnery support skills  rapid fire, sharpshooting, etc.  because veteran controlled guns hit harder and track better from farther away than n00b controlled guns, and that makes it harder for n00bs to compete. at some point, the game is fun because you *can* be better at something than someone else. if you want a truly level playing field for new players... the veterans aren't going to have any reason to stick around.tl;dr - learning skills are overpowered, but removing them is wrong. specializing them might be much better.no support here for op suggestion."
"unfortunately i have no idea how the npc ai is handled at ccp's end, so anything i theorize about how it works are just guestimates. however, i'm a software engineer myself and as such i tried to come up with ideas that can be implemented without  theoretically  eating up additional cpu time. as to whether it will or not, i'd just have to place my faith in ccp.actually, i usually run missions solo. the point of these ideas is not to force people to run missions in groups, which is why i'm a little hesitant regarding the change to half the number of npcs and increase their damage. however, i do think that missions should offer some more advantages for working in groups. for example, you could forgo a scrambler on your ship to make sure you can tank the npcs, but then you'll earn less in bounties as the leader warps out. you'll still make plenty of money, but not quite as much as if you had a buddy in a frig to hold down your targets  which may not even be worth it, depending on how you split the bounties . i don't want to force people to do anything, as it's against the spirit of eve, but i think that we should encourage people to cooperate more for missions.that being said, i don't want to significantly harm the ability and profitability of running missions solo  which would he how these changes would affect me personally . i'm not for removing it from the entire game, just from mission loot. fair enough. the difference between 5000 meters and 1500 meters is pretty small.thanks for the feedback, even if you didn't support it."
"i really hope you mean from all the npc, mission, belt and exploration rats."
"my proposal deals only with missions, but overall i would like to see that. the only source of unnamed t1 equipment should be other players."
"1  fewer, better npcs: if the overall mission difficulty and rewards remain the same, why bother? if we are going to make some unsoloable level 4 missions... that's just frustrating for a lot of solo players. i don't see a big win here. i would rather just see more new missions.2  no more unnamed t1 loot: that mineral supply is probably important, given the number of absolutely stripped highsec belts. could force more players to mine in lowsec... but probably just causes a lot of price hikes on manufactured goods. also, if all missions just dropped higher-end named loot, that loot just becomes the new low end and totally crashes in value almost immediately. i don't see a big win here either.3  mission leaders that aren't totally stupid: okay, that's something new and interesting. other people have voiced concerns, but generally, more intelligent npc tactics are a good thing. i'm in favor of that. i'm not sure i'm in favor of npcs that warp out and back, etc., however. mostly just in favor of improving ai generally.4  more dynamic spawns: absolutely in favor of. i think it would be great to have occasional faction/officer spawns  much less frequent than in belts, etc., but just that 1 in 10000 chance would be nice  to spice up life in missions. this would have to be done somewhat intelligently, though; it would be very irritating to run a long highly dynamic mission in which all spawns were very low end  how many hundred coreli initiates must one kill, exactly? all in all, against the first two, in favor of the last two in a general sense.... the op is too specific for me to support."
"/signedgood post. i hope the csm gives this serious consideration..."
"i agree that there are 2 different issues raised by this thread. ccp's customer service and lag. in the past i experienced server side lag and my friend lost his ship. i can prove without a doubt that the lag was not on my side via a wireshark trap of the entire session. that and the fact that i am on a 3gbps connection over a solid carrier as close to the internet as you can get and my box is well above the recommended specs. i saw nothing hitting his ship, his shields were full, and then *pop* gone. ccp denied his petition for reimbursement citing that the logs showed no indication of lag. obviously both issues raised here were to blame. the fact that the system wasn't crowded  i can say nothing about the node as a whole though , it took their gateway 2300ms to send a tcp ack to a packet  yes eve goes over tcp not udp, if you doubt me trap it with wireshark  and it was out of sequence goes to show the issue is on their end, not mine, not my friends. the response from the gm was downright insulting. i very much doubt that they log the lag to every ip connected to them at all times. i admit i may be wrong about them logging lag to every ip connected to them. i don't do it at my job unless it's needed, and i work with something that over 100ms of lag can seriously impact and result in a large loss of revenue."
"yes to no cloaking capitals.no to everything else."
"a nerf to the cloak isn't necessary.a sized capital cloak that takes more energy and fitting would be a good path.another would be a module that can disrupt cloaking."
"smartbombs, bombs, drones  comedy doomsday option as well qed.posting vigorously to show that i am an angry individual and hate this idea. rage quit etc etc."
"smartbombs have to low an effect to be effective, drones work though and have used that many times. bombs though expensive could be used in this manner effectively."
"this sounds like the mwd talk back in the days, when one mwd fitted on all sizes.perhaps it is then needed to introduce different classes of cloaks, which i think would be a pain tho.personally because of the carebear i am i want to keep my mining ships cloaked at all times if possible so i would not like this idea"
"sized cloaks: sure, if they can still be run 23/7, or at least can be run for.. say 15min  should be much longer for the cov-ops cloak  and then gets into a deactivation faze so that the pilot has to \"update\" his cloaked state  to prevent the ppl from going afk cloaked in hostile space all day effect: ppl can still be cloaked for long periods of time, but if they don't have time to play they'l have to log of, tactics that involve cloaking  hit and run  are still viable, sized cloaks would make fitting a \"capital cloak\" on a capital ship gimp the ship more in terms of cpu+pg usage"
"this suggestion is horribly unbalanced. it would essentially make capital ships undeployable unless you had a huge fleet or a pos to hide at and massively skew the game  even more  to the defenders advantage.you should know the titan pilots name, if he's in local then take precautions or get a bait and trap ready."
"quasi-support, with penalties as suggested in op #3.dd/cyno/siege modes are unavailable for 5 minutes after decloak, and cloaking is unavailable for 5 minutes from performing either of those functions."
"thisand titans are broke as hell anyway. can't really use them as an example of cloaking abuse since they're basically abused as it is.still maintain that titans are themonuclear ninjas that don't exist in actual combat unless someone is stupid. they don't have to exist in actual combat to gain most of their value."
"i propose a mining cloak that can allow a dreadnaught to mine while cloaked and seiged  also adding a mining laser seige bonus , but only in high security space.how's that?"
"if the issue is \"capital cloaks\", then i think sized modules would be a simple solution.small/med/large/capital... all with the exact same functionality as we have today.if the issue is \"cloakers that keep going afk\"... then i'd like to point to a suggestion i had a while back."
"i noticed this thread today, and i don't see any evidence that it is getting any attention: linkagei was unaware of this, but apparently smartbombs are sufficient to completely disable incoming citadel torpedo fire  and a few other issues as well .in my mind, this makes the phoenix  and half the naglfar  a worthless ship. capital weapons should be able to *hit* capital ships; it shouldn't be possible to fit a single module and thereby be able to tank an infinitely large fleet of phoenixes.i think the thread above describes a problem that desperately needs some attention. i don't see that it has gotten any in the game development forum where it is now, so i submit it to the assembly hall. : "
"i am in favor, obviously. : "
"yes i would also say - remove insurance completley from the game or make it more expensive."
"i agree :  or to be fairer on newer players maybe leave 100% insurance on tech 1 frigates/destroyers and 50% on tech 1 cruisers.but then i never insure anything anyway..."
"i've done some more thinking on the topic of t2 insurance, given the opposition that the topic has raised, and i realized that i want it to exist and be useful, but i don't want it to be on as sweet of terms as t1 insurance is. the 1:2 ratio of insurance premium to insurance is fine, but the 40% basic payout is not. as such, it seems like there should be 5 levels of t2 insurance - 10/20/30/40/50% of market price in premiums gives you a payout of 20/40/60/80/100% of market price. it's significantly more expensive than t1, and more appropriate to the higher-end players who will be using it, but it will at least eliminate the problem of uninsurability for t2 ships. alternately, use the definition of \"mineral costs\" to lower effective insurance - don't include datacores, invention time, t2 component production costs, or anything below a perfect-me bpo."
"my suggestion would be do away with insurance entirely, at least on the bigger ships. losing a big ship should be a painful loss, currently you pretty much just lose the cost of the modules on a t1 bs. i don't know how much capitals insure for, and what % of the cost it is, but i find it ridiculous that capital ships can be insured at all. they're meant to be a big investment, not something you can get hundreds of millions back on if you lose."
"please remove insurance from the game in its entirety, its just stupid."
"welcome to april."
"this is exactly the problem. under my plan, an insured battleship will still cost you 30% of market, or 18-45 million, plus module/rig costs. these are not cheap - it'd be cheaper for t2, but significantly more expensive than the bare handfuls of millions it costs now for t1. costs for a suicide-fit ship would roughly quintuple, and costs for a t2-fit ship would go up by a lower proportion, but still a lot. as for capitals, you buy a carrier on market for about 900 mil, it insures for its 600 mil mineral costs the rest is pos fuel and blueprint amortization , and that insurance costs you 180 million. you get back 420 on your 900 or more like 1200 fitted  when it dies, putting you down circa 2/3 of your price. is that painful enough for you? this plan acts as a major nerf to capital insurance."
"i just had an interesting and related idea:here is an idea for you.take tractor beams  or maybe a new version of them  and have them be usable on ships as well as wrecks/cans.it gives those ships an acceleration towards you of 500 m/s  smaller ships affected more than big . a couple of tractor beams would pull them into range of the web and then lets a normal web take effect. naturally they could fly against the tractor beam but it does make it harder for them to get away from you and multiple tractors would become nasty but you are giving up high slots to achieve that.this also gives marauders a role in pvp."
"lets face it, bombs are useless. they are too expensive, difficult to apply properly, and  if made much easier too use  would destroy small gang warfare and overpower gate camping. they need a role that is more useful, while not rendering small gangs obsolete.my proposal is this  bombs should only be capable of being launched at a cap ship. they will fly toward their target  lets say at about 2k a sec  and then stick or adhere to the cap ship. from the moment they are launched they are on a timer  id propose around 1 minute . when they explode they do ae damage  they will not detonate in-flight   for example base damage  5,000area of effect  5kall targets within the aoe will receive full damage  resistances withstanding .what this would amount to is that stealth bombers would now be capable of seriously harassing enemy cap ships, and providing effective damage to cap ships only. the trick is that any ships or drones within 5k of the ae would take the damage also. this means the attackers would have to be cautious in effectively deploying drones against the target without having them annihilated by friendly bombs. far more strategy would have to be used. coordinated attackers willing to field a small wing of stealth bombers could deal a tremendous amount of burst damage to a cap ship.the defending forces would also have to deal with the bombs differently. repair drones would have to be recalled, and any repair ships would have to stay outside of the 5k ae. however, there is one defense against bombs  the utterly useless defender missile.now defender missiles would become an anti-bomb countermeasure. defender missile launchers  new module  would become similar to bomb launchers  5000 cpu, 10 grid  and all logistics ships would receive a 99% role bonus to fitting defender missile launchers. this would make logistics ships far more useful and flexible across setups, and would be invaluable to have present during cap ship ops.once active a defender missile launcher would remain active until deactivated  no cap use, 20 sec rof  and would launch a defender missile which auto-target any active bomb within 20k that is stuck to a cap-ship in gang.the trick is a bomb explosion would slightly rock the cap ship  akin to bumping the ship , making alignment slightly more difficult. however, the ae damage removes the desire for many ships to constantly bump the cap ship, meaning a more strategically aware and coordinated force will be able to use the bombs to their advantage, while those ignoring their use will lose their own drones and ships.so, in one fell swoop both bombs and defender missiles are incredibly useful, and both stealth bombers and logistics ships get a shot in the arm."
"get rid of the bio instead"
"we need other things, more practical, than the stupid bio.the lenght si neough for you to write some non sensical stuff.hell no!"
"basicly the claw has the worst locking range of all interceptors of the same tier, and i for one cant find any good reason for that.claw has 17km locking range.crusader and taranis has 20km and the crow has a whooping 30km locking range base stats btw the simple fix would be to buff the locking range to 20km to keep it line with the other interceptors"
"i think all the intys should get a locking range boost, especially those that get the scram range boost. what is the point of having a 30 km scram when i can lock at 27km?"
"nice checkbox there will be good."
"except that they haven't taken time and effort. they just haven't bothered to tidy up their pos and have left ships in space instead of in the maint bay.hell, bring back pos bowling and then we can steal them and they can store them in the maint bay instead of leaving them in space!the trouble is that all those things take far too much time - you can't realistically scan out a belt ratter or look for reinforcements coming to a fight or anything else which needs to give you the information in just a few seconds."
"add a toggle [x] show unboarded shipsproblem solved.and yes it is annoying"
"i agree fully"
"yup, that's almost exactly what i had in mind - although overview settings and/or another column showing the boarded status of scanned ships would both also fix the problem."
"several of these topics excite me. good job csm!"
"this priority list is kinda shockingly **** i mean com on skill page tweaks is higher than say problems with aggression timer and and switching all ammo at the same time half the high priority we do not friggin need like asap but some from the rest we do.in my eyes ccp don't no nothing about what is happenin in-game and wat is causing the major problems.and the fact that gtc's r gunna stay reall really high priced and all we r gunna have is 60 day well i can say for one wen my account goes inactive i say bb to eve and im sure alot of people will do same well done marketing side of ccp for detroying there so called \"premium\" game or did all the people with ccp destroy it like csm ccp ccp's market side and others like that cause this game is way way way away from been a premium with how things are going i mean u will get people signing up fro 14 day trail and than either thinking ok cool game so fare how much would it cost omfg im not paying that much ill go play wow or something else or they will think bah this game is pathetic. i mean i dont no anyything about other countries but iv seen adverts on tv of wow for years i think i sore one of eve back wen it started and that took me 2-3 years after seeing that to actually try it.so to sum it all up in a few years eve will be dead due to prices or dead due to lack of custumer support/listening to customers and may i add csm u fail at pushing these points we have made to u fail badly now if u all please gtfo"
"i have come to this cornershop to purchase a lag upgrade:wtb lag upgrade!!lag upgrade?less lag = more players = more money eve. not more expensive gtc's<3-buhh"
"fail setups are fail, consider these more realistic ones:593 dps w/o drones, 154 dps tanked, 86356 ehp, 1038 m/s[nighthawk, pvp]ballistic control system iiballistic control system iiballistic control system iireactor control unit iidamage control ii10mn microwarpdrive iwarp disruptor iilarge shield extender iiinvulnerability field iiphoton scattering field iiheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missile x7core defence field extender icore defence field extender i601 dps w/o drones, 0 dps tanked, 86553 ehp, 900 m/s[absolution, pvp]1600mm reinforced rolled tungsten plates ireactor control unit iienergized adaptive nano membrane iiheat sink iiheat sink iiheat sink iidamage control ii10mn microwarpdrive iiwarp disruptor iistasis webifier iiheavy beam laser ii, amarr navy multifrequency m x7[empty high slot]trimark armor pump itrimark armor pump ihobgoblin ii x5877 dps w/o drones, 0 dps tanked, 51305 ehp, 900 m/s[astarte, damage]magnetic field stabilizer iimagnetic field stabilizer iimagnetic field stabilizer iireactor control unit iienergized adaptive nano membrane ii1600mm reinforced rolled tungsten plates i10mn microwarpdrive iwarp disruptor iistasis webifier iismall capacitor booster ii, cap booster 200heavy neutron blaster ii, caldari navy antimatter charge m x8trimark armor pump itrimark armor pump ihammerhead ii x5660 dps w/o drones, 140 dps tanked, 74710 ehp, 1400 m/s[sleipnir, dps]gyrostabilizer iigyrostabilizer iigyrostabilizer iidamage control iipower diagnostic system ii10mn microwarpdrive iiwarp disruptor iilarge shield extender iiinvulnerability field iiinvulnerability field ii425mm autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m x7skirmish warfare link - rapid deploymentcore defence field extender icore defence field extender ithe slep setup isn't that good though cause your better off with a non ehp setup like the following:510 dps w/o drones, 198 dps tanked, 23304 ehp, 3300 m/s[sleipnir, nanoz]gyrostabilizer iigyrostabilizer iiinertia stabilizers iioverdrive injector system iioverdrive injector system ii10mn microwarpdrive iiinvul iiwarp disruptor iilarge shield booster iimedium capacitor booster ii, cap booster 800425mm autocannon ii, barrage mx7skirmish warfare link - rapid deploymentpolycarbon engine housing ipolycarbon engine housing ior660 dps w/o drones, 376 dps tanked, 42 ehp, 1832 m/s[sleipnir, dps]gyrostabilizer iigyrostabilizer iigyrostabilizer iidamage control iipower diagnostic system ii10mn microwarpdrive iistasis webifier iimedium capacitor booster ii, cap booster 800large shield booster iiinvulnerability field ii425mm autocannon ii, republic fleet emp m x7skirmish warfare link - rapid deploymentanti-kinetic screen reinforcer ianti-thermal screen reinforcer i"
"why bother with that when you can use a drake ballistic control system iiballistic control system iiballistic control system iireactor control unit ii10mn microwarpdrive iiprocess-interruptive warp disruptorlarge shield extender iilarge shield extender iiinvulnerability field ii'anointed' i em ward reinforcementheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missileheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missileheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missileheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missileheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missileheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missileheavy assault missile launcher ii, caldari navy terror assault missile[empty high slot]core defence field extender icore defence field extender icore defence field extender i519 dps w/o drones, 152 dps tanked, 76,060 ehp, 1125 m/syou can afford many of these drakes for that cost of that single nighthawk.continued -"
"all of these setups are fairly solid, but all of them suffer with one major problem - they are command ships that are setup to solo, and the absolution and the nighthawk are not using their last high slot. the sleip and the astarte are filling their final high with a gang mod and a turret respectively. the abso and the nighthawk are not."
"i never said the nighthawk was good :p. i just said those setups don't give a fair comparison. basically your setups significantly understated the night hawk. i do agree it needs a boost, but its not that weak.also they arn't just \"setup to solo\". gang mods on field command ships isn't a must, even if it is nice. leaving highslots unfit is a common practice than can increase any ships effectiveness  see torp raven .re the drake: yes while the nighthawk is marginally better than one, the drake really is much better for the price. btw drop an lse and change out the rcu for a dc to get about 85k effective."
"i did, you can't thumbs up twice. i fully support fixing the nighthawk."
"a. keep in mind that hams do not receive a bonus on the nighthawk. the nighthawk is designed to be an anti-support ship.b. as i've stated multiple times in this thread, my posted setups are as close to being realistic, while remaining both true to each ship's role, and analogous to one another. such a restriction means that for the sake of an accurate comparison the setups must lean a little out of the norm. i've already explained this fact.i understand your point. however, the torp raven does not receive a bonus to that last empty slot, so it's not a proper comparison. throwing away the gang mod bonus on a command ship is a waste, in my humble opinion. as such, i balanced my opening setups to make full use of the ship, its bonuses, and to remain as true to each ship's inherent advantages as possible.regardless, that's not to say your setups or comparisons aren't illuminating. i simply believe that if proper comparisons are to be done then the ship needs to be setup according to its strengths and bonuses."
"it does receive bonuses to heavy assaults :p. interestingly enough while the last two bonuses do not appear to apply to heavy assault missiles in the database it actually looks like they do. eft certainly agrees with me. i have not confirmed this in game however. that could use some fixing while where at it.also the warfare link bonus is no different than any bc gets or carrier gets. how many carriers and do you see with ganglinks?"
"this isn't a question of whether field cs should be fitting gang mods. the question is are they capable of doing so, with sensible fitting choices. the nighthawk is not. hence the required ~140-150 pg boost."
"a. reread the bolded portions of your quote. as you pointed out, the description does not reflect a bonus, and from my understanding the bolded syntax is how the bonuses operate in-game. not to mention, the missile precision portion of the bonuses is essentially useless. however, that is for another thread another day. have to fight one battle at a time!b. carriers rarely use gang links for two reasons - 1. command ships in gang should be using them. 2. they have better things to use in those highs  and the grid/cpu to fit them .however, gypsio stated above a better explanation of the problem. any ship that can fit a module, and is designed to do so, should be judged according to its design philosophy. it would be akin to saying that exhumers make fine substitutes for logistics ships when fit properly. sure, they may, but look at the purpose behind a ship's bonuses in order to put it to its proper use."
"looking at the database as far as i can tell the bonus applies to both, the description is wrong. however, i don't have a nighthawk pilot anymore. if someone can confirm/deny this in game?  eg undock a ham nighthawk and shoot something unresisted with scourge and with something else to see if one does more damage .why should field command ships use them? certainly fleet should with the bonus to effectiveness, but why should field? field command ships also have better things to do with those highs \"and the grid/cpu to fit them\".basically the issue with the nighthawk isn't that i am not fitting it with a ganglink, its that i need a reactor control ii and awuv to have a prayer of fitting it. so yes boost the pg, but not because it can't fit a ganglink."
"that would be news to me, and is good news concerning the damage. but the missile precision bonus is still utterly worthless.the nighthawk does not have the grid to fit anything meaningful in that last high slot. hell, the nighthawk doesn't even have the grid to fit a basic heavy missile launcher setup. to quote my opening post -regardless, i'm preaching to the choir here. you've clearly read the thread, and have eloquently stated your case. i can't say i disagree with any of it, other than i believe in fitting gang mods on command ships, whether they are field commands or not."
"this is wrong question to ask. the correct question to ask is \"are the field cs able to fit gang mods?\". the answer, of course, is that three of them can do so without too much trouble, but the nighthawk cannot.in any case, there's little point flying a field cs without a gang mod - you'd normally be better off in a bs. the nano-sleip is the exception, but nobody's asking for the sleipnir to be nerfed."
"i fully support this idea"
"just adding the blue cross, red star, etc on the targeting icon would be enough.i'd also like a \"never fire hostile effects on friendlies\" option i can tick as i hate that thing that happens when a target dies as you are activating weapons and your cursor jumps to another target - that can end up with you shooting friends."
"thumbs up for this good idea."
"/signed.. again! please make this append <3"
"this item is being discussed next csm meetin  i think both bane and myself brought it up o_o "
"well, in a general sense i have no huge problem with different ships, in different races being different. i wouldn't want there to be 4 carbon copies of the thorax, each with a different paint job. i agree entirely with your point, that the carriers are a bit samey. at the same time though, there's some shipclasses that exist solely to fill a particular combat niche. interceptors would one that springs to mind - they exist to be fast and tackle stuff, and maybe do a bit of damage. as far as i'm concerned, blockade runners are quite comparable - they're not all _that_ variant, but that's as much because they have about the same slot count as an inty anyway. but like an inty, core to their operation as a viable ship, is the ability to fit a mwd. i can see the furore right now, if ccp decided that actually crows and raptors should be afterburner ships  although, to be fair, the craptor might as well be - it's not like you can actually fit guns _and_ a mwd, but that's less of a problem because the crow exists "
"this poster has interesting and fun ideas. i think these ideas could easily be extended to the empire stations that exist as well  as in, it turns out that jita iv-4  the planet  is able to produce a lot of high-tech trade goods... so those are available cheap in the iv-4 station, etc. kind of like tradewars 2002  hahahaha, sweet bbs games...  brought to eve. but it makes rp sense, and makes trade-good hauling a potentially useful and interesting miniprofession. especially if done in real time  player a and player b both pick up huge loads of trade good x for delivery at planet z; player a gets there first and makes a killing, player b gets there second and ... is stuck with a load of trade good x . have to manage this in terms of not revolving it around dt like the old trade goods system used to do, so freighter pilots in some tzs got rich... but i really like the idea.needs balancing, like everything else. but great initial idea, hope it goes somewhere. will lead to some neurotic traders constantly refreshing their market windows... :d"
"it would be nice to have a logistics ship with a high sensor strength and bonuses to projected eccm optimal range/strength. at present you can either be jammed or waste one or two med-slots for eccm modules on each ship in the fleet, which can sometimes be very hard  especially for amarr due to the lack of med slots . projected eccm on the other hand is unviable because it requires two ships to boost each other's sensor strength. if one ship is jammed, the other is much easier to jam. option a: a new logistics ship would introduce a new attractive way to combat jamming and would add greater flexibility to fleet setups. it would also encourage specialization and teamwork. option b: c/d?edit: aarh... paragraphs"
"this problem is pretty well known among the outlaw portion of players. if you assist an outlaw  i'll use remote repair as an example  it gives the repairer a criminal flag regardless of the outlaw's current status. this means that the sentry guns will attack a character who remote reps an outlaw, even if the outlaw has no flag and is not being attacked by sentries. there is also a sec hit of -0.25%, half of the hit for criminal aggression.my question is why is it like this? if you assist someone at war, you are flagged to his war targets, if you assist someone under sentry fire, you come under fire too. that makes sense. but why should you come under fire and have a sec hit simply for helping an outlaw? i suggest the mechanic is changed to give the repairer the temporary equivalent of an outlaw flag; anyone would be able to shoot him but he would not come under sentry fire without further aggression from either him or the people he is assisting.edit: i'm not sure if people are quite understanding the distinction i'm making between outlaw and global criminal flag. outlaws don't automatically take sentry fire unless they perform a further criminal act, so why should someone assisting the outlaw be treated as a criminal? if you assist someone with a global criminal flag, nothing needs changing from the current mechanics.edit 2: a further thing that i've just had pointed out to me. it's legal for someone to kill and pod their corpmates in high sec, yet it's illegal for someone to remote repair an outlaw corpmate. do you still not see the problem here?"
"because technically the outlaw is at war with the ruling societies hence the gcc making you in effect an accomplice to the outlaw."
"i don't see what the issue is here. if anything, there should be more penalties, right?"
"my point is that an outlaw could be sitting at a station doing nothing, taking no sentry fire because he has not attacked someone. another player activating a remote rep on the outlaw would take a sec hit and sentry fire for doing so.to give a good example of why this is a problem, i'll give you a scenario of a gang of outlaws fighting a gang of war targets. the war targets are legal targets, so the outlaws can engage without taking sentry fire. if one of those outlaws attempts to assist a gang mate with a remote rep, he gets a criminal flag and starts taking sentry fire. this makes no sense to me - the sentry guns are happy to let the outlaws fight without interfering, but they aren't allowed to assist each other."
"ugh, i knew this sort of argument would come up. you effectively want outlaws to be under constant fire everywhere, making it very difficult to fly small ships. maybe we shouldn't be allowed to dock either. oh, and sorry if you were joking, it's hard to tell in text"
"yes, i was joking. do to aggro for \"criminals\" in a logical fashion would hurt more gameplay than it would help and remove a style that ccp has actively encouraged.that said i don't see any issue with the current game mechanics. it was specifically put in not that long ago. *shrugs*"
"was it? it's not a change i remember. it just seems odd to me that the penalty for helping an outlaw is harsher than the penalty for simply being an outlaw. making the repairer a legal target for everyone for 15 minutes would make more sense."
"the system should be more like this:if you assist an outlaw you get 15minute global allowed to shoot; however, if the player you are assisting does something which flags him it should than flag you."
"that is exactly what i was suggesting, thanks for putting it more concisely than i managed."
"this is another area of the game about which i know nothing, but it is silly for you to be penalized for helping an outlaw more than the outlaw is penalized.assisting an outlaw should put you in the same security boat as the outlaw is currently in - if under fire, you come under fire, if a legal but unfired upon target in high-sec, you become a legal but unfired upon target in highsec, with the standard timers.supporting giving consideration to this issue, since it seems silly right now."
"i want that the csm will bring to the ccp the following issue:why the european player need to play more than the rest of world for the same product? paying with credit card is a 14.95 euro per month for europe  including vat  and 14.95$ for the rest of the world. if we consider that i need to pay vat for the 14.95$ the price is 17.7905$. but at current euro - dollar exchange 1 euro = 1.5852 dollars today. so we from europe need to pay 23.69874 instead of 17.7905 so there are 5.90824 more than the rest of the world  33% more in fact . when the 30 days gtc where still in, we from europe we had at least the options to buy a gtc and so paying aprox. the same price as the rest of the world, but now we don't have no option."
"perhaps you should take up this vat related issue with your government and ask them why they are charging it."
"yep, welcome to the european union.in order for ccp to provide you the ability to play eve the governments are going to charge them vat on the service  just like they do all mmorpgs now "
"as i mentioned, the problem is not the vat. because with vat i will need to pay 17.7905$, and i accept that. but ccp is charging me 23.69874$  33% more . and again, why i should pay 33% more than the rest of the world  more is considered what is above 17.7905$ - 14.95$ + vat ?"
"are there international charges on your debit/credit card added in?i know many companies/banks add them in as well."
"tax and bank charges are besides the point. ccp has nothing to do with those surcharges.the problem is that european players are paying about a third more for the same service. that has to change.edit:to clarify: there will always be fluctuations in exchange rate and i certainly don't expect ccp to follow the daily exchange rate. a small difference isn't a problem. the price difference has become unreasonably large though. i'm sure ccp's records show massive amounts of european players switching from credit card to gtc, but we shouldn't have to."
"get a breakdown of the bill, so you know what the price is.$5 is likely a bank surcharge added in with the vat, or simply a conversion of currency values.till you have a detailed bill showing what makes up what on the bill, you don't know.and it's not ccp's fault if they have to charge more for vat and related charges. the price listed doesn't include them."
"quick, lets be ***gots and base the price of every good and service on the planet off of the united states dollar and drive it into the ground!if you don't know how currency exchange works then stfu please."
"that's as much speculation on your part as it is on mine. fact is, ccp is charging the exact same ticket price in two different currencies, when one of those currencies is a little over 150% the value of the other one. it's a reasonable assumption they're not using math voodoo to determine the exact pre-tax price point where both currencies meet after their their respecive taxes and surcharges have been applied."
"please check stats before you post.all medium weapon types get lower cpu for short range fit.all medium weapons except ham's get lower grid fit for short range while ham's get a rather stiff penalty that means losing tank/damage modifiers.gun users get to fit more damage mods and tank if they go for short range weaponery.missile users have to use more fitting mods if they go for ham short range weaponery.this means dropping tank and damage mods.basically putting the ham user back where he started dps wise but still suffering the range decrease.this is a issue for any ship fitting ham's not just caldari.lets not get into ship issues here there are other threads for that.btw what would you fit on a onyx if not launchers , it has no turret slots ?."
"your comparison is irrelevant. weapons are not balanced on the basis of pretty patterns, but on their abilities. jav hams do almost the dps of faction hms to almost the same range, making hamls unquestionably a better weapon system than hmls - the inability to fit fofs and the larger explosion radii are largely inconsequential. giving hamls lower pg than hmls, as well as cpu, would be absurd.dps on an onyx is also irrelevant. it's there to tackle, so it needs mods that help it tackle. therefore, nos, as defence against neuts, and smartbombs, as defence against drones  particularly ecm drones , are a better choice."
"so you'll be happu if f.e. medium autocannons needed 20% more pg than artilery and had 300 resolution ? i mean you cannot rely on pretty patterns so why bother ?"
"yes, fix this"
"i said that weapons are balanced based on their abilities. you're being silly."
"from what i have read this is my best idea for sovereignty control in 0.0 space. we need to keep the pos in 0.0 since there are so many of them would not be fair to just make them all disappear. but i would suggest adding a smaller defensive building that can help claim space in 0.0. make it a defensive platform with low or none fuel cost. so large and small corporation can expand more easily without needing superhuman players mining round the clock.the other feature that would be necessary to maintain this kind mass empire growth would be a small siege mode ship. make it about cruiser class ship that has the ability to take down the defensive platforms and the poses in 10 to 12 blast. this will force larger alliances to claim only the amount of space they can upkeep. it will also make it easier for smaller corps to take part in 0.0 interaction. there is the issue that 12 siege ships could just shot at once. to counter that these ships could take a bit of time to setup, and that the reduction in empire size would help alliance be more aware of the space they own.the last thing i had in mind is a method to exchange a pos for isk so that not all the pos that are active will be destroy by these new cruisers.thanks for reading. i do have to give credit to a gax blogger sara pickell for the siege cruiser idea."
"there is a big difference in beams and lasers. the fitting requirements on beams is terrible. meanwhile i can fit blasters and rails on gallente......acs and artys on minmatar.....and missles or rails on caldari without sacrficing to much tank. i got empty slots on alot of my amarr ships because i cant fit the rest of my tank when fitting beams. a decrease in powergrid for beams has been long over due. please lets bring this topic up and get a resolution of some kind."
"completely agree logoffski is broken.if you log at a gate and are scrammed before you emergency warp - you are held there until either you are blown up or let go.if you emergency warp to a safe spot, you stay for 2 minutes during which time if you're not scrammed, your ship leaves the game.if you are pvp'd flag at any time, you maintain a 15 minute timer before your ship leaves the game - regardless of connection state."
"wel if ur gona delete my only defense, then atlest giv freiters huighslots an medium slots adn maybe lowslots? so i can atlest defend my self"
"there are defenses: corpmates, alt scouts.whoever jumps a friggin freighter unscouted into lowsec deserves to lose it.i think you're trolling us anyways, so gtfo!"
"missions or mining hard.... i think not"
"i'm against being pushed into anything. having the option to group up is fine, but being forced to do it would be stupid. it removes the elements of choice and freedom from the eve experience, and eve's supposed to be a sandbox.for instance, right now i'm in a 2-man corp with me, myself, and my zero skill training, same-account placeholder alt. what would someone like me do if i couldn't make decent isk by myself?i'm taking a break from the corporate lifestyle - after 4 years of it, i got tired of expectations, mandatory ops, and all of the other stuff you have to do as a member of an active corporation. i'm enjoying the freedom to do whatever the **** i want when i want, and be damned to anyone who says otherwise, and i don't *want* to be in a corp with other people trying to tell me what to do right now.edit: plus, the ability to log on and just go make some decent isk without having to spam \"55 million sp pvper lfg to do missionz!\" for 15-30 minutes after logging on is one of the reasons i much prefer eve to traditional mmos.most definitely not supported."
"fix lvl 5 missions and make them a profitable group activity. do not let cap ships go in those missions, just battleships."
"exactly, and you want to make somewhat mandatory the \"wait till the rest of your friend is on line\" game stile for missions? it is more than sufficient to have to wait hours for a 0.0 gang, in mission it is the worst possible thing to add."
"i think people are missing that these are new things to be added, so the existing solo earning methods would remain.given that i support this as a goal - although i'd be interested to see some more concrete examples than the current vague ones."
"op is mostly a whine thread, albeit a very good one -- identifies a problem, identifies a lot of non-solutions, but doesn't really propose anything new. but i'm supporting it anyway, because i want more people to think about this.i will suggest some concrete possibilities, both based on the idea of triggered activities involving gang size.1  make mission spawns scalable in terms of the number of people in the gang, and maybe the ship types if applicable, of the player owning the mission. for a given spawn, assign points to npc combat ship types, and determine the number of points to spawn in based on the spawn-triggering gang size, on a slow-growth exponential. one possibility might be that the normal spawn is 3 battlecruisers for a single player, but with 2 players, you might get a battleship and two battlecruisers, or 5 battlecruisers out of the spawn. more players in gang == larger, more interesting, more lucrative spawns == win. probably have to cap gang sizes for missions, lest 100 man-gangs hop into missions and spawn hundreds of battleships to kill... of course, tanking that would be interesting in its own right. :d needs balancing, but the idea has some merit, i think.2  apply this same idea to other areas of the game, particularly exploration. even a mining site could be spawned bigger  more rocks, higher quality, etc.  if there are multiple people in system for the explorer that first triggers the spawn in that explorer's gang. and of course, any guards get spawned bigger, too. : more interesting npcs would help a lot here too... imagine jumping into a mission with 3 friends, only to get jumped by a bunch of multiple km/s tacking scramblers and a nano-hac npc gang. that'd be interesting. : just some thoughts. i am in *favor* with the ops idea of making the game more amenable to group play. that's always a good idea."
"supported, but needs to be worked out. everyone would like a pew pew mode of earning iskies with your corpmates."
"there is a very big problem with this, exp can only apply to one character. but with isk, it can be transfered around, so if someone makes like 10 alts just to go ratting, they get 10x the isk for no extra work. rawr you lose."
"the problemthere have been in the past incidents that have led to the erosion of trust that ccp employees are not abusing their positions to favor their own in game alliance or corporation over others, most notably the t2 bpo scandal of a year ago, which was partially responsible for the formation of the csm.now, i want ccp employees to enjoy the game just as much as i do, indeed, i wouldn't want to play a mmo that the devs didn't also enjoy because the results are usually disastrous  star wars galaxies, the devs didn't play, nor liked it, altered it to suit them, lost 200k+ players .however, given that the 0.0 endgame, and even the empire economic game are political and can be affected game wide by the powers that devs and other ccp employees have it is important that we, as players are able to trust that in game, as a player, no ccp employee will be able to do anything that any of us cannot do. there is a perception out there that certain alliances get favored treatment because of the number of ccp employees who are members, backed up by the fact that this has happened in the past  aforementioned t2 bpo scandal . something more than the csm and \"internal affairs\" needs to be done to rebuild this bridge of trust.proposed solutionthe answer to speculation and rumor, of course, is fact. so i propose, that on a monthly basis that ccp release a count  not names  of employee characters that are members of each alliance. all ccp employees should be required to report to ccp how many characters/accounts they have to internal affairs, and any event of joining or leaving any non npc corp/alliance.thee count would be released to us as statistics only. no names, just \"foom alliance 3 employees\" etc.what this would achievesince it would now be known how many employees are in each alliance, this would serve as a serious disincentive for any ccp employee to intervene on behalf of their own in game interests, and to be \"covert\" as in making sure that no one knows their true identities. this would force ccp employees to self police.example: if \"foom alliance\", which has 3 ccp employees as members, suddenly starts getting ships reimbursed left and right, whilst their rival \"boom alliance\", with 0 ccp employees don't, even in the same battle with, let's say a node crash happened, there could be an investigation to see if improprieties were committed. my feeling is no such thing would ever happen, as alliances that knew they had employees in them would themselves be on their toes to prevent any perception of favoritism."
"do you honestly believe this would lead to anyone trusting ccp more? look at caod and alliance politics in general - the only thing this would create is more distrust as people will immediately blame any loss to their rivals on ccp  \"they have more ccp employees than us, that's why they won!\" .in addition, wouldn't this lead to witch hunts as alliance leaders tried to determine which of their members were actually developers for the purpose of either outing them, trying to take advantage of them, or unfairly influence them?i think that we need more transparency, but sadly this isn't the correct way to go about it."
"if you don't trust ccp to begin with, why would you trust any numbers given out by ccp? this addresses a non-issue, really. waste of resources."
"we actually had a discussion about this during our meeting.internal affairs is already aware which employees have which characters where. in addition, as far as i know, all previous characters are deleted when someone becomes a ccp employee. and they continously monitor all ingame activity of all employees, with screening of all their logs.any further abuse would be highly unlikely."
"while that is good  if true  it's not good enough. too much of the fox guarding the henhouse. ccp took a serious credibility hit with the t20 scandal, and trust is harder to rebuild than it is to build.i think transparency in the form of making the count public is still the best way to do this. even with ia knowing  what is reported anyway  where their characters are and what they are doing, it's not enough. ccp can't stop isk farmers from a third world country from operating, they certainly can't stop their employees from maintaining accounts and characters they don't know about if they are determined to do so. this is why it's important to know where the devs are playing. ccp isn't going to act on anything unless we know about it and force them to. hell, they never even fired the dev who caused this to begin with. a dev determined to cheat could very well be on the level with the accounts he reported, but not with the one s  that he does not. unless ia has a reason to check, they likely won't."
"these two statements don't make much sense when put together. if the devs are playing on a different account with different billing information  i.e. using their spouse/relatives name , how will this suggestion change any of that?"
"just having it known that there is a dev in the alliance will prevent shenanigans. those hidden accounts wouldn't be so hidden at that point."
"but how will they know if the dev is using different billing information?"
"hmm, lets see, ccp announce that there are 2 devs and a gm in <insert alliance name here>. <insert alliance name here> internal forum admin automatically searches for ip addresses originating from iceland - ding ding ding, now we know who the devs are...sorry, no thumb for this one."
"problem: 0 and o look the sameeffect: they can be mistaken for each other. this problem is extremely annoying if one is trying to pronounce system names so that others can type it in and does not know whether that circle is an o and an 0. if a system name contains more than one o or 0, the possible variations space expands exponentially : proposed solution: fix the font! make o thicker or strike through the 0 diagonally."
"6 and g are also hard to tell apart in the in game font."
"so are the 6 and &."
"for me it's 8's and 9's, could just be the size of the font though"
"the only solution: use a font with serifs!"
"i want to hold him, to pet him, to squeeze him and love him! i will call him mr. scruffles and he will be the bestest puppy in new eden!*huggles!*"
"i suppwort my cuteness."
"introduction of puppies will take a minimum of developer time and add something new and interesting for empire-dwellers and carebears in general to use. supported."
"my personal view:should all capitals be allowed to us jbs? i would say no. if you were to prevent motherships and titans from utilising a jb network you would vastly neuter the big complaint about titan blobs in cynojammed systems. if the defenders were limited to normal caps things would be a bit more balanced.the reason i'm in favour of not killing the whole mechanic is capital industrials. if you can't move a jf or rorqual around cynojammed space you might as well not have them. any change made to prevent capital blobs needs to remember that not all caps are offensive."
"i support that post i quoted. before any salvage thief repeats the same old failed logic that the wreck is not owned by anyone, we could change it to \"...can't be salvaged by players that are not in the same gang/corp/alliance as the player whose name is on the wreck.\""
"so does this mean that caod is the official militia sub-forum?"
"i most certainly not hope so. too much 0.0 entities around here who never give a **** about fw but feel the need to post and actually read it anyway. but they don't give a fu<k about fw.....actually i like the chaos in fw. that keeps the fun in it instead of fat 0.0 blokes being all damn serious about the fights. backstabbing, blobbing, bubbeling, smacking etc. great tactics in 0.0....i do not mind you guys giving advice, but keep the smack in other threads."
"what are you talking about, i think you have me confused for someone else.as of right now the only fleets i have led the past 2 months, were 2 amarr militia fleets early on.as of right now i have led no caldari fleets, and i am also just a member of taco's revolution, not a director, not a ceo, not a founder. this toon is the only alt in caldari militia. all the others are not involved in fw.the actions of the corp that i am involved in are not my responsibility, i have no leadership position other then fc'ing my own fleets, which i can do from any corp including the npc ones if i really wanted to."
"in other news, i plan to run a roaming gang tonight, if no one else is running any good gangs/ nothing is going on.ill tell you what to fly when the time comes."
"killing caldari is a dirty job but someones got to do it."
"but the inconsistency with that is  of which i am speaking, and you are ignoring  when a pvp battle occurs, and player a blows up player b's ship, the loot in player b's ship belongs to ... wait for it ... player b!  this is why player a is usually angry when scavengers come and loot the wrecks, because they cannot shoot them!  to be consistent, if you blow up a rat, the loot should also belong the rat itself, and that would mean no aggro to anyone when the looted it.if you want consistency, let's go all the way. the loot from the missions is also fair game.there. fixed. happy?oh, and by the way, i didn't invent ninja salvaging, but i did perfect it! so, the next time you want to shoot your mouth off and say i don't know what i'm talking about, don't."
"let's go the other way. the salvage from the missions is also aggro flagged.there. fixed. happy?"
"/me facepalms.ok then, while we're throwing out stupid ideas, how about if you shoot me while i'm in your mission, after i get aggro for salvaging the wrecks, my entire corp gets aggro on you?i mean, since we're throwing out our best moronic ideas, after all.../me mutters, \"these mission runners just never learn...\""
"i would check what ship you are flying and would act accordingly."
"i'm sorry - you're confusing morality with legality.currently stealing it is 'legal' which doesn't make it 'right'.in the real world if i walk onto your property, beat you up, take your crap and kick you off your own land with no compensation i expect you would agree with me that such behaviour is unethical.however in zimbabwe if you are the government or one of their buds - it's legal. which doesn't make it the least bit more right.i, however, still see taking my salvage as stealing and you may count on me treating it as such even if i have to pop some of my own profit, warp out to let the rats have the ninja or jump them in a ship fitted for suicide gank.everyone is entitled to their opinion of course - but i plan on backing mine up with blasters."
"so one thing that makes this game pretty great is the fact that over time you can get into better ships and have more power behind those ships. but i have been thinking that unfortunately while at the same time it makes it great it might turn off the newer players to eve. this game is dominated by the older players with no way of anyone new coming tot he game of really competing. i thought that maybe if some kind of newb player areas were introduced that perhaps it would bring more folks to eve. get them into the action faster. and i don't mean like high security space i mean like newb low sec or some such where those nwere to eve could pvp each other without the older players poping them or harassing them till they are ready to get out into that kind of thing. alot of the newer players i believe get turned off by the fact that it takes so long to get anywhere even close to the older players and they can hardly compete in anything like pvp or what not with them. this game certainly takes a long while to get into alot of exciting things but i believe if some newb areas were introduced it would be alot more interesting right off the bat."
"if only there was something like... oh, i don't know... a faction warfare system where the ship sizes were limited to cheap low end craft, making it easier for new players to compete on the same playing field as older players, learn some starter pvp skills and get generally get their feet wet.if only, eh?"
"ah but thats where your wrong. the faction warfare system also has other more skilled players competing in it. what im talking about is with only those players of the lower skill in the area not all the players. a small cheap ship fitted with t2 is still fairly destructive."
"join. a. player. corp."
"perhaps but what the point of what i am suggesting is to make the game alittle more interesting at first. joining a corp sure it might be interesting depending on the corp. and alot of new players dont nessacerily want to join a play corp at first. they are too shy, too good for it, want to get acclimated or whatever to the game first. i remember the first corp i was in it wasn't all that exciting...rat here etc etc. i personally think the best thing about this game is pvp but the newer folks cant compete with the older players in that at all and end up leaving or just not signing on anymore even if they are in a player corp because they are blown out of the sky easily."
"that's the funny thing about eve. everyone is blown out of the sky easily.finding a corp who will run pvp gangs isn't that hard especially now that faction warfare exists. all you have to do is get in a frigate, join a gang, and hope someone else is primary."
"yes everyone is but when your new to eve and all you do is get blown out of the sky it becomes very difficult to find reasons to stay. and as for joining a corp and such well some can do it some cannot all depends on circumstance and well i just would not rather leave it up to circumstance anymore. i think that adding areaas that only newer players can go into would make it easier for them to get into fighting rather than having to join or such."
"eve if they brought it back, it qowuld be mroe expnesive...\ccp wanted to rais prices to refelct their needs, and nothing is going to change that, rather close the game down than function at a loss or with limited developement capability"
"just buff citadel torpedo damage and speed imo.better than changing a bunch of other **** to compensate for low dps."
"what about hp as well? one of the other big concerns i see coming up a lot with the phoenix is the fact it's easy to just smartbomb citadel torps"
"1. faction warfare seems to have turned into a great success2. jita have always been laggy and will always be laggy as long as people like you streaming into the systems it will never become better!so you are wrong on both accounts.sorry, but if you are going to whine, at least ensure you got your case right!"
"if i remember correct, there are no ingame kb because ccp dont want to put the focus on number of kills, but raterher on the war itself. i think that is a good thing. killboards are really too counter strike. ie. not a good thing."
"the focus already is on the almighty kb. they just mostly lie, barring a few notable exceptions. *shrugs*"
"killboards are the one of the worst player developments to ever tarnish what eve truly is.the only reason my corporation has one, is because several of the members wanted to keep track of what they kill and lose. if it wasn't for that, i wouldn't have bothered.to be honest, i'd rather see the removal of killmails all together."
"the problem of the pre-changed dampeners was that you could fit them on almost every ship to have a good portion of ewar with you. they were in my opinion just to strong on non specialized ships.however after the change they are fine on regular ships imho. but the gallente recons and the eas are suffering badly from that. lets do what have many people done before and compare it to the falcon. a single falcon on the battlefield means in any case that at least  !  one of you ships is completely out of the game. in some cases this could of couse also mean 2 or 3 ships..... the falcon is sitting at 200 km while doing that, a range where noone in a usual roaming gang can lock it.ok, back to the gallente ships. with an gallente recon you have to be in med or close range combat to get the full effectivenes of your damps. a single damp in this combat range is mor the less useless, so you have to spend all your damps  lets asume 3  on one single ship. after that  because of th weakness of the damps, stacking and so on...  most ships will still have a locking range of 10 to 20 km. if you now think of all the close range ships out there in small gang warfare which have to get closer then 10 km to shoot anyway, and also all the speedships which could come in closer in almost no time to tackle you again. this isn't very nice at all.some of you guys will now say, hey the gallente ships have those cool scram range bonuses as well..... yeah and they are right...this was one of the features of these ships because of which i have trainied them.....but novadays you have interceptors with their new scram range bonuses and their speed, as well as their small signature radius they are the much better tacklers in my personal opinion.so the conclusion of this is as follows....there is atm no reason to bring one of those formerly so nice gallente ewar ships. if you want a tackler, you take a much cheaper ceptor if you want ewar.... a falcon obviously is the better choice.so what to do about that issue. thats of couse not easy, because a gallente recon should'nt be an i-win button. i personal favor a dampener strength bonus increase on those ships, so that you can take out one  but not more  ships out of the combat, which means for me lockrange around 5km. if this seems to overpowered in a 1 vs 1 situation, then i would think of giving up the damage bonus of the recons and maybe a smaller drone bay......these ships are for nasty ewar stuff not for damage. a second possibility would be to give an optimal  !  range bonus to those ships, so that they can sit at 150 km while dampening their targets. this would make them usefull in some anti sniper situations but of couse the cool scram range bonus would be useless ...and @topic supporting this"
"support"
"i would like to add to the above that currently heavy interdictors with their focused infinipoint can scram at t1-scramrange-on-a-gal-recon and do not need to sacrifice any of their other options to achieve this.also, once rsds start having a chance to fail, they tecnically become ecm modules lacking the ability to effect close range targets. ecm also does not suffer from stacking penalies, 2 ecms are twice as effective.i hope you are not suggesting using a celestis as a combat vessel, the weaponry on the celestis only suffices to scare off an unexperienced tackler pilot in frigate sized craft  which, imho is ok, since it is not a combat ship please notice that mentioning a tank in conjuction with celestis class ships  that fit their medslots according to the bonuses  is a bit weird.once the enemy comes below dampener range, the ship is lost with a 100% probability. the ecms on the blackbird class or the cap neutralization from arbitrator class vesels have higher chances to prevent destruction.you can not nano and tank and ewar it. it makes a bad nano due to insufficient cap and low top speed, a buffer tank is possible, but it is a weak one. it can not gank, because even with bonuses, it does very little dps. 60% of those mentioned 200  which is only true if you use close range antimatter  come from hammerhead t2 drones which have to enter close range an can be destroyed.plus the ships have cap issues.this is not true, a single t2 dampener will take ~45% off your targeting range  using an arazu with all skills at 5 and a range dampening script . a hurricane can lock ~25km  skills at 3  under this condition  ~45km for a ferrox . if you ment a disruptor on an arazu/lachesis ok.yes, i took the race with the lowest locking range, note however that exactly this race can close the lock-out zone very fast and also often uses explosive damage."
"signed. specialized rsd ships should actually function close to what existed pre-nerf...edit:to answer the csm quesiton, the point of gallente ewar ships should be to force their opponents to get up close and personal. that fits right in the whole gallente fighting doctrine  blasters anyone? ."
"i'm loving this idea, but set it so you need a covert cyno to use the portal to jump your friends.but on a side note the cost of the bo ships is the fact they cost to much. there is no point using a ship with this high cost when you can just use a smaller group of e.g nano hacks to do similar hit and run strikes."
"bo was \"designed\" to make something behind enemy lines just give them the ability to port a squad in any system eve if have cynojammer  that means 10 players in non-capital ship"
"a copy-paste from my post on a ships/mod thread:right: time to do this i think:black ops proposals:1. allow cov ops cloaks.- nukes the speed bonus  has no real role , so goes base speed.- removes the scan res problems that have been experienced- gives black ops a true 'guerilla warfare' stealth apeal- doesnt make them overpowered: a force recon, that has the movement of a bs = easy to catch when organised2. all black ops to have their roles to be changed to their recon variants:- widow : ecm strength, ecm range, same bs bonus  missile velocity + rof - sin : scramble range, sensor damp effectiveness, same bs bonus  drone damage/hp, blaster damage - panther : web range/effectiveness, target painting effectiveness, same bs bonus  large proj rof and damage - redeemer : nos/neut range  note! not nos amount! , tracking disrupting effectiveness, same bs bonus  cap use reduction, turret rof purpose of these changes: force recons are somewhat balanced to a greater extent imo.the falcon might be somewhat overpowered, and thus a battleship variant is again, a bit too strong. but for such a highly spec'd and expensive ship, i personally believe it should be a bit better than a 70 mil falcon:p  damage ability .the panther bonus i believe is balanced, due to the ability to act like a normal bs, but with uberstrong webs, gives it the bonus of speed  out of their web range  along with damage. gives it a nice little combo above the rapier .the sin is somewhat underpowered in the most part, due to the damps not being that fantastic. however, the flip side is, an 80km scramble range. who needs tacklers when you have a bs that can do it from 80km off eh? snipe with sentries, highs/mods as drone mods...perfect imo. damps play a part for those not sensorboosted.the redeemer some might as about. the reason ive suggested range rather than amount, is of the current pilgrim crisis. the ship is seen as underpowered, due to the bonuses. the bonus of range is very useful, as it stops 'counter-neuting' along with the other close range issues/nesessities, such as tank  14km neut range = web range = death for speed tankers  along with overall tackling issues. replacing the pilgrim's bonus with range instead of neut/nos amount would be on the road to fixing it. likewise would be benifitial to the redeemer. scenario here would be low slot tank, neuts in high, tracking disruptors in low. helps the rest of the crew if getting shot at, and the redeemer can always tank.on the topic of tank: i also propose black ops gain a tad bit of tank. nothing major, but something a bit better than 'cruiser' status  which, lets be fair...it is . no actual numbers, or thoughts on this - other than, id like to be able to see my widow atleast stay above 60% shields, when a drake launches a single volley at me :pfinally, jump drives - we need to have more range, a fuel bay, and personally, some other 'extra' for the jump bridge. as of right now, the jump bridge is rather limited. as is the jump range. my proposed change is that of  as others have suggedted  allow black ops to 'jump' to a sun of a system. by doing so, it gives an easy opportunity for folks to restrict black ops movement  laying a bubble at a sun for example , yet adds a role to black ops. combined with that, it gives a jump-drive ship the reduced need for a 'second character' scenario, where you always have to alt tab, just to play.further to improve this, i believe cov ops cynos should work in cyno-jammed systems. this would then allow folks to jump portal covert ships behind enemy lines, in complete secrecy  as to location . this is still however possible without a cyno  via the sun , however for organised groups, the latter is far more risky.i have no doubt that what ive said is overpowered, unbalanced, and so on. however, from where im sitting, there a major holes in the black ops atm. we need to start somewhere :p"
"yes moar"
"how were they intended to be used? do enlighten us."
"clearly jump clones were intended to make it so you could be anywhere at any time.i hope they never lower the time, 24 hours is nothing, especially when you factor in that it allows you to be able to be active anywhere you have a clone as long as you haven't recently jumped, and if need be, you can leave your expensive implant-filled 'main' somewhere safe when going into a risky situation."
"although rank 6 is a bit much i do support a skill that lowers jump time."
"i would finaly use them./signed"
"we could just give everyone jump drives and make implants safely removable, yeah?"
"agree."
"that too"
"thumbs up."
"do you happen to be a candidate for the next csm term ? you'd get my support just for this post !!!."
"so buy the etc with real money instead of isk, or use a  prepaid  credit card and pay less than a method that has a middle man?"
"i agree, there's nothing really wrong with the war dec system. i used to belong to a small corp of about 20 or so players who deced other corps larger than us for fights. if they didn't fight and just ran to a station and hid we'd move on. war decing is a way to still pvp without going into low sec to gate camp and get a sec penalty hit, or going into 0.0 and getting wtfblobbed by large alliances.i do think there needs to be more substance to the war dec system, but like you mentioned. avoiding death is not that hard if you have a head on your shoulders. it's not my fault if i happen to blow up your dominix because you were auto-piloting 6 jumps to jita during a war dec."
"support for this. also the same thing should apply to constelation chat. there you should have only the numbers, not the actual players.for those concerned that removing local will brake 0.0 activities: it will not happen. it will hurt a little only those big alliances with huge chunks of undefended space behind chokepoints. well, some will no longer be able to pay for 5 accounts with farmed isk then"
"i support this idea, and would like to put forth an additional [idea] which might better support it.as 'locater agents' are an attainable resource,  yet only available to a character who has worked at missioning to achieve  i would recommend enhancing the structure, so that when one is station-side, they would be able to perform a scan that could provide them with intel on where a group of war targets might be.this could be a whole other skill set, such as \"science officer\" or some such, whereby scanning the system would be based upon 'chance', with improved identification of war target location based upon the level of skill achieved.let's say that my corporation is at war, and i'm docked up. the warring corporation is currently camped outside my station, and by checking the 'new' local, i get no information on whether or not they are in my system. i use my \"science officer\" skills to do a scan of the system, to find out that there are 2 war targets identified as being 'within range' of my scan.aware that my war targets usually fly small ships like cruisers, i say, \"ok, i'll take my chances and undock in my battleship.\"when i undock, i find out that my skills only identified 2 war targets out of the 10 actual war targets that are camped outside  'failed my saving throw, ftl!'  and get omgwtfbbq'd.i do support the removal of local as an intel device, however, i think we also need the ability to have some type of visibility when undocking, so that we won't need to lose a ship, just to 'test the waters' and see if it's safe to undock the rest of our corporation fleet."
"local change is needed. i'm not too bothered about the details as long as you can no longer instantly see the occupants of a system. the constellation chat option would be fine."
"i support this thread and would like to see formal discussion of the issue with ccp - will be adding it to the agenda for csm discussion on 20/7/2008"
"that's good news.has anyone thought how this would effect gate travel in 0.0? currently, if the system you've entered is empty, you just warp to the next gate. with the local gone every gate would require a scanning bm. maybe ccp could just give us a \"drop-outa-warp\" button?"
"less ability to pick and choose engagements means:less throwing together really expensive ships and expecting to be able to only partake in opportunistic engagements.more surprises and ships looking at each other 30km away wondering if they want to commit to the engagement or not. \"are we both flying bating ships..?\" arazus and rapiers get huge boost to importance.boosts to t1 ships you don't have to worry about losing, because you have to worry about losing everything when any target can be a trap.more traps and shady tactics.more ninja carebear action, especially at complexes, since they could deploy for a long time in a system without drawing attention, and the image of getting ganked while going after a hauler will be in many people's minds.cloakers could use a bit more sensor nerfing. it's a fair trade to lose the ability to force engagements offensively in cases where you want to pick and choose engagements.major changes to undocking risk mechanics. could use some help there."
"well, its freightening how unimaginative ccp is.you tell them \"change all\" and whats their first idea? do it really all at once.hell noone said that. people merely want to save themselves the chore of having to click through each turred and select the proper ammo to reload. then reload the guns where they misclicked again.instead you could just create a simple option, that does this for them on the client side. it will not generate more anything, than what the player alone would have generated. it would merely save your customers some time they could spend working around all the other issues there are with the ui."
"*notes date of post.**looks at calendar.**wonders how long week is to ccp*"
"hahaha good one :- +support"
"well, a year on jupiter is twelve years on earth, so a week there would be about three months here. if ccp were on jupiter, then we should expect a response in about two more months."
"mining... supported!but really the mining missions could get a big lookover as they pretty much suck imo. how... i dunno, but something would be nice to change."
"agreed chribba.why is this thread really overlooked? *the 9 month old post too*"
"definitely needed. saves having to hope for a reply just so you can remember what you wrote!"
"yes please. making general improvements to the evemail system in general would help smaller corps to get off the ground. making it more like a real mail client would really help corp ceos and directors to organize their corps. things like a priority system  for those perma mails with links to kb and corp forums , a way to save drafts  instead of alt-tabing out to word , a more normal inbox or atleast a way to change the organization, not just by sender, but also by date and conversation. just a few more ideas for an improved mail system."
"he was unjustly banned. he only hacked the forums to get proof to post on eve forums for the players to see after he tried telling ccp and they blew him off!he exposed what is most likely the greatest scandal in eve so farunban **********!"
"i think you are all out place, the asm forum is not the place to discuss bannings, let alone request ccp tp ban or unban any player at all. what's next? ask to have the result of petitions reconsidered?"
"i never said we were.the point of an upper bounds example is to demonstrate the underlying problem.the more you \"nerf\" suicide ganking, the more desireable you make it for players to be in npc corps.the protection provided by those corps is free, and asking for it to be increased is somewhat disturbing - especially when the people in those corps also moan that suicide ganking should have a higher cost involved.they ask for a cost increase for attack, and yet are happy to indulge in free \"protection\".  i know it isn't absolute protection, but it is an npc spawn to help you which is not available to members of player corps if they are a victim of a war declaration .concord does not sanction random acts of violence in the space they protect, but they do sanction wars. however, so long as people have a free mechanic they can use to avoid a war, with no penalty, many will abuse it with no regard to how it upsets the general game balance, just so long as they are alright.renforcing that mindset is ultimately bad for the development of the game, and is a much broader issue than the symptom which is getting all the attention in this thread.the proposal i made for non-newbie npc corps managed to bring together some factional protection, and penalties for attackers, which would heavily discourage prolonged war, but would make selective targeting of ships viable.i agree that there needs to be a level of protection as currently exists for new players  which would also restrict some player activities and development, so as to encourage migration to either player run or the new style npc corps , but unfortunately it is being abused to an unbalancing extent by players who really are ready to stand on their own two feet.asking for the penalties for suicide ganking to be increased without addressing those issues is playing in to the hands of those who already abuse the situation.the calls from those who gain free npc help to increase the cost for those who would do them harm are distasteful, especially because they make those calls mainly so they can further absolve themselves from any personal responsibility for their own protection.i am not particularly fond of suicide ganking, but i feel that nerfing it without tackling the larger inbalance is like taking asprin for a brain tumor because your head hurts.that is what annoys me about the csm approach to this whole issue. they are looking at gaining glory by dishing out knee-jerk responses to flavour of the month problems, without actually considering how the whole thing can be used as a jumping off point for widespread game improvements.how about using it to suggest item ownership as a hidden stat on things?if it is in the posession of someone else, that person is flagged to the owner an his player corp - a stolen module fitted to a ship, or something in the cargo, whatever.with skills the \"theif\" might be able to \"clean\" the item, but they would never know 100% for sure if it was tagged in the first place, and failure to remove a tag  if it exists or not  would result in the item being destroyed.that is just an idea off the top of my head, used as an example to point out that there are far more interesting ways to tackle this issue rather than just trying to go with the flow.that is what the csm should be doing."
"oh please.they can operate just as well out of 1 man player corporations.or even larger ones, the only benefit to many for being in a npc corporation is lack of politics and being hassled with wardecs.here is a clue, drive players out of the npc corporations and instead of being able to complain about the evil npc corporation you'll be complaining about the thousands of 1 man corporations. rather than post what i posted here i'll give a link versus de-railing the topic farther from the issue at hand.this nerf is bringing things into balance, because the risk to reward is out of whack currently with suicide ganks.they risk a couple million isk, that they will make up while recovering security hits  and then some  to make easily a couple hundred millions if they pick the right ships.it's so out of whack right now with reward versus risk that they don't bother to scan and pop ships left and right because a few million in loot pushes them into the black due to the insurance payout."
"i believe you have it wrong, honestly.suicide ganking, and protection from, has no impact as to whether someone is in a npc corp or not. if anything npc corpers are at more risk since there is no one to retaliate with a wardec or organized counter suicide.what you are talking about is a completely seperate issue. the wardec mechanics, in the opinion of many players, is broken. that is what keeps them in npc corps. whether it is accurate or not is up for debate right now, but the more you whine that there is no way to wardec them, the more your affirm that thought.there is one way to get more players out of npc corps; increase the sense of security you get being in one. there is a reason why when ccp asked the reason many players were in npc corps for a long time and the response of the vast majority was \"wardecs\".suiciding is a broken mechanic that has nothing to do with npc corps or not. the wardec system is the reason why npc corps are a potentially broken mechanic. fixing one will not effect the other."
"if the only way to attack a player is via a suicide attack then a suicide attack must remain a viable game mechanic.if there is an alternative way to attack a player, then there is no reason to defend suicide attacks.so long as players can choose free immunity from war then suicide attacks are a fair game mechanic response.war declarations and suicide attacks are inter-related, and wishing it were not so does not make you right.you will not be able to fairly balance suicide ganks whilst they remain the only way to attack some players, even if they are a cheap way to attack anyone.the problem isn't that the attacks are too cheap, it is that the cost of avoiding the alternative method of attack is even cheaper.if everyone was a potential war target then it would be perfectly possible  from a balance perspective  to remove high sec suicide ganking completely, because an equal and fair alternative mechanic to attack people would exist.honestly, the solution is a revamp of the war and npc corp systems - anything else is a band-aid for a heart-attack.hell, i don't even think making it more expensive would work anyway.people used to do it even when insurance fell well short of the market price of ships; although ships were easier to kill back then."
"i think you wildly misunderstand my position on this, and maybe you should look up previous posts i have made on this subject.all my suggestions for changing npc corps have imposed heavy and very real penalties on people who declare war on them, which tie in very nicely with factional warfare.personally think the problem isn't with the attitude of people wanting to stay in npc corps to avoid wardecs, but that the possibility even exists.what exactly are they actively doing to gain an immunity that other players can not have, no matter how hard they work at it in a player corp?why should we have 2 classes of players?why should some be able to absolve themselves of a certain level of personal responsibility, with no cost or effort, and yet compete on an equal footing with those who take that responsibility?that whole mindset is bad enough ... but then when they moan that the bubble they live in still isn't strong enough .. eve need the whole war-dec, npc corp, suicide ganking, kill rights, contraband, bounty systems looking at. not in isolation, but as part of a holistic approach to improving the general feel and balance of the game, especially as it exists in empire space.trying to tackle any one of these issues alone is bad enough, but tackling multiple issues without consideration for the others is a recipe for disaster.to be clear:i am not in favour of suicide ganking.i am not in favour of npc corps being open season for war decs.trying to represent me as being 100% either of those positions would be, at best, disingenuous."
"*drum roll* suicides are still an option! you just don't have a risk of 5mil vs a reward gained simply by popping any ship you feel like.you now have to pick your targets.and stop the bs about the npc corps... seriously that record gets old quick. would there be much more difference if they formed 1 man corporations by the thousands? where instead of one group of corps you could whinge about there were legions?because you know it's not economically feasible to wardec a 1-2 man corporation, much less tactically worth it.so what would you do then spew the same blame them spiel but ask for minimum corporate members after x time?"
"i seriously don't understand where you're getting this from. you ignore/miss avon's entire argument and instead rule out any change in the npc corp mechanism because you feel that the particular 'solution' you offered up wasn't good enough. as if what you could dream up was the only possible way to change the system.avon is completely right that suicide ganking is a part of a much greater problem that divides players up into those that are more or less completely secluded from the rest, and those that are a part of the sand box. npc corps have far too few  any  drawbacks and a ton of advantages, and in a game where competition is everything, that just doesn't make any sense.trying to patch together a 'fix' for suicide ganking without fixing the underlaying problems is idiotic at best. disclaimer: i am not saying that all suicide gank victims are in npc corps. i am merely stating that because npc corps are completely safe, suicide ganking is a needed game mechanic. otherwise the balance is shifted even more in favor of staying in the npc corps.as this is a thread about a symptom, we haven't really entered any discussion about solutions to the overlying problem, but rest assured: what you noted as the only solution is far from."
"please, there is no problem.you have all the complaints: but i can't wardec them because they are in npc corporations, with no incentive to leavenerf/restrict the npc corporation and you get a legion of 1 man corporations. so you can wardec them, 1 at a time.most are still going to be protected, since there are legit ways to counter a wardec  or even boost the price for one up to make it prohibitively expensive - war targets don't have to engage each other, even with mutual wardecs  in a way similar to a spider tank.read the link. instead of one target, adjusting npc corporations gives you a ton more of them, that you can't ***** about anymore.  unless it's about how all these damn 1 man corporations are annoying since you can't wardec or deal with them all this patch changes the equation, it does not remove the suicide gank.  you actually have to work to break even or profit from the gank vs being out a piddling amount on a failed gank or for picking an empty ship "
"did you not read my post at all? i mean, i know some people have this tl;dr problem, but then they really shouldn't be engaging in a debate, should they?what you did in your post  again  was ignoring the overall argument and focus on setting up a strawman. nobody has said that we should change the system so that instead of an npc corp we have tons of 1-player corps. that's not a feasable change and we all understand this. the problem is that nobody is discussing that. we are just arguing that a change to npc corp mechanics is needed, because they offer too much protectiong with too little disadvantages. now, stop making up strawman arguments and discuss this properly, or kindly stfu."
"and suiciding will remain a valid tactic. the difference is that you will have to want to kill the person. if you don't want them dead enough to pay the cost of the ship, you don't really want them. after all, what is the price of a ship? domi or geddon, fitted is some 60m? 2/3rds that if you build it yourself?if they were in a pc corp and your wardecs were full you would probably spend several hundred million on mercs to wardec them. the cost of a suicide ship is cheap even without insurance compared to either you or them hiring mercs during a war.the cost of a suicide ship right now its non-existant."
"and they still will use it. the difference is they will use it when they want the person dead, or against targets that are guarenteed to make them a profit.the haulers moving 10-20m of junk won't be a viable target anymore, targets will have to actually be chosen rather than just randomly blown up."
"you forget, adding disadvantages will be incentive for them to create those corporations. i saw one that couldn't understand that say limiting them to t1 ships wouldn't help, because they would simply roll individual corporations to keep operating pretty much as they were.  with the added bonus of flooding the database with a load more corporations people are going to adapt to the restrictions, even if it means saying okay i'll take a level in corporation management and see how many are going to waste the isk trying to play whack a mole with a legion of us.add in the fact the smart gankers would realize they can boost your costs of wardecing them if they operate as an impromptu alliance with spider wardecs to raise the price of declaring against them.  with just 5 and spending less than a battleship they can push the price for declaring on one into the 5th level of cost... and making them mutual at no further cost  [nothing says you have to shoot a war target, you have the ability to do so without a sec hit]think farther than you do now, if people are dropping into them to avoid wardecs. imagine the market when some alliances get formed just to offer mutual wardec services just to provide a bit of protection from others.  you pay the cost of the wardec, then a set fee for the service... "
":facepalm:all the things you listed already happens. there have already been alliances that let in anyone just to up the wardec costs. all these things are symptoms of the same problem. this is the problem we are speaking about. this is why the mechanics has to change. i can't give you a solution to all of this. if i could, i would work for ccp and it would already be in game. all i can tell you is that you need to stop thinking in terms of existing mechanics and try to understand that we are speaking about changing those mechanics. the underlying problem remains the same. people have a way of \"opting out\" of the 'dangerous' parts of eve. these people can still compete at the same level as people who don't \"opt out\". this means that the path of least resistance leads to the npc corp. this is why we have so many people staying in the npc corps year after year, and that is why so many new players never leave their starting corp, or move back into an npc corp after a brief foray into a pc corp. all of this is a balance issue. what needs done is a system that actually encourages conflict, not just on a \"it's fun\" basis, but also on an in-game economical basis. it needs to be lucrative to engage in combat. this means boosting piracy rather than nerfing it. it means completely reworking existing war, npc-corp and high sec agression mechanics. it means we can't just go around applying band-aids to the gushing wounds in the game. while suicide ganking may or may not  i still say not  be imbalanced as it currently stands, fixing just that and ignoring all the myriad of other problems connected to it, is trying to stop the hudson river by throwing yourself in the water. it's futile, will lead to more problems and will get you wet.  well, maybe not that last part ."
"the system does for those that want that style of play...that is the key, not everyone plays eve for the ship to ship combat...some prefer pve combat, some prefer market pvp.ccp is going to make the game work for as many play styles as possible.the problem is people don't play how you think they should, but in a way that is acceptable to ccp right now it's out of whack that a suicide gank of a cargo frigate loaded with 500m3 of t1 missiles can almost be considered profitable  even if the missiles are simply reprocessed and sold with mineral loss  just because a couple of the cargo hold expanders might drop"
"you missed the point - again - and i'm not really surprised anymore. this game we have here  eve online, just in case you thought i was talking of another game  is a fairly complex economic model. this model is based on a number of factors, such as supply and demand. any nutter can provide a supply in this game, as it is easy to manufacture. the problem is, demand mainly comes from one end - loss. thusly, we need loss of equipment in the game in order for the economic model to work. loss of equipment - due to the inadequacies of the npcs - predominantly comes from combat encounters with other players. thus, we have established we require combat in the game.now, in order for us to have a somewhat fair economic model, every player needs to be subject to potential equipment loss. this means, we can't have players that are virtually or actually immune to it. this, in turn, means that every player - regardless if he likes combat encounters or not - needs to have a chance of suffering such encounters. finally, this means we can't have a system like we have today. today's system in eve is setup in a manner that you can virtually opt out from combat if you just remain in high security and stay in an npc corp. alternatively you can create a player corp - with all its benefits - and just jump ship when you eventually run into a combat encounter by just switching corp. the only reason this system works is that we have suicide gankers who indiscriminally targets players in high sec. they provide a modicum of balance to the otherwise risk free high sec life. this balance is required as we have already established. now, there are two problems:1. suicide ganking does not balance high sec enough. there needs to be a complete rewrite of the mechanics to bring high sec life in line with other types of play styles. this can be achieved in a number of ways, like upping the risk of high sec or lowering the rewards. the \"opting out\" has to be removed as well.2. people who are used to the risk free high sec life see suicide ganking as a problem and want to nerf it. they don't understand the underlying problems, and just want to patch up this particular 'problem' with no thought given to the consequences.so, we are now in a situation where we face a nerf to suicide ganking. what kind of nerf it's going to be is as of yet not clear, but something is coming. at the same time, nothing is being done to the other problems. the reason for that being that noone is whining loud enough about them. for the game to be balanced after a nerf to suicide ganking, the other issues need to be adressed at once. we can already see all the symptoms of the true problem."
"0.01 isk say this thread is never gonna see another dev reply."
"you forget risk vs reward.right now empire makes decent isk while operating there, and it feeds the war machines in the low/null sec space  as well as the empire conflicts suicide ganking will say with the proposed changes, it just makes it a focused attack vs spraying a random person and hoping they got at least 6mil in loot/salvage to recoup your costs with a profit.. what this does is make it so the ganker actually has risk related to the reward.so what if people can opt out of combat with players, ships are lost hourly to npcs in missions and while ratting.suiciders are burning ships  and will slow slightly if they have to pick targets, but they will focus on high reward targets vs the random ganks  for themselves and others.guess what: it's not fair. it will never be fair. a character can sit in a station, and simply use buy/sell to make a fortune and you can't compete against them with guns. it's combat of sorts, it manipulates the market.right now they see suicide ganks as being enough out of whack that they need a look at. the cost to do one is nothing compared to the possible rewards.yes you have a bit of space that is reasonably safe.but that sector is also home to faction warfare, corporate warfare, piracy, suicides, and simple npc kills. so there is losses, regardless of them being in position for a wardec.it may cost more to cause them loss, especially if no insurance for concord kills... but just pick the targets that matter. blaming all the ills on the npc corporations, or people that opt out of player based ship to ship combat is a bit of a cop out to be honest. it forgets the fact: you are competing with the playbase -1. as is they are working on the problems : wardecs are being looked into.but the thing you fail to consider most of all: they know where the majority of the paying customers are, they know the skill makeups, they know what corporations they are in... and they know where their income is based.you don't burn the money tree down, you find ways to cultivate it."
"sorry, explain to me how profiting from that playstyle is less valid than mining, for example.miners don't have to pay to suck on a roid to profit, but \"gankers\" should have a cost involved in their trade?by your arguement people should have to carefully pick and choose their asteroids in case they actually make a loss ... or does your arguement only apply to people who adopt a playstyle you personally do not support?as to the choice over loads of 1 man corps vs npc corps, i would take the 1 man corps thank you very much.however, the proposals i made are not so as inane as yours, and allow for a balanced way to continue with npc corps, with advantages and disadvantages - rather than a stupid example which does not even support the position you try to represent.i am not, as you are so keen to imply, trying to grief people out of the game - but rather looking for a way of expanding and enriching the entire game whilst bringing more balance and less extreme gameplay.i envision a system where members of npc corps  not starter corps  are part of the eve story, rather than opting out of it. they gain benefits from the corps they are in, and with the empire they are part of. people who would attack them would suffer penalties to that corp, and the empire. if at war they would take penalties in line with factional warfare, or even more.imagine a npc corp where you benefit from the backstory advantages of the actual corp, and their relations with other corps effecting you.a corp which would help defend it's interests, and its members.empires providing assistance to those who are being attacked, even in concord sanctioned wars.those corps and empires penalising those who would bring violence to bear against them .. factional hits, station sentry guns, docking rights, and even the factional navy being part of a scaled response.that is a better vision than \"nerf ganking\", or \"zomg 1 man corps\".the csm should be about vision, not reaction .. and it certainly shouldn't pander to those who still think that digital watches are a pretty neat idea."
"no i don't. risk vs reward is at the very center of my entire argument. i'm not surprised you didn't pick up on it.well, congratulations. you've managed to identify one of the biggest problems of all. however, it seems you actually see it as a good thing. having a system where warring enteties are able to safely build up is not only unfair, it is extremely stupid. this is at the very top of the list of things that need to change.seems you just really can't get to grips what i am actually saying. i'm not going to bother explaining it to you again. instead i'm going to ask you to reread my posts. i'm sorry, but this is just a ludicrous argument. npc losses are such a small part of total ship losses to be completely insignificant. barring massive lag, you really have to be a complete moron to loose a ship in a mission or belt rat.then why the hell are you so adamant about making suicide ganks 'fair'? he sure can. if he's good enough of a trader to never have to leave his station, all the more power to him. truth is, though, that these players are extremely rare, and most often an alt of a player that actually does leave the station.which is completely beside the point in what we are discussing right now. take a look at that snippet from your post again. try to spot the lapse of logic.and we are asking for a rework of the entire system to make suicide ganking redundant by actually solving the real problems! no, it's not a cop out. it's not forgetting the facts. it's actually stating the facts. because you are competing with the player base, the player base has to be open to any kind of agression, econimical or physical.mhmm... and they still don't solve the underlying problem. just another treatment of symptoms.continued..."
"a miner balances risk vs reward by:1 - picking the systems  security rating, risk of suicides, competition for asteroids 2 - mining style  secure cans, hold mining, jet can 3 - time  distance from trade hubs, isk per/hr of the ore so yes there are risks and other factors that affect mining besides pew pew... so what would you do about a person that sits an alt in a station and makes millions and soon billions in isk by day trading goods? you can't shoot them even with a wardec, so they are invulnerable to you..."
"and this is the biggest load of bs anyone can possibly put forth into this debate. you are actually saying that ccp should change their game because - you believe - most of their income comes from players who don't really like the entire game but just parts of it. you are saying ccp should remove the parts you don't like because, in your demented little carebare brain, you actually think you are in the majority. truth is, you're not. most people who come to this game do so because of the way the game is set up. if they wanted a carebear game they would play wow or everquest or any of the myriad of other games that caters specifically to that play style. eve doesn't. eve caters to the dedicated gamer - who might happen to build stuff up, or destroy it - that realises the most important part in eve. eve is a game that thrives on pvp. without pvp the game is nothing. without carebears like you, we could still operate, but without us pvpers or industrialist who actually recognize that you need a competitive nature to survive, this game would be dead.think about that for a while. you aren't needed."
"my god you're dumb."
"indulge my stupidity - which one of those risks is it that means a miner may actually make a loss if he activates his lasers on the wrong asteroid, as opposed to not making a good profit?people having isk isn't actually an issue - it is about logistics and how people can use npc corps to protect activities which support pvp activities.i don't care if someone makes billions of isk a day in a station - it is meaningless if he doesn't use that isk to project power."
"risk is subjective. and include more than combat risks, best to consider it: risk + cost vs profitcombat, you can't use combat against a larger corporation/alliance or group of them operating in concert. there is no equality there.you want it to be 0.0 everywhere? with no safe areas? take away any chance for many to play with safty and you wind up with a repeat of ultima online...when it went full pvp.the underlying problem is there is more than one play style : it will never be fair, but there is balance.a miner has no chance against a dedicated attacka ganker has little chance of losing isk, where the miner/hauler/etc does... so that gets balanced a bit more to be inline with the other ways of playing.guess what: if country a is at war with country b.. country c will sell both arms and equipment  when possible, or company d will sell to the other . in eve it's corporations/alliances vs countries.it's part of the economy, because the shooters are not going to bother with industry while they enjoy their play style. while others enjoy theirs.you seem to see a diversity of play styles as a bad thing, but it keeps the game going by paying the bills.consider this: you make it no longer enjoyable for all the care bears/industrialists. and they leave... what then? who will provide the material for the war machines... short of ccp suddenly deciding to run it like the test server... but then you would have to go pve for isk in missions.but then you face the fact ccp will likely lose customers: hence them repeatedly mentioning they will not do anything that forces players out of the npc corporations  which includes applying restrictions or altering their function, which is penalizing their playstyle and a miner does not make a couple hundred million isk while risking a few million isk at a shot. right now a gank attack does. it takes them time to make the couple hundred million, a day's mining in empire is nothing compared to a day's suicide attacks."
"a miner picks which roids he goes after. one choses empire ore, one goes low/null. one can make more isk than the other by taking a greater risk.  compare prices on empire ice vs low/null ice versions for a quick one cost  isk + time  + risk are factors that affect profit.so what would you do if every ship hauling in a convoy was in 1 man corporations? spend a couple billion in wardec fees to go after them?"
"ki an, i love you. in before the lock."
"and you can't see beyond the gunsights, risk isn't just about possible ship loss.reward includes accounting for other factors.a miner corp sees a buy order, they mines in a system near the buy location fighting with other miners for roids, even going so far as to wardec some of them. they get enough to fill a good portion of the order. but it's been filled so they lose profit. plus they lost more through the wardecs...where the corp that was a couple jumps farther away mined without competition and fills the order completely in a day by simply picking a better system to mine in.wardecs don't make you able to better compete, they are a tool that is broken. so is assuming that conflict will make it magically perfect for you to compete. so what if an npc corporation can't be wardeced, it's no different than having several corporations working to fill the need for the low/null contracts that can be wardecced.you can't get them all.... it's not tactically or economically feasible.so you learn to adapt, and balance the reward vs the risks and costs.right now after review ccp is planing changes to two of the systems that are out of whack with their idea of a money making game."
"ok, so explain again:what risk does a miner in an npc corp in high sec have after the proposed changes to suicide ganks?"
"they can still be suicide ganked.they can still have their ore stolen if they are using jettison canistersif they are in a frigate still the npc rats can eat their ship alive while they go to take a leaksame as always.what risk does a miner in 0.0 with over watch have?what risk does a miner in low sec with over watch have?how long does it take miner a in high sec to make as much isk as the miners in low/null with overwatch limiting them to worry about nothing but a wardec? a wardec that can be avoided, or rendered a non issue by picking a system that is easy to defend and offers plenty of belts, with scouts in the neighboring systems to watch for hostiles.the changes don't remove any options, it just balances things a bit.and balanced != fairall use the equation of comparing x risk , y time , and z cost  in regards to possible rewardscurrently miners, missions, and the like balance out x,y and z to one part or anotheras it stands the way suicides are operating x,y, and z are all extremely low for the possible rewards.  low cost due to insurance payout, no risk in none can shoot unless you are a wartarget, low time since you can almost simply shoot any large industrial/ship and break even on dropped modules if not make a profit. only real time factor is grinding back security status, which is ratting and making isk at the same time with a bonus of being able to come back and spend a little risk/time/cost and possibly make 100s of thousands in a single gank."
"you are just trolling, i get it.you are just trolling, right?"
"if the system was broken with the npc corporations, then nobody would be able to compete with them.but people can and do compete quite well with them and all the rest. without shooting a single war target.you claim to be worried about the economy of loss, if that was a factor then even t2 ships would cost less than the insurance because demand would be less than supply.hell many t1 ships where platinum insurance is a loss, but the amount of loss is not too bad on some. all i see is complaints about having to scan a target and consider it worth ganking or not.and complaints over neutrals hauling in materials for warfare... you can't stop that. they will just put a buy order in a system they can take their transports to and let them be filled by whoever. you can't wardec all the corporations and individuals who would jump to fill those orders. and you know it.it's like mining, you wardec a corporation to claim a sector of empire  yeah right . you tie them up, but that doesn't stop another corporation from simply filling the gap and getting ahead while you worry about locking down the system.adapt to something other than pressing f1-f8"
"stop with the ad hominem attacks, please, it doesn't lead anywhere.to illustrate what ashen says. do you seriously believe that this would not happen if insurances were left out?yes that's a 20m brutix pinching a 100m hulk. there is plenty more examples from that killboard and yes, they would still come out far on top if insurances were left out.edit: apparently it can even be done in a thorax. thats a 4m ship, uninsured."
"so now anyone who does not agree with your warped view on what eve should be all about is a troll? great arguing...i suppose that if you were a manu fan, and some chelsea player inentionally fouled cristiano ronaldo so that he breaks leg, knee, ankle and whatever else can break, which puts ronaldo out for like a year and suspends the chelsea guy for 5 matches, you would cheer for the chelsea guy since he did maximum damage for minimal penalty, and spit on ronaldo because he was dumb enough to let it happen to him? and actually encourage on other players to do the same? because all the risk should lie with the 'creators' and all the rewards with the 'destroyers'?please get a grip. removing insurance would not and should not remove suicide ganking from the game. it would just make it less attractive to the masses of bored ******s, which is a good thing for the game as a whole  well, probably not in your ideal game world where every system is 0.0 and there is no lag because user peak on sunday night would be 400 and not 40k... ."
"ashen,don't waste your time with ki an. he's the one trolling you. he really doesn't care or worry about economy, \"newbies\", or anything but running all carebears out of eve."
"oh i know. i just want to see if he's willing to risk wardecing a one man corporation.i don't mind being docked up with my limited play time right now... and i can hurt his or any corporation that wardecs me far more than they can me.i can sit here and change skills, and cost them money without even touching the marketand without dropping out or disbanding my corporation."
"boy, the carebear brigade really came to your aid there, ashen. too bad they never do the same in game and, the reason i'm trolling you is that what you are saying has absolutely no bearing on the discussion at hand. either that or you are so hard pressed expressing yourself in english that you can't make yourself understood. we are talking about an underlying problem being the reason for suicide ganks. you reply by setting up strawmen and then answering to some other post, as your replies seldom has anything to do with what you quoted. i gave up on trying to explain to you that you should read mine and avon's posts again to understand what we where actually talking about. you replied with more nonsense and a few strawmen. so, now i'm just trolling you instead. keeps me happy, keeps the forum bears weepy, and makes you keep spewing nonensical rethoric."
"because your straw man fails.you claim it's the fact the npc corporations are immune to wardecs...which is utter bsbecause you can get the npc corps reworked, but guess what. you can't stop the logistics machine feeding the beasts. you can only wardec so many, then it becomes more costly to try it.rework the corporations and people will form fleets using small corporations  even 1 man ones . file a wardec, they make it mutual. then switch corps with whatever delay is necessary or simply dock and ransom your bottom line. because till you surrender or disband, that war slot is used...plus it raises the wardec fees for all future wars. and i don't expect them toaccept surrenders without a fee. so the option would be pay the fee or disband.so that tool used to defend your bottom line can easily be reversed on you. it's a sword that cuts both ways."
"just give up mate.they don't want a better game, they want an easier one.the silly thing is, isk is so easy to make now i could suicide t2 ships all day long just for the lulz, with no concern for loss.they *hope* that putting a price barrier up will stop people killing stuff for fun .. but they fail to realise that fun is the whole point of a game. it won't stop people ganking, because on the whole they enjoy it.let them have their nerf. no doubt they will be back a couple of weeks afterwards crying about how ccp didn't do enough to protect their playstyle, and how eve had no place for griefers. although those whines will hopefully be drowned out by those from mission runners and new players who have screwed up somehow and found out that their insurance was invalidated due to a misguided carebear crusade.shame really. i honestly thought that the eve community would have been able to see how this could have been tackled by expanding and enriching gameplay, rather than knee-jerk reactions which will, i fear, prove futile and add nothing.again, i am not in favour of suicide attacks, but i am pragmatic enough to realise that they are currently a required mechanic, and that the attempts to restrict them will not have the desired result.without tackling the underlying problems the situation will change little, or will become further unbalanced.really the ultimate question is should we approach things like this with a mind to restrict gameplay, or to enrich it."
"i have not used straw men in my arguments. you have.i have never claimed that. i have claimed that there is an underlying issue regarding the unbalanced high sec mechanics. npc corps being virtually immune is one aspect of this. try actually readin my posts.no, it really isn't. i'm not sure what you're getting at here. are you saying that the alliances that use alts in npc corps for logistics would use another way if npc corps are changed? if so, i would agree. the difference would be that we would be able to actually hurt those people without suicide ganking them if the npc corp system was reworked. that is one reason for it. read my posts and avon's for further reasons.and that's why i won't singlehandedly stop every alliance alt corp in the eve universe. i'm fairly awesome, but not that awesome. fortunately there are a few more people in the game than just me. wut? what's wrong with that? this is why i keep insisting that you might be a bit shy in the intelligence department. this is entirelly incorrect, and i'd urge you to actually read up on the mechanics before trying to act smart on the forums.swords are good. they are vaguelly phallic in appearance, and extremely sharp. both qualities are excellent."
"so, your arguement is that if npc corps are reworked  without actually making any effort to look at the proposed systems, which would make random attacks highly undesireable , players should then be encourage to protect their playstyle by exploiting flaws in the current war declaration system?i think that speaks volumes about you.again you try to construct your position around taking things in solitude. if only you would use your ideas to try to construct a better system, embracing tweaks and changes to all related game mechanics, rather than picking and choosing extreme examples as an excuse to maintain the status quo, or worse, push your own agenda, then maybe it would be so frustrating reading your posts.you obviously have good ideas, and understand some of the issues involved - if only you could step away from your playstyle and see how a changed system could better embrace and balance other ways of enjoying eve."
"so spell out the underlying problem chuckles or accept it's a tweak that doesn't remove anything but insurance payments and adds a bit more cost to the activity.the supposed invulnerability of npc corps isn't going to cut it. because short of turning all of eve into the failure that was ultima online when it went full pvp there will always be ways to be near invunerable to wardecs.there is no restriction on the gameplay, it just raises the equation up to the point you have to think before popping a ship. in war the reward is if your cost > then the loss. in piracy your rewards is loot & salvage > your cost. fun it doesn't matter the cost"
"but cost will not stop people having fun  you think there is much profit for me in alliance warfare? , and removing insurance payouts has knock on effects to people who are *not* suicide gankers.game mechanics, and in particular selective insurance, can not determine intent.it will not solve anything, no matter how much you hope it will."
"i see how changes can be abused. i see how things can be changes and how others will react to them to adapt.i've been pirate, merc, miner, and industrialist on this and other accounts. i've seen most of the options. and i know those that see the npc corps as a way around wardecs will use what legal tactics they can to make them a non-concern again. be it mutual wardecs to raise the costs up to teh point most wouldn't spend the isk to bother. to staying too small to be worth attacking.if it's been declared legal, it's not an exploit. no matter how anyone whinges on it.what is odd is i come back after a long time, and it's the same arguments: high security is too safe, i can't compete with the npc corporations never mind there are ways corporations are operating effectively and doing well... and have been from day 1it's considering all playstyles are valid, and recognizing how some ideas hurt the game as a whole versus least impact on the playerbase. make the game all 0.0 and then it dies. even if there were npc corporations that were of benefit, the fact they would be open to wardecs means someone would wardec them. which makes them less attractive to a portion of the playerbase that pays the bills for ccp.combat is not the sole focus of the game...learn to use tools other than the guns and wardecs."
"no, you fail to realise that most people here do not want ganking to end. it's just that it is silly cheap right now, and as you state isk is so easy to make. it hardly makes it less relevant to take a hard look at the insurance policy.you seem totally convinced that it is only the targets of ganks that argue for a change. i can assure you that this is not the case.i do not exclude a more thorough examination of all aspects by ccp, but that could take years, literary. so what it would add, or rather what i expect it would remove is the ganks of targets with pocket change in their hold.i agree. i do also consider myself pragmatic and what i see is a simple adjustment that would make the eve-universe a tiny bit more balanced, while we wait for the enrichment of its gameplay."
"it would impact the ones that are not in it for gigglesthey would actually operate like professionals and pick targets worth killing.some lessons are going to be painful, not checking your target sucks. but you don't do it twice."
"if you had ever read any of my proposals you would never have made such an inane response to me.i am totally against making all of eve 0.0; but if you had done any research you would have already known that."
"it is a game, everyone is in it for giggles.just because some people get giggles from avoiding combat it does not make their fun more valid than people who like looking at pretty explosions.you have already stated that ccp must pander to those who dislike combat for fear of losing subscriptions ... but i guess they don't need money from people who like blowing stuff up?oh, as a side note, you really, really, really, need to stop with the uo references, because you clearly have no idea of how much influence it had on the people who brought you eve.you are so far of the mark it isn't even funny."
"look at the graphs for the games out there... most populated are the pve servers. eve has one shard... empire is the pure pve server of sorts...there is still risks of pvp combat  far more than in most games, but with penalties ... but most of the pvp is market/trade based in empire.wardecs mean little really to be honest when it comes to stopping groups pulling resources down. they can set up buy orders... what ever corporation/individual that fills it gets the isk while they get their supplies. only so many can be stopped before they get what they need. main advantage is hitting their logistics train if you're good enough to find the routes they use.thing is eve is more than pvp... it has to be to be profitable. ccp knows this and works to try and balance things so they don't really favor one group or the other. they know there needs to be a safe spot for those that don't like player combat. they don't prevent it completely, they just limit the options  with a cost "
"dear god make him stop with the nonsense!no, ccp bloody well knows that if they start pandering to tossers like you they'll end up deep in a hole just like swg. ccp has always been clear in their vision. if they stray from it this time, it'll be a first. we are posting here to remind them of what they used to stand for. stop it with your \"we carebears are in the majority\" bs. that economics report was the worst thing to ever happen to the game. it made the carebears think anyone actually cared about them. no one does. you can all quit. honest."
"actually most of the complaints in swg were the pvp crowd... since the pve players had a choice in engaging in combat so balance issues were brought up by the hardcore combat junkies in the factions.and if it really bothers you so much, put on the ruby slippers and click your heels together repeating \"there is no place like home\". maybe you'll wake up in kansas again and it'll all be a deam... or you can accept the reality of the numbers and what they show."
"you're damn right it was the pvp crowd complaining. after the nge, there was no place left for pvpers. the game had become pve centered, and it wasn't good enough at it to compete on the already very tight market for pve games, so it died.it also sucked because everyone was jedis. that's because of people like you.why don't you tell me what the numbers show. i'd prefer it if you'd make a detailed listing of what exactly it is ccp has released to the player base. also provide links. i like links."
"oh please pre and post nge the whine fest was from the pvp crowd.and i got a better idea: prove your arguments. if you can. instead of resorting to attacks and comments , lets see you display facts."
"so ashen, is it your intention to push for a non-pvp zone with in eve?"
"nope, there are no pure combat safe spots.the cost of engaging in the high security ones should be high thoughit's one thing to shoot someone in the face out in the middle of the back woods[0.0], and another to do it on the steps of the courthouse[1.0].the npc corporations are not invulnerable, there are ways to work around the lack of wardecs. not easy or cheap, but there are ways.but the old saying: by undocking you consent to non-consensual pvpshould read: by undocking you consent to non-consensual pvp combat, but you are not guaranteed any pvp combat"
"yeah, despite the fact that almost anyone who has played the game says that the nge ruined the game, and that it was a cheap cop out to placate the whiners who wanted the game to be easier, you're probably right. i mean, you said so, right? that means it's true.i asked you first, chump. what's the matter? afraid the numbers you cling on to will turn out to show something else?i've pretty much proved my arguments already in this very thread, but i'll sum them up for you since you're too stupid to actually read posts.argument: voiding insurance for suicide ganks won't solve the issue of suicide ganks, and is actually just a way for vindictive carebears to \"get back at\" those that wronged them.proof: posts from angry bears in this very thread pretty much proves my point, but furthermore as you yourself have admitted, suicide ganks will not disappear.argument: voiding insurance for suicide ganks does not make sense from an rp perspective.proof: insurance doesn't make sense from an rp perspective, period. if we where to apply rl logic to it, noone would get insurance.argument: voiding insurance for suicide ganks does not make sense from a mechanics perspective.proof: arguing that suiciding needs a cost is pretty much futile, as other professions in eve apparently doesn't require a cost. also, there has never been proven to exist a \"suicide ganking problem\". noone has been able to state how many suicide ganks would be too few, or just enough. as has earlier been shown, suicide ganking is actually a required game mechanic, and any nerf to it now, with existing mechanics still in place, would hurt the balance of the game rather than improve it. argument: the real problem in eve is actually that the market is set up to require loss - losses from pvp encounters by far outweighs losses from pve - and people are abusing npc corps, designed to help new players, to keep themselves virtually immune in high sec, free to make profits at a steady pace.proof: well, the proof is right there in the argument itself. eve is designed this way. eve requires pvp to function. it is not a pve game. it has pve in it, but that's to fuel pvp. this is not an opinion. it's just restating what has been said by the devs over the years eve has existed. argument: if the underlying issues where solved, suicide ganking would be solved as well.proof: if all players where equally vulnerable, there wouldn't be a need to suicide gank someone. it could and would probably still happen, but at a much much smaller scale due to the fact that if you've got it in for someone, you could actually put the hurt on that person through much simpler means. a reworking of the mechanics would also have the side effect to actually inform players that they need to protect themselves. this would serve as a wake up call for many, and they would start flying smarter.right, i'm done. now let's see your evidence. i wanna talk numbers."
"actually i've never seen you provide numbers. so rather than waste much time on a dedicated whinge troll that complains about every change to a game i've decided to let you post the facts in links with numbers before i consider you worth my time. lets see you put up something other than opinions and assumptions on your part.pre-nge the complaints were about combat balance, with buffs and composite armor amongst other things  and the fotm builds and such... how everyone focused on mind attacks because they couldn't be healed off like the rest argument 1 : it raises the cost of business. a mission ship, exhumer or other non-suicide ship loss is quite a bit of isk loss. a suicide ship can actually be worth less than the payment of the insurance even taking in modules  which can be recovered at times from their own wrecks reducing the cost across the board argument 2 : there is high risk insurance in real life, ship insurance would fall in that category. argument 3 : there are costs for all other professions, in consumables, time, etc... argument 4 : people are using large empire alliances to make themselves too big to be wardeced and rake in profits, or they are too small to be worth the cost to wardec... or they are using the tools available to make it not worth being wardeced. the npc corps are not the ultimate evil monstrosity that you seem to think they are.argument 5 : a suicide gank is often far more effective than declaring against a corp. scan a target, do some number crunching real fast... pop the ship if it's worth it. where wardecs mean they finish the trade run, because there is a time period before you can engage that juicy target... besides the cost of the ganks can often be less than the cost of a wardec if you are already at war with several corporations. based on the cost of the wardec, and the possible loot to be recovered."
"look, it is actually you that isn't worth my time. i should have known from your first inane response. you have continuously failed to recognize my arguments, and you have consistently failed to respond to them in an intelligent fashion. you have proven your lack of knowledge of game mechanics and you obviously have no sense of logic, as you even in the post quoted above, make one logical mistake after another. the only conclusions i can come to are that you are either too stupid to actually understand the issues being discussed, or you are a huge troll and just here to muddle up an already complicated debate. either way you are not worth replying to, and either way you should stfu.i would welcome a debate on this issue, but not with you as you have proven yourself too stupid to partake. anyone else wanna take me up on this offer? ashen, keep spamming please. each post just makes you look worse."
"must be tough when you can't post real facts and only opinions and so many people call you a troll for it. ever thread i've read with you in it's the same whinge and insults again and again.post something with links and not just your opinion and maybe people will consider you something other than a whinge troll with anger issues when the world ignores you as such."
"why don't you war dec me over it? afraid i would make it mutual so you would never be rid of the dec?"
"hint: that's not actually how it works. i only posted it to make you realise how stupid you are."
"considering how long it's been since i delt with them, i don't care. though search showed it was still working that way,so kindly go ask mommy for cookies and milk while you play"
"actually it never worked like that. it's a common misconceptions among carebears like you. the point is, try to know your **** before talking, because now your talking **** about things you don't know."
"like you?when the site search turns up one type of information it's what people go by.so lets see you post data that supports your ego and views? i want to see hard facts from you, something search shows as lacking in most if not all of your posts."
"like me what? i post **** i don't know about? no, it's the other way around. i know my ****, so i post.yeah, stupid people. smart people make sure the info is correct before looking like an ass on the forums.you know, i've posted enough responses to feed your idiocy for one night. if you want, i can start a new thread entitled \"how eve works\" just for you. the data that supports my view is presented in this thread. the dev comments can be found by looking around the forums. i'm sure some friendly soul has a link for you because i can't be bothered to do your work for you. when you post something that is actually backed up by either solid facts or sound reasoning i'll respond to you politely. until then, i'll just keep trolling you."
"you assume one thing: that i care about the forums. they are fun to visit, and listen to people whine about any change. all i see looking at your posts is a forum warrior that spends too much time stroking his own ego thinking these forums matter much... when you're barking after the truck has turned the corner."
"no, i'd rather assume that you realised your own inadequacies when it comes to rational thought, and stayed away from the forums as much as possible. by all mean, continue having fun making yourself look stupid. i know i'm having a ball. well, you could argue that this particular section of the forum actually matters, as this is the community outlet on design issues. in here people try to apply reason to make their voice heard. i understand that might be a bit too complicated for you, the whole 'reason' bit."
"how sad.if you see the forums as a form of entertainment; rather than a way that the people who really matter in eve, the players, can discuss openly how they would like to see the game develop; why post?why come here and disrupt open discourse which, as you have just said, you have no real interest in?maybe you could at least have the courtesy of letting people who are interested in having a discussion do so in peace?after all, you have made it abundantly clear that you have no constructive input to make.unless, of course, it is impossible for you to put the game before your own forum ego stroking?"
"actually i don't let the forums get to me the way a troll wants.i speak my piece, others speak theirs.even when i disagree, i don't resort to a stfu or the other troll style postings till they have.all i see in some is nothing but troll, others just a disagreement."
"how many times have you been suicide ganked?serious question here."
"first hauler alt: 3 times  2 just after undocking at a trade hub, 1 by them clicking the wrong target in overview [versus the mackinaw i was piloting] this char: 1 time, lag spike on the way to jita and they tried to pop me thinking i was in a plain interon. damage was shields only, 1.0 is not the best spot to try that. 2 if you count them trying to pop my mackinaw.all of course while i was in a player corporation... so they don't just target the npc corporations."
"how much isk has this cost you?also, how many years have you been playing?also serious questions."
"hmm.3 bestowers all with 4 ce i, 3mse i, 1 sse i  cheap fit for the alt only one had cargo, and that iirc was a couple shuttles and some t1 missilesso after insurance and all, about enough that i mined an hour and made up the losses. so about 2mil at most after insurance.where in all 3 cases the aggressor managed to at least break even.if i got cargo that's worth it, it's in the occ or my drake based on size.as for playing, off an on for over 2 to 2.5 years now. rerolled a few times."
"if you're going to do it that way, just have \"jump bridge\" = subcapital, and use a cyno generator module for capital movement. they can jump already, just need to give them a target. and of course, cynogens and cynojams would be mutually exclusive."
"i like this idea.i think that doing exploration sites should also fit into sovereignty benefits. i find the plexes in faction warfare very enjoyable, and would like to see this in 0.0.the big thing is to reduce pos sieges. sieging a pos is like watching paint dry."
"i would also like to potentially flesh this out with some improvements to pos logistics to compensate for the reduced importance of pos in the overall territory warfare picture. please toss some ideas my way about what might tie into this system that would make fueling etc. less of a grind."
"deploying a pos in a system should require the deploying organization to have captured 100% of the stargates in that system.this will reduce the number of pos that people will feel the need to deploy to hold sov.less pos deployed means less of a logistic burden.basically, every pos should have a productive purpose: mining, research, or production. not to be a big sov-holding gunned-out deathstar that does nothing but stake a claim and eat fuel."
"quite frankly, anything that can help mine veld  and/or other lowends  faster in highsec too would really be appreciated think t3 miners and t3 mining crystals i mean, the first t2 item was the miner ii, it wouldn't be that far-fetched to introduce t3 tentatively with just the mining lasers first."
"because i'm too lazy to read through the whole thread to see if it's been suggested already, let me state my support for the following fix:t2 mods/ships, when reprocessed, give back 25%-50%  depending on refinery efficiency skill, standings, the weather, etc  of their construction components."
"they already give back up to 100% of their base components sure, when manufacturing off an invented blueprint  negative me , there's a lot of waste, but that's something else entirely.if you would have manufactured off a highly researched bpo, the build and recycle material list would be almost identical  the base t1 item is not obtained, but auto-recycled into minerals  - only the r.a.m. is actually lost."
"yes i demand for the curse to return to multiple-bs-pwning mode.seriously? the curse is evil as hell still. the pilgrim should probably be reworked, although, if they gave it about 2k cargo, i think it'd be awesome. the amarr would have a force recon indy, and as silly as that sounds to some, i think it'd actually be pretty badass."
"nicely written and thought out post-to a certain extent. while in general agreement that the pilgrim can use \"something\" i believe your suggestions to improve the ship are heading in the wrong direction and detract from the overall unique scary-in-your-face nature of the ship.flying-as you say-\"outside the box\" is not a bad thing at all.\"nos/neut range bonus\"-why is this needed? so the pilgrim too can become another variation on speed fits? the curse does this just fine! prior to the nos balance nobody complained the pilgrim was too slow or suffered in any real fashion by being a short range attacker. since the nos balance the pilgrim simply needs more pilot skill and creativity in order to fly with effectiveness. and lets admit it...pre-nos balance/drone bandwidth changes the pilgrim was overpowered.current examples:1-i know for a fact the verone  veto  engaged multiple cruisers solo...killing a couple and actually ransoming the remainder. this is post-balancing btw. 2-i put a lot of thought into the pilgrim when i cross-trained amarr specifically for the pilgrim/curse  i am a full-spec minmatar recon pilot btw . after a lot of thought and testing i came up with what i believe is a pretty solid fit resulting in  just last week :victim: xxxxxxxcorp: xxxxxxxalliance: xxxxxxxfaction: nonedestroyed: vagabondsystem: frerstornsecurity: 0.3damage taken: 13369involved parties:name: ruleofthebone  laid the final blow security: -9.7corp: xxxxxxxxalliance: xxxxxxxfaction: noneship: pilgrimweapon: hammerhead iidamage done: 10831name: angel hunter / archangelsdamage done: 2538vagabond was a generic vanilla fit caught stalking noob dessies in belts. pilot was taken completely by surprise  as it should be  upon decloaking and instantly found himself with zero cap, webbed, and tracking disrupted  turret destab iv on my part . the only weapon of his remaining useful were his 5 warrior ii's that eventually burned off my shields while barely scratching my armor tank  details shortly  before he dropped after roughly 4 minutes. i expended exactly one cap booster 800...and that was mostly to make room for loot .please refrain from pointing at the above and yelling about epeen boasting. while a very satisfactory kill from a personal standpoint it just illustrates how nasty the pilgrim can be with a bit of thought, patience, and frankly...pilot skill. it also shows why vaga pilots should carry ewar drones solo .my pilgrim fit:[pilgrim, final]1600mm reinforced rolled tungsten plates idark blood adaptive nano platingdark blood adaptive nano platingmedium armor repairer iiinternal force field array i10mn afterburner iidomination warp scramblerfleeting propulsion inhibitor ibalmer series targeting inhibitor i, tracking speed disruptionmedium capacitor booster ii, cap booster 800covert ops cloaking device iirecon probe launcher i, snoop scanner probe imedium unstable power fluctuator ismall energy neutralizer iianti-thermic pump ianti-kinetic pump ivalkyrie ii x5hammerhead ii x5hornet ec-300 x5warrior ii x5requires recon v and excellent support skills. despite faction fittings the ship cost is roughly what my typical rapier setup runs.-yes...it's slow. but 1-v-1 with cloak advantage this is generally irrelevant. and properly fit it has a beastly tank  both buffer and resist-wise -yes...success depends on correct target selection. yet the same applies to my rapier/huginn and those ships solo rely on proper target selection too  trust me...i have beaten my head against enough drakes and other passive tank missile spammers to know better  . cont "
"the solution?. as you mention in one of your options beefing up the armor tank is a possibility that i could support. as an alternative  and my preference  beefing up the capacitor warfare aspect is more inline with this unique close-range ship. at the present time the only viable way i can see to fly this ship is with an injector. and forget using an mwd...that utterly gimps the pilgrim unless you happen to be one of those clever folks fitting lasers  although i have not seen many do that with any degree of success or usefulness .something along the lines of the sacriledge cap-use bonus would suit the pilgrim perfectly enabling options like dropping the injector, maybe fitting/using an mwd, stronger dual rep options, and so forth. plus more room for loot .but turning the pilgrim into yet another \"must-go-faster\" winboat would-in my opinion-ruin the nature of the ship. i enjoy flying speed-fits and love my polycarb'd perma-running mwd/neut/2xtd curse...but i also enjoy a patient relaxed stalk ending in \"the death of a thousand cuts\" up-close-and-personal fight that even the victim can appreciate .so..in closing i will agree the pilgrim can use a boost...but the nos/neut range extension is not the answer.**edit**i am honestly not sure why any of us bother posting anything in these threads given the apparent lack of interest displayed by the csm  outside thier own generally crap agenda's  and ccp's lack of direct feedback.it would be nice to be proved wrong on both accounts....but i am not holding my breath."
"agree."
"signed"
"absolutely agree, not sure on the ops ideas but this ship needs love."
"the pilgrim needs a boost. this is due to many factors such as the fact that neuts are the only recon ewar that is size based. also the fact that basically pvp fits require 4 basic modules. a warp disruptor, webifier, mwd, and a cap booster. the cap booster is basicaly the direct counter to amarr recon ew. you do not see everyone else running around with eccm fitted on all ships, do you?i propose this boost be done in this fashion, as to keep all of the recon families in line.switch the drone hp and damage bonus with the neut range bonus that the curse recieves. this will in effect take away the \"comabt\" dps from the pilgrim which balances with all of the other force recon ships. also the curse will actually be the \"combat\" recon now, as the pilgrim will no longer be able to dish out the same kind of damage."
"neuts are not ewar. it is an offensive  and sometimes defensive  module.td's are ewar.p.s. i forgot to indicate support for *something* useful to happen to the pilgrim. but making it a cloaked curse is meh.p.p.s. hey lavista vista....whats going on in dis thread eh?"
"i am supporting this topic but i do not like any of the solutions brought forth by the op.first of all, the pilgrim is lacking in cpu, lacking badly in cpu, i mean, extremely badly in cpu. i know cue the idiot who says \"recon v ftw\" but yeah, i'm sure all the falcons and rapiers are terribly fit and they completely fail without recon v. ship needs more cpu, maybe more grid  been awhile since i've flown it  and probably a range bonus. i mean does it makes sense that the sentinel can neut farter than the pilgrim? i like the idea of the pilgrim being a short range heavy tanked force recon, but the fact is that it can't really do that very well. ever since the hp boost a long time ago, tanking your hac/recon has been pretty much fail."
"considering that pandemic legion, sot, bob,iron all have a loss or kill with a cerberus  multiple usually  in the past week in a sniping setup you clearly have no idea what you are talking about."
"i am very passionate about my caldari, and the ignorance towards the current caldari in pvp situation hurts me mightily :>"
"if amar is so good and caldari so bad, why amar is least popualted race and caldari most?^^"
"this, tbh. i have two nighthawks that just sit in dock continuously; i never bothered replacing my last cerb; my widow has been used exactly once since i bought it  though that's more a black ops issue ; and my ravens, though they have nice dps post-torp boost, can't tackle due to the need to fit a target painter and thus just sit in station, forsaken for more effective battleships of other races. give me a reason to fly caldari like i originally wanted to, dammit.riiiight...because the sacrilege's tanking attribute is shields. oh...wait - that's right! it's actually armor! the shield-tanking nano-lameness was  gasp  not its intended role. who would of thought, what with the armor resist bonus and all?so...care to run the stats again on armor with the resist bonus factored in?p.s. i own a fully-kitted sacrilege."
"because training for ravens and running missions is the easiest way for new players to make moneyalso amarr look like crusty old men --- caldari look a lot cooler tough dudes, also they have cute asian chicks"
"no wrayeth this guy is sooo right, i mean a sacrilege with 32k effective hp and a medium armor rep, that is faster than a cerberus is paper thin compared to a cerberus that is at least 500-600m/s slower with 16k effective hp and no tank what so ever.its. just. sooo. obvious!!!!!!"
"jim, much as i find your phrasing and sarcasm amusing and your arguments largely accurate, it may be a better idea, when replying to your own thread, for you to cut back on the sarcasm and present calm, reasoned arguments. in my forum-whoring experience, i've found posting is like being a dog - the more you bark the more people ignore you and tune you out. as such it's one of the reasons why i've tried not to reply too much to my thread about nanos unless i felt a response was absolutely necessary. after my last series of posts i've said my piece and will only reply if there's something i feel i absolutely must respond to...or if i have a constructive addition to offer.tl;dryou've got good points. don't shoot yourself in the foot. edit: this doesn't stop me from being sarcastic and cynical in other people's threads - just my own."
"i haven't been able to post on the forums for 2 years. it's like the floodgates opened. i'm sure i will settle down eventually. :>mmmm nanos.."
"thats all there is to say really. we are talking about jims idea that a nano lse cerberus would get owned by a short range nano lse sacrilege.admittedly the \"nano\" sacrilege setup he posted as an issue is fail anyway  any bc will own you, even a drake , and i wouldnt want to get caught using it, ever.if you want to talk about actually armor tanking sacrileges, we can do that elsewhere this whole thread is not only lacking focus, its totally devoid of it. lots of different stuff gets thrown around, including whining.either we try to focus on the supposed issue brought up in the op, or we can consider this thing pretty much stillborn.p.s.: i own fully fitted sacrileges, and get most solo kills from them, but i consider training caldari cruiser v just for the cerberus cause there are simply things the sac cant do. e.g. the cerberus is the most survivable and consistent provider of mid-long range dps in nano gangs.imho the two are simply not comparable, and if you want to emulate a sacrilege using a cerberus, you will get the same result as trying to emulate a cerberus using a sacrilege, that it fails."
"if you want to whine about the sacrilege being sturdier, and owning a cerberus close up, you should actually consider the following:2x overdrive ii, 2 bcu ii, 1 1600mm plate10mn mwd, warp disrupter ii, stasis webifier ii, 1 sb ii or whatever5x ham ii, 1x whatever2x polycarbsthis is actually a tad faster than what jim posted, if slightly more sluggish  yeah, i hear you shouting \"plate on a nano, madman\" , has 28k ehp, these are for real  62.5/51.3/71.9/85 , and it can hit other fast ships due to the web.fit target specific missiles and rejoice  e.g. em against cerbs ."
"your sacrilege only goes 2100m/s, which is too slow for a nano-setup, it also has one other little pesky problem, it doesn't fit without a +3 or +5% grid hardwiring implant.if you would like, i could edit the original post to put more focus into what i am trying to say here. in fact i think i will.basically the fact of the matter is that the cerberus is incredibly harder to fit and less effective than the sacrilege in pvp.i am quite aware that the sacrilege is meant for short range and the cerberus is meant for long range, however, i think the cerberus could use a lot of help in the mid-range area.. and as i've said, missiles are bad sniper weapons.. so perhaps ccp should reevaluate this.i feel the cerberus should be able to fit heavy assault launchers a lot more easily, there might be a problem with ham fittings in general for caldari, in fact i am damn sure there is.i would also like to see the cerberus lose the missile flight time bonus, i find this bonus useless. either make it a double velocity bonus or put something else there that would be useful.why not give the cerberus a bonus to all heavy missile damage? why just kinetic? sacrilege gets a bonus to all heavy assault missile damage, would that not be a fair compromise?"
"@jim, just noticed you included gang boni with all skills at v for the sacrilege and no gang boni at all for the cerberus, at least for the speeds.could be an oversight, but please correct your original post, thanks."
"we don't know if it would be a fair compromise or not, because you haven't run the numbers. stop waffling and actually make some concrete proposals and predictions of their effects."
"if you want my honest opinion, imho the thing that will fix the general \"problem\" is a fix for heavy precision missiles.that would allow the cerberus to actually hit other nano-ships and smaller stuff, while the sacrilege needs to web them to score usable hits, and thus have another very nice role, compared to now.right now precision heavies are useless and that does of course affect the cerberus somewhat.edit: the precision heavy thing gets escalated to cpp, decision is from the csm meeting on the 6th of july, so before i get any more info on that from ccp, im unsure if should support any cerberus related issues."
"no i didn't."
"check again ;psacrilege with 1 od ii, one nanofibre ii, 2 polys, 10mn mwd ii:3025 m/s, what you said: 3300, which you get with a skirmish warfare 5 gang bonus 2 od make you faster on paper, but the sac is much more sluggish than the cerb, so in the tight orbit dictated by your range you wont be faster cerberus with 2 overdrives, 2 polys, 10mn wmd ii:2749 m/s, as you said, with gangboni would be 3024 m/ssmall oversight, as the sac is still faster, just not that much, and i thought lets try to get the numbers right"
"3025m/s 1 od ii, 1 nano ii, 2 polys, 10mn mwd ii, no implants"
"honest mistake, its corrected now."
"before i leave the thread alone a bit again  was admittedly bored the last hour, had a horribly boring meeting , the \"issues\" i think one can see with the cerberus are: this does not mean i personally see all of them as issues, just that some people may issue 1: the cerberus is an excellent heavy missile platform, but precisions heavies are useless. if they weren't this would strengthen the cerberus. this may change soonishissue 2: the cerberus does not really profit from hams as fitting these often costs you a low slot, essentially negating a lot of the dps advantage as you could use a bcu in there instead.i don't really see this an as issue, the question is: should the cerb be a viable ham platform? you get very high ranges with hams compared to other ships, so a bit of a drawback is fair imho.issue 3: the cerberus is a tad slow for use as a close to mid range nano ship. this causes to you to be more vulnerable to guns and missiles.the question here is, should the cerberus be a viable close-mid range hac? increasing the speed but lowering its agility would be ok for me. that way in close orbits the speed stays roughly the same, while in mid range you profit. this would make the cerberus a perfect mid-long range ship, while the sacrilege excels at short ranges.edit:my personal comment to issue 2 and issue 3.i dont see a big problem there, more of \"maybe fine-tuning\". if we talk about mid-range, lets compare it to one of the most famous mid-range direct-damage* nano hacs, the zealot: *not comparing it to the ishtar, as you can just shoot its drones, making it very different zealot: e.g. 456 dps, 3734 m/s, ~40+5km range, 9.8k ehpham cerberus emulating it: e.g. 368 dps, 3229 m/s, 45.6km range, 10.1k ehp *so expect for the speed it does compare nicely. dps actually can be higher for the cerberus as the zealot cant hit even a sitting bc fully if the zealot is at full speed and 40km, doing around 400dps. for cruiser sized sitting targets the zealot has to slow down considerably to hit anything at all.the zealot can hit fast targets having mwds on generally better, though, but precision heavy fixes could fix that for the cerb.generally the cerb has the really nice advantage that you always apply full dps to non-nano targets, no matter how fast you go  if you have gang boni and snakes f.e. with the zealot anything that makes you faster will often reduce your effective dps. e.g. my zealot actually goes faster than 5km/s, but if the target has no mwd switched on effective dps at that speed sucks.in conclusion the cerb being 200m/s or so faster for higher survivability wouldn't hurt, i guess, if it pays in agility.still the basic concept of the tight powergrid looks sound. having a midrange nano hac rivaling the zealot and having some kind of tank would be overpowered, and that ship being the king of long range, plus being able to rival the sacrilege close up would be definitely too much for one ship."
"nice list. here's some more items to consider:1. the sacrilege is intended as the short-range missile spammer, the cerberus as a long-range missile spammer. but what of the middle range? at what range should the cerberus become superior? are jav hams too good? do they tip the mid-range balance too far towards the sacrilege?2. is the limited cpu and pg on the cerberus justified? would a cerb with buffed pg and cpu step on the sacrilege's role?since it's jim's thread, i look forward to his analyses of these issues."
"gypsio, edited in some comment to the issue 2 and 3 and the powergrid thing before seeing your post, sorry for that.imho a higher pg would mainly make the zealot useless in comparison, see above."
"ah yes, the zealot also needs to be considered as well in the comparison. it's a tricky comparison, because of the differences between missiles and lasers, the tackling capabilities and engagement ranges. i don't have the experience for that, so i won't even try.i think that a big problem in this thread is uncertainty about how the cerberus should be used. personally, i don't see it as a nanoship - it's too slow, has difficulty damaging fast targets  except when using precision lights , doesn't have the cap and then has to gimp its damage with speed mods. i see range being its tank, like the falcon. so i have missile velocity rigs on mine, and sometimes a full rack of damage mods, giving up to 240 km range and excellent dps, once the missiles arrive after up to 20 seconds flight! so the double range bonus must stay - although tweaking it to a double velocity bonus would be very nice indeed."
"i agree, the strongest point of the cerberus is currently applying a reliable, constant stream of dps, while being untouchable for all hostiles.all i say is that a tiny speed increase in case you want to nano it wouldn't hurt much, though im arguing for a cerberus buff here, so i must have gone crazy.i guess part of the problem is the eagle, leaving the cerb as the only nano option for caldari hac pilots, so people try to use it for all possible roles."
"not all hac have to be nanoed"
"the cerb is currently an insanely useful ship, and performs a role which hardly any other ship can.if you want the cerb to become a sac, just use a sac.i can fly both, but i would never expect them to be used for the same job.the issue here is with the op thinking that balance means \"same\"."
"completely agree. i fly them both as well and they fill an entirely different role in pvp combat. cerberus is not a sacrilege and never should be. if there is a problem with cerbs it would just be heavy precision missiles and that is already being addressed with another issue csm has already supported."
"i agree with jim, it is a discrace tbh. sac totally outperforms the cerb, so much so that a nano sac could jump through a gate, mwd out to the cerb 200k off and kill the cerb quite comfortably. if the sac fits heavies then the cerb still dies. if the cerb fits hams then the cerb dies. if the sac fits tank and the cerb fits hams then the cerb dies. if the cerb brings a baseball bat, a can of mace, the key to the sac pilots home and ransoms his children then he still dies.just not competative. it truely makes me laugh how much trolling racial protectionism goes on in this game. i mean here we have an amarr ship which outperforms the cerberus in just about every category that matters, tank, gank tackle, speed and yet we still have a total bunch of completely biased idiots believing that the cerberus should only pvp at 150+k with missiles. so compared to the other hac missile boat the cerb has less tank, less dps, less speed, and couldnt tackle a happy meal.right on actually, remember when the amarr whine crowd were moaning about the thorax being better with lasors than some amarr cruiser hulls.funny that.edit: if you argue that the cerb performs a role that other ships cannot you must say what role that is. you cannot just say 'it does so there'. the only other role the cerb performs better is long range heavy missile sniping. so lets think about that. so a cerberus with no point and no web relies on numerous other ship types to do the tackling for them and waits 10 seconds for his missiles to hit. while this is happening 10 other  or if just about every big other 0.0 alliance then 50  support ships decend on the target and wtf pwn him regardless of the cerb.in small engagements the cerb is supposed to smack into support and the opposition isnt supposed to be able to do alot about it  cerb does have good agility so like all caldari ships at least then can run away  . problem is though that in small gang, other ships may well be more useful. like maybe the deimos, or perhaps a huggin, rapier, zealot, harbinger, drake, nano drake  its cheaper and tackles lol , ishtar.it just isnt right tbh. caldari need effective short range weapons. thats the norm among all races so why not caldari."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"dude even if the cerb could kill the sac in that time  which i doubt it could if u nano the **** out of it  it wouldnt mean much since it would still be lame if the sac could travel 150k or 100k and kill the cerb and tbh i think it could.perhaps someone with more time that me could work out exactly how much range the cerb gets for its lack of speed, tackle, damage and tank.actually basically u are arguing that if the cerb legs it  nano fitted  he either wins - kills the sac by tackling with the power of the mind since why on earth would the sac stick around with a couple of people shooting him and if something else is shooting him like perhaps a vagabond or zealot or something that the sac cant easily kill then why not actually have two of that type of ship and leave the cerb at home???!?!?!?!?!!??!?!?!honestly."
"again, you're trying to use the cerberus like a sacrilege, then complaining that the sacrilege is better at being a sacrilege.cerb can hurl missiles over 240 km, btw."
"also, could people stop calling the sac an amarrian ship - technically it is a khanid ship, it is *meant* to be good with missiles."
"i love how this thread is riddled with ppl saying either 'dont try to do this' 'why do you need something close range?' or 'stop trying to fly solo' to skirt the actual questions.doesn't this belong in ships and mods?"
"it takes damned near 15 seconds for a heavy missile to hit at 140k. are you actually trying to argue that a pvp ship that can tackle better, tank more, has superior dps and can permananly run its mwd  without and pesky interfering modules or neut/nos  is balanced against a cerb because the cerb can hit at 140k while fitting 2 sensor boosters taking 15 seonds to hit the target?.if the guy in the sac is moving toward the cerb he is moving quick and is therefore subject to the customary damage reduction due to explosion velocity. so anything over 750km/s or 1000 with precisions  lol  is subject to damage reduction. unfortunately i dont know the formula but from experience u just do a **** load less damage.like i said, if you are in a big gang then a few cerbs matter less than more heavy tacklers and in a small gang then bring something else. especially if you take the advice on these boards since we should all be shoving 2 sb's on with a nano fit  i would recommend a cloak as well  and then u can sit 140k off and ping missiles at ships and hope they chase u until they are in scram range. such a joy.dont get me wrong, im not anti nano and in fact i like speedy stuff and the warfare it promotes and imo the issue comes down to missile explosion velocity issue and powergrid issue with hams. at least if these were change u would have a competative short range option."
"but why do you need one?caldari, by design, specialise in long range combat in order to counter the short-range style favoured by the gallente, their natural enemies.or would you rather that everything was just the same, and the backstory just decided your avatar's hairstyle?"
"i don't really get it.amarr ships can fit pulse or beams.gallente can fit railguns or blasters.minmatar can fit artillery or autocannons.now on the caldari frigate level, you can go rockets or standard launchers no problem.caldari battleships  well, raven  does cruise or torpedoes no problem really. hell even the rokh in theory, can fit blasters and hold its own.now when you get to cruiser/battlecruiser and heavy assault launchers, our ships can't effectively fit the short range weapon, and the only ship that can fit them and be effective is an amarr  sorry, khanid  ship.this makes no sense to me, you guys must all love sacrileges a lot or something. i'm not even asking for it to be nerfed, i just think the cerberus needs help when it comes to fitting and perhaps some changes to its kinetic only and flight time bonus  about as useless as the precision bonus on the nighthawk imo .not really asking for a lot, the sac will still be faster, have superior capacitor, have armor resists, a drone bay, more hp, ect ect..telling me to simply use the cerberus as a sniper, where its defensive/fitting weaknesses would stand out less, and is a role that its not overly effective at imo doesn't really fix the problem here.and before i head off here, if hac are supposed to be specialized and caldari already have the eagle, which is a sniper hands down. why is the cerberus suddenly a sniper too? do we really need 2 sniper ships? it'd be nice to have a good at the very least midrange hac, which the cerberus really should be."
"why not, every other race has short range options across multiple ship types. why not try to argue that the range makes up for it?there isnt any reason why variety and fiction should be sacrificed in favor of balance. i actually like the cerb but it isnt up to scratch. you didnt mention the torp raven, blaster rokh, blarpy or ham drake as being counter to the backstory.if you get to stuff hams on a cerb  and the nighthawk  with an effective tank and mwd  lets set the tackle issue aside  with the precision to hit nanos in a more balanced way then u get a bit of balance. it should be able to compete with the sac. long range hams should kill short range hams if the engagement starts at the appropriate range. btw when the sac fits heavy launchers it performs better at the whole range is your tank equation while doing the same dps with anything other than kinetic missiles. in fact it gets to tank range, speed, hitpoints and repping if it wants to. a speed fitted cerb cant deal dps, tank or tackle enough to take out any other hac really."
"jim, jim, jim... you don't know how to fit a drake, let alone a cerberus."
"actually fitting blasters to any caldari ship is counter to the backstory.blasters are a gallente weapon, caldari use railguns for range.i can remember discussions way back in beta, and early release, how clumping both weapon types in to the hybrid tree would cause balance issues  because ship bonuses are to hybrid, not the correct racial subtype  - it is one of the biggest flaws in game mechanics, and had constantly popped it's ugly little head up in balance issues.as to torps, they *used* to be a mid range weapon, and as such made sense  mid range being about as close as cladari got to \"in your face\" combat . changes were made for balance reasons, but they still outrange blasters by a fair margin."
"why is it people think it's perfectly fine that heavy assault ships can be setup for speed that makes them superior fighting machines than their intended design?the problem with the cerb isn't so much that it sucks to fit it, since all caldari cruisers and bcs suck to fit hams on, but that nano setups are horribly broken. bring those in line, and the cerb's ability to fight at mid and long range well will make up for it being crap up close."
"i believe there are methods by which missions can be improved... and without coding in 'server-killer' advanced ai behavior. we can modify the existing 'rat-stats' to more closely mimic pvp combat.-----------------------------------1.  get rid of the useless ships; these are hogging performance and pose no challenge to the player. a serpentis navitas-class vessel does not belong in a level 4 mission... restrict such craft to lower-level missions, and place challenging craft in their place.2.  modify npc ship stats to mimic popular player loadouts, tactics, and ranges. example: a serpentis interceptor should scram the player, move at mwd speeds, and orbit outside of web range. all these attributes already exist and only need balancing  in the example above, increase speed dramatically and alter the orbit distance value .3.  randomize the loadouts. a serpentis thorax-class cruiser might have 2-3 different possible loadouts. npc battlecruisers 4-5, etc. players shouldn't know what damage an ai ship can inflict before they engage.  note that damage types remain unchanged... serpentis will always do thermal/kinetic... but the actual value will be dependent upon the selected loadout, which will be unknown to the player.  4.  restrict loot drops to racial module types. serpentis should not be dropping large shield booster i's. restrict them to gallente gear. this will eventually influence the local and regional markets  perhaps in unpredictable ways .5. every player-obtainable ship type  within reason  should be mirrored in the npc pirate corporations. what? the angels have not yet caught on to the abilities of the hurricane battlecruiser?6.  drone-users will hate me for this one.  every npc in a room should automatically aggro when a player enters... and switch aggro at random intervals. if ccp is worried about overwhelming the player, space the groups out so that the player is not blobbed to death. spawn triggers should not be known  read: randomized  but should alert the player that another group is heading his way, offering him time to bail.  keep spawns from appearing right on top of the player and he will generally be able to handle things while the enemy closes.  7. build new missions which require multiple players working together to complete... but clearly state the approximate numbers and ship types which will be needed in the mission description. example: \"remember [character_name], you're taking down a defended serpentis pos. you will need to scrounge up at least 4 battleships to handle this task. and expect enemy ships to try to snipe you... they're not going to make this easy.\" solo-players can pass on the mission. group players can grab their mates.these are just a few ideas which could improve missions without significantly hampering the servers.  i've more... but can't seem to locate the napkin i wrote them down on... perhaps later.  missions can be made more challenging by altering what we already have."
"not a good idea to limit the suggestion to mission only, even if that is the focus of this thread. if, for some reason, it was presented and applied to mission only it would be a disaster."
"yep"
"definitely.i would love to see fewer stronger npc's. killing 30 cruisers in a lvl 4 missions is very boring.currently missions are pure grind. they are easy and predictable.increasing the intelligence of the npc's would go a very long way to helping."
"3/10, cihys?"
"how is it ccp's fault that people will willingly form fleets that they know current hardware cannot handle flawlessly? also what game has 5-600 people in the cities all rendered along with the city, and isn't either a beastly computer only able to do it due to lots of processing power, or a slideshow?"
"make your mind up dear"
"remove jade... she's a bad role model."
"rick astley approves of this message."
"would also support smartbombs not being able to affect them."
"word!now to my rocket launcher defender phoenix!"
"their damage is too low, their travel time is too slow, and the smartbomb issue.citadel tops simply shouldn't be popable."
"this. and there's no short range, high dps option for capital missiles."
"already a topic in the hall on this, actually: plus it was mentioned that the issue was being addressed/included in the \"capital ships online\" csm topic--though i can't say i've seen it explicitly included."
"5k is the shields on my geddon. i really don't think a capital ship would mind it."
"i like the general idea of bombs only being used against caps, but should do even more damage then and cost less."
"-edit oopsadding this to the agenda for sunday 20/7/2008."
"2000? does ccp have a time machine i'm unaware of?"
"what gets me is i got both dates wrong in entirely different ways : "
"adding this issue to the agenda for the 20/7/2008 meeting.-edit oops"
"again with the time machines!"
"for the simple fact that i don't trust the players to determine where this game goes, i am going to have to throw in a non-support to this idea."
"against this until after the full force of npc empires are thrown into fw, as anything less would be a bogus win. this includes giving defenders the perks of the land, such as launching capitals in defense of areas, with attackers possibly being able to as well, assuming concord wouldn't intervene  or they'd just have to suck it up and deal with concord attacking them as well ."
"i had posted an idea for a fix for docking timers a while back  well before the csm existed , and i'd like to revisit it for this topic:to begin, i'd like to define two scenarios under which dock/redock can occur.the first occurs when a ship undocks, sees hostile forces camping, then redocks as quickly as allows, without fighting. i see this as a situation caused by lack of intel which should be present, but isn't purely to due game mechanic inadequacies.the second scenario is the classic docking game, where a wartarget undocks, fights for a period of time while testing his opponent and trying to kill weaker opposing elements, then de-aggros and redocks to repair damage done. i see this situation as an abuse of existing mechanics.the current docking timer is one minute long and resets each time a pilot performs an aggressive act. i fthe pilot stops performing aggressive acts, the flag will expire in one minute and the ship can redock. my suggestion to fix the the situation is to have the docking counter mechanics depend on the existence of an aggression flag. in other words, if the pilot has no aggression flag  has not performed and aggressive act within the last fifteen minutes  then the docking timer is one minute as it is now. a pilot can undock, look around, and redock one minute later  assuming he survives that long , regardless of enemy activity.if the pilot is flagged for any aggressive acts  this would include weapons fire, theft, etc , then the redock timer is reset not only each time that pilot aggresses, but each time someone aggresses him. what this means is that once a pilot makes a choice to engage an opponent, the resulting combat will, generally speaking, last as long as either side continues to fight. once flagged, a pilot would have to accomplish one of two things to be able to dock:1  escape the immediate combat long enough to allow the docking timer to count down, then dock before his opponents can reset the timer by attacking him.  example: fly out of scram range, then cloak or warp from safe spot to safe spot until the one minute timer counts down, then warp to station and dock.  note that even if you manage to dock, leaving the station while carrying an aggression flag will still triger the new mechanics.2  wait out the aggression flag; once a pilot is no longer flagged, enemy aggression no longer resets the docking timer.  example: a heavy ship could simply tank a smaller ship for fifteen minutes, so long as hostile reinforcements didn't intervene. the resulting mechanics allow for intel gathering  necessary since the windows in a station are not apparently transparent  but make undock/redock combat difficult if not impossible.as an aside, i suggest that these same mechanics be applied to jump gates: so long as you don't carry an aggression flag, mechanics work as they do now. but once you engage, opposing fire resets your gate timer, too."
"i'd support variable timers or the above idea."
"until they fix the bumping physics, no support here.bumping with small ships has always been a borderline exploit."
"right on! i have 22km lock range on my claw with long range targeting 5it's just ******edboost!"
"more lock range? yes please!"
"eos = information warfare mindlink = 15% extra locking range that! is what the eos is now used for. providing minmatar interceptors the ability to lock further"
"problem is you cant warp the eos and keep the link active. most of the time you have the claw ahead a system. a system apart the link will do nothing. the current solution is use a low slot for signal amps or use rigs. the thing is if it has such a small locking range it would be nice if it was better in some other regard. it's hard enough to maneuver in that small envelope and loose your target often enough and have to reacquire. with interceptor speeds and little tank that happens quite a bit to avoid getting webbed and killed."
": "
"yeah, it's annoying, but i don't think you should be able to tell on scanner which ships are occupied. just deal with it, keep towers on overview and learn to directional scan?"
"i have towers on overview, i can directional scan.belts and moons both orbit the same planet.simple example, jump into a system. one hostile, hit scan.right, we have 3 ravens, 4 ishtars, a falcon, 5 belts, 2 planets and 2 control towers.aim for first planet, scan: 1 raven, 2 ishtar, 2 belts, 1 planet, 1 tower.aim for second planet, scan: 2 raven, 2 ishtar, falcon, 3 belts, 1 planet, 1 tower.warp to first planet. use directional again. ahhh ok, all the ships are in the tower.warp to second planet, use directional. they are all in the tower there too - because the raven that was in the belts has had 3 minutes of you warping around eliminating empty ships in which to safe up."
"unless you have an alt in stain empire or have asked them yourself, you don't know what their reasons are. and their reasons in that particular case are irrelevant: using decoy ships at a pos to lure roaming gankers into a trap  or just make them waste time chasing shadows  is a valid defensive strategy for those willing to spend time setting it up, and you're seeking to nerf it for no particularly compelling reason other than that the basic directional scanner only gives you basic information and you don't want to spend 35 seconds probing.pos bowling is not the only way to get at hostile ships inside a forcefield  ask roadkill about their password security .against a ratting bs who is awake its virtually impossible to enter system and catch them in a belt anyway - if they're watching local and sensible with their actions and fittings they'll be warping out by the time you decloak on the gate, especially if they have a working intel channel to forewarn them of roaming hostiles."
"it's annoying as hell to the attacker and defender if there is actual action going on, so it's not a defensive strategy in the sense of actual defense.the fact that you have a pos to leave ships at means what you should be using for protection against the lone raider is the pos instead of a pile of trash at your pos to buy you time for being lazy and unaligned."
"no. there's no reason why the directional scan should give a 100% accurate assesment of the tactical situation. it needs to leave some room for actual recon work and skill. its quite easy to figure out whats in a pos and what isn't, just takes a couple more seconds."
"lets not forget if you don't use kinetic, the dps are cut by 25%, since there's apparently some mystery about other missile designs that escape the caldari state's researchers."
"to the people who have been asking, unless they changed it in the last couple of months and it wasn't in the patch notes, only one of the nighthawk's missile bonuses fails to apply to hams: the precision bonus. this was tested with actual damage, rof, etc. against actual ships.so,rof bonus applies to hamskinetic bonus applies to hamsprecision bonus does not apply to hams"
"in that case can we amend this to include \"fix the damn description\"."
"amen. maybe it can be amended to the issue."
"or nerf ecm a bit.being a falcon pilot i find myself using that in 90% of combat engagements and even i find it to be a bit too overpowered. with sensor dampening the target can still at least fight anything that's close range like a blasterthron, but with ecm there's literally nothing you can do except sit back and lolz while your ship gets chewed away.there needs to be more diminishing returns on ecm, at least in my opinion. especially if there's two ships jamming one ship.that'd take a lot less resources on ccp's part rather than introducing and balancing an entire new ship. but you're right, eccm does need a look at."
"remove the basilisk's bonuses to energy transfers the guardian already does that, and cap is an amarr thing , replace them with remote eccm bonuses, and double its sensor strength. remove the oneiros' bonuses to tracking links the scimitar already does that, and speed is a minmatar thing , replace them with bonuses to remote sensor boosters, and double its scan resolution. the caldari will hate me for this, but i think it's perfectly reasonable. these modules aren't good enough to support a new set of logistics ships, so renovate the ones we've already got."
"no."
"then will there be a logistic ship to be anti-nos, anti target painter, and anti sensor damps?it's silly to make a ship class based on one type of electronic warfare unless you make them for each type. but then gallenete get anti-ecm which fits in relation to their gang links, and amarr get anti target painters. minmatar with anti nos, watch out!granted i was intrigued at the idea of something that projected eccm, at first.eccm is viable, it was used in the tournament."
"afaik there are already ships with bonuses to remote sensor boosters, remote cap rechargers?"
"imo it is even more reasonable than my proposal the problem is that basilisk is a shield tanking ship and badly needs med slots. fitting projected eccm would instantly kill it's tanking. then peccm would have to be moved to high slots.also, removing the basilisk's cap transfer role would make it less atractive to fly. i guess it would have to be boosted in some other way  say, boost its tanking? i'll edit the op to list all options"
"the rules of the tournament make it much different from actual pvp. ships in the tournament didn't have to fit disruptors and sometimes even mwd/webs. this gives you 1-3 empty med slots, which you can fill with anything you like. in real pvp you have to keep your target in place to deal damage."
"projected eccm is considerably more effective than non-projected already, as i recall them it's 120% sensor strength for projected 96% for standard. i'd say this makes up for the downsides of using it. two ships with projected eccm on each other are harder to jam than two ships with their own eccm, and the downside is, as you say, if one gets jammed the other is much easier to jam.we don't need logistics ships available to counter every form of e-war, and while i think falcons and rooks are somewhat overpowered that's not a discussion for this thread."
"true it is different but it's not beyond anyone to put on active and passive modules if they feel ecm is going to hurt them. but then people have a general consensus that mwd is mandatory especially in 0.0. general consensus is that it's not worth flying with eccm or use projected. that of course is until someone shows it's effectiveness to a point that it becomes the new fad like rr battleships or whatever.whether you believe there is enough anti-ecm or not, you can not introduce a class of ships to combat one racial type of electronic warfare. tell me you don't expect 4 racial versions of your proposal.make it a capital weapon then you might have something, hell put on a rorqual, just not 4 ships types against one racial ewar. because if you ever balance or nerf ecm again then you have 4 less than useful shiptypes."
"falcons are not overpowered. i fly one myself and i know what i am talking about. it has no tank, it cant deal damage. the only thing it can do is disable 2 ships  3 if you are lucky, up to 4 if you are very very lucky  not counting the drones. get something fast like an inty or a vaga to babysit a falcon and he'll be rewarping constantly. 5+ falcons on the other hand is overpowered.you can hit jamming with a nerf bat again and make this ship a total crap like it was before the boost or you can provide adequate means to counter jamming. one that involves coordination and teamwork. the falcon itself is just fine."
"see option b then. i have changed the topic from suggestion to issue. the purpose is to find a compromise solution."
"tone down the falcon's ecm bonus by 5% per level. this makes it weaker and less effective and might even mean, gasp shock horror, that people will occasionally fly the rook, which is currently definitively worse than the falcon for nearly everything."
"ecm is quite balanced atm. keep in mind your flying a falcon: its specialized to do ecm! just try that trick on a normal ship.on topic, i think that more logi ships is a really good idea in general. right now i think the healing role in eve is really pathetic, mostly because the ships that are available for the role are really not numerous enough nor tankable enough to be really popular. really i'd like to see bs or bc logi ships. but still an anti-ewar logi is a cool idea too. in fact adding any new ships is ok in my book"
"a electronic attack ship is basically asking for a electronic defense ship. it shouldn't be purely eccm but instead focus on countering the ewar methods of the opposing faction. it even leaves room for both a t! and t2 version of different sizes, similar to the ewar focused ships already in existence."
"option b is an interesting proposal but doing so are taking away from the caldari mega tank that the basilisk and guardian can do for their respective types of tanking. it also takes away from their ability to sustain longer operations when their direct damage weapons suck juice, and possibly their tank as well. of course in pvp its generally a passive tank.proposing doubling sensor strength and and scan resolution of two of the 4 logistics would make the others extremely unbalanced. a logistic ships that was twice as resistant to jam would be a severe boost. because not for the projected eccm but for regular shield transfer. any logistic pilot fears the jam because it makes their job hard. i don't know if shield rep drones would keep repping afterwards. however the drones are used less generally.changing the bonuses like that would defiantly make logistics interesting. onerioses would make ganking megathrons and anything else even worse at gatecamps. your option b is at least much better than your original proposal. granted as it is now if this would go through i bet you'd get people asking for the scimitar tracking link bonus to change too. to what i have no idea but it's generally not used.see the trick is buffing a ship is a one to one ratio for offense. for argument say you encounter a 10 man gang with your 10 man gang. you have 9 other squad mates and you can tracking link one of them per link or do multiple links for extra efficiency. the return side of it when one of your squad gets primaried which is usually the case you can apply all your effects on one person. you are attempting to nullify 10 attackers with your one ship, and with multiple shield reps usually. and you can do a lot generally depending on the situation. you get more bang for the buck out of affecting 10 enemies attacking one friend than helping one friend attack one enemy. but secondary effects of all logistic ships have this effect. then again if you use energy transfer you can supplement your friend in tanking more, so in reality it also similarly affects 10 attacks with the mid slot secondary bonus. are you sure you want projected eccm on a logistics ship?einstein, as part of disclosure, can you pilot the onerios as well?"
"when the t20 issue happened, we were all promised by ccp that this kind of thing would never happen again...ccp gave us tribbles.we also all remember issues with gm's spawning themselves faction gear, but messing up and getting caught...ccp gave us tribbles.we have all heard the stories about 'alliance b' having access to 'priority proxies' and using said prioritised proxies to gain unfair fleet battle advantages over 'alliance i' by the reduction in lag thats caused.in responce to these alligations, ccp gave us yet more tribbles.so my questions are as follows:are the csm team happy, that procedures put in place, by ccp to prevent t20/gm spawning faction loot type issues from happening again, are adequate and workingdo prioritised nodes/connections/proxies/whatever word theyre called exist, and if so, are the csm happy that the measures in place are adequate to prevent their abuse? eg: what stops a gm from using said priorised connection from homenow you may think my questions are pointless, but they relate to some of the biggest issues to ever occur in eve, and i for one, would like to hear a non ccp voice on the matters. after all, when the idea of the csm was announced by ccp  some years ago  it was issues like these that the csm was stated it would be able to address.so for once, a non ccp voice to either confirm or quell these rumours would be appreciated."
"awe bless w0rmy, you are an odd one."
"tribbles are awesome, aren't they those furry things from star trek that kept multiplying?also, the gm spawning faction gear was something that came up before the t20 thing, and i'm pretty sure ccp said what happened with the guy.i'd love to hear more about the proxy stuff, it sounds like some grade a tinfoil hattery."
"im not interested in what happened with the guy...im interested in the procedures ccp stated they put in place to prevent these types of events happening again.its one thing for a ccp rep to say \"we have put procedures in place to prevent this happening again\" its another for those procedures to have actually been implimented and to actually be being used/working.and yes, im sure it may be grade a tinfoil hattery...but the csm are our reps, and this is a rumour id like to see quelled or confirmed once and for all.maybe so, but wouldnt it be nice to have these things put to rest finally?to have some form of confirmation that these 'secret' proxies even exist or not?to have it confirmed by the csm that these policies  which go towards protecting you and me  have actually been put in place?"
"priority proxies? lol!"
":cripes:anyway, if you check the accounts of the csm visit to iceland, they went out of their way to grill internal affairs about the things that are done these days to make sure employees and gms behave themselves. you're not going to get any of the details though because they're covered by ndas."
"personally, i couldn't care less about any of them what is it i keep getting rammed down my throat? oh yes... eve isn't fair. get over it."
"1. we had a talk with the head of internal affairs during out time at iceland. and they really seem to be trying their best to avoid situations like t20 and things.2. whut? wts tinfoil hat."
"assumption is the mother of all f'ups."
"yes we really need more tinfoil hattery."
"lol is assuming these things dont exist.no smart engineer, leaves the customers route as the only means to access their services, no smart engineer!which suggests that their are alternate methods to connect to the servers, so enquiring as to whether these alternate methods are policed at all, isnt a lol question.lol is you not realising these things are common place.theres a difference between your hauler getting ganked in empire and a gm spawning gear for himself.best to avoid them happening? best to avoid them becoming public?  considering it was hiden an denied for months beforehand as mentioned above theres stuff you cant say... but i never once stated i wanted details on how they prevent these kinds of events happening again, i completely understand that the procedures put in place, if any have been, arent even known by the gm's...which is why i am asking... \"are the csm team happy, that procedures put in place by ccp to prevent t20/gm spawning faction loot type issues from happening again, are adequate and working\" ...which is a question that has never been answered. i also feel its a resonable one to ask, considering the incident mentioned was a major force behind the implimenting of the csm."
"if they promised everything was fine you still wouldn't believe them, so what's the point?"
"dude, are you really not over that yet, or just try to build some steam up against alliance b again, by bringing up ancient history?we? as in you and your buddies from the institute?i've heard stories that did involve you and a horse. i'm sure tho, that reciting those stories would not be appropriate here and i suspect that there is little truth in those stories to be honest. still, they are stories. we can have an event some day and share these stories with eachother if you want.i didnt see this on the board before they went to iceland, so i guess you are a tad late with that question. you should have thought about this question sooner and you should have used the proper channel for the csm to bring this question with them. they might not be that obsessed with this part of history as you are.same as above.my advice to you: instead of writing speeches and questioning the csm, you should try what most other eve citizens manage to do:bring up a proper issue and gather enough support for it so the csm will have to take the issue to ccp.biggest is a realtive term. i would definitely not call this the biggest issue in eve.if you are so curious in finding out these things, then i offer my support for you whenever you decide to start an issue for it. not that i care that much myself, but if it can help to put the minds of some to rest, then i sure will help. just one thing:the issue should not contain hints at alliances, persons and past events. i do not like people using the csm as a toy for their in game political agendas. these questions can easily be formulated without stepping on anyone's toe.whats wrong in not telling about it? ccp said they did deal with the issue back then, when they figured out, they just never made it public. i dont think, that making it public had anything good coming out of it, except for ruining ccp's reputation, which was the obvious goal of the people who brought this to light. well, except for the formation of the csm, which might either be good or bad.. this only the future will tell."
"if by \"we all\" you mean the voices in your head, then yes."
"oh hey look an answer to the \"question that has never been answered\".stick around and in the next post i'll solve the meaning of life too!"
"from our conversation with the internal affairs department, i for one am confident ccp does everything they can to prevent any abuse of special privileges. i was very impressed with their rules and ways they enforce them internally  something i cannot expand on unfortunately .as for your idea of 'priority nodes', while we didnt literally ask about it, it seems extremely unlikely to me that they even exist - and we got no indication from ccp that this would be incorrect. it seems a severe case of tinfoil hattery."
"all this nano stuff is getting annoying, lets bring the nos domi back kill nanosmake the minmatars no cap use mean something againmake the pilgrim good againpossiably gimp with optimal + fall off, or sigradius based, aka that interceptor should be able to hold you down for 30sec-1min while its gang mates warp in."
"helllllll no.don't you remember the pre-nos nerf days? booooooring.besides, i fear a neuting curse/dominix way more than i used to fear them with pre-nerfed nos. especially for killing nanos, neuts >>> pre-nerfed nos."
"best way to kill nano=nos nuets r crap since u loose cap for nuetin the enemy nos ftw"
"nos and neuts are fine the way they are.nosferatus were clearly overpowerd in the past with no drawbacks at all."
"the nos nerf was one of the best things that happened to eve. ever."
"well nos should be changed. it should use your cap also."
"unnerf it all you like, anybody bringing a nos to neut fight is going to lose."
"no capless neut for you.besides, if a nanoship won't get in neutralizer range, and neuts and nos's have the same range, this would help how?"
"so nano ships all stay outside of 25km? and i decided to train amarr, you know the prenerfed race, before the nos nerf, so yes i do remember it"
"how bout instead of making nos overpowered to combat broken nano setups, we nerf nanos and make them sane?"
"you're assisting someone who is considered an enemy of the empires and kill on sight. don't make me bring in rl, yet valid, examples."
"ok, i won't make you bring in rl examples, because they have zero relevance to eve.and to reiterate, if i'm assisting someone who is not considered kill on sight to the sentry guns, why should it make me become kill on sight to the sentry guns? bear in mind i am mainly talking about low sec here, so no concord involved.and if an outlaw were to venture into high sec, concord don't spawn to kill him, it's left up to the navies. yet if i assisted said outlaw in high sec, concord would spawn to deal with me. what's the reasoning behind this? you can give me all the crap about enemy of the empires, but the simple fact is that there is a harsher response for helping an outlaw than there is for being an outlaw."
"you-of all on the csm-should know better than to toss off silly one-liners like this ."
"seems silly. needs to be looked at and maybe fixed."
"i have always thought this a stupid game mechanic and i think it should be looked at."
"bone, notice how i actually state it. i make no assumption about anything, i just ask a question to provoke an answer.but i think this is completely a matter of perspective.on one hand you have the \"ideals\" for how things would be in real life. this could arguably lead to the most interesting and fair fights.but on the other hand, you have the gameplay perspective. penalties are harsh, you don't want to penalize new players nor people who possibly didn't know better.so which one do you subscribe to? i don't know which one i do.on the first hand i can see that it would be a bit harsh and would invalidate a tactic which is very powerful. anybody who has flown a decent rr-battleship gang will know this. i remember flying in a gang which went to hed-gp. we were fitted for 20-100km range with different ammo, 2 remote reppers and pumped up effective hp. we would jump in and approach the keberz gate. whenever someone starts taking fire, we would start repping him while he disengage. if we couldn't take the heat, he would jump into high-sec.it means you either get a win or a stalemate, unless someone screws up completely. and you can take down things fairly well, as long as it's not too much nano.but on the other hand, increasing penalties would invalidate these, arguably, overpowered tactics.i quite frankly do not want to make this call, at this point. hence why i made that question to try and get an argument against increasing penalties."
"i would say that your response is a matter for a different topic. this isn't a question of whether remote repair gangs are overpowered or not, and taking sentry fire does not invalidate the tactics. there are plenty of difficulties involved with running a remote rep gang already  ewar, range, lag , and if you wanted there to be more then why should they apply only to outlaws?the current outlaw system is fine, i think most people accept this as i don't see any major complaints about it. i am trying to highlight an issue where assisting an outlaw has different penalties to those for being an outlaw, unlike the penalties for assisting war targets etc.if you think the solution to the problem is increasing the standard penalties for outlaws so that they match the penalties for assisting outlaws, i would consider that an alternative fix. but assuming the current outlaw system to be working as intended, i don't think increased penalties are necessary and the best solution would simply be reducing the penalties for assisting an outlaw. even keeping the sec loss would be fine if the gcc was removed."
"alt post ^"
"yeah, if you're going to have gcc like this at least make it sensible. there are a lot of random ways to get gcc and have it reset without letting you know. for instance, if you dock with gcc it resets the counter but does not actually reset the counter that you can see on your screen. so you dock with 10 minutes left, then undock after that counter is up, you will be shot by sentries for an additional 5 minutes, each shot resetting the counter to 15 minutes again.the whole gcc counter thing needs to be examined and cleared of errors like this."
"what--now you are jc junior?supported. and gcc is goofy anyway given that pilots can evade aggro simply by jumping into the next system to clear the timer."
"an why should the europeans pay more for services just to hold the dollar up? i don't care how currency exchange works, i don't care if the american economy is down. in america the minimum wage is still above 1000$/month while in my country is 300$/month. so don't expect to feel sorry for the american economy and pay more to cover the dollar loses.i don't think that you would like to see a similar price for goods:25$ dollars for america15$ dollars for the rest of the world.and the issue here is way ccp is charging the europeans more in absolute terms."
"the very problem is with the price listed, that is higher for europe than for others."
"ffs, will you stfu about this already? the price for those of you who happen to be euro has not changed. you are not paying any more of your income than you were previously.it would seem to me that you are trying to make those of us who happen to be american pay more of our income out of some petty sense of spite. seriously, are you so hateful that you want a good chunk of the server population to suddenly have to pay a higher percentage of their income if they want to continue playing?"
"no, i just want that we pay the same amount as you for the same product. there are no extra expenses if i play the game from europe or from other place. is not a sense of spite. is simple: or make 12 euro for everybody or make it 14.95 for everybody, i don't care as long we all pay the same price.and things has changed with the gtc modifications."
"becouse americans are used to have everything cheaper and earn more monay?if ccp wont price everone same you can rise this metter to some eu governoment dont rember in english what is called but they will make ccp to give same price for everyone."
"why weren't you arguing for the euros to pay more when the dollar was stronger, then? oh, wait...you weren't.moreover, you're acting like your price has gone up when it most definitely has not - you're still paying the same percentage of your income. if this had changed then i could see where you're coming from, but as it has not this is nothing more than an attempt to make other people pay a higher percentage of their income when that income hasn't changed either.i'm not sure if you're aware of how economics work, but just because the exchange rate is different now than it was when eve opened up doesn't mean that americans' incomes have changed to match the exchange rate. our incomes are the same. you are simply asking that a good chunk  37%, iirc  of the playerbase pay more of their incomes if they want to keep their subscriptions active...when continuing with the same subscription costs would not affect you in any way. that's pretty selfish.considering the fact that the relative minimum wage here in the u.s.  $5.65/hour  is only 50% of what it was in the late 1960's  $10/hour, adjusted for inflation  and the fact that incomes scale up from there  not to mention the fact that the cost of living keeps increasing quickly but with little increase in income , i expect you'll see a substantial portion of the player base dropping their subscriptions or at least the subscriptions of any additional accounts if your request was implemented. this would result in less money for ccp."
"avarage salry in my country is 3$/hour and i need to pay in euro ? why cant i schoose to pay in $ or euro? why america players get discout ?"
"first, you don't pay a percentage of you income for eve, you pay a fixed subscription. if your economy if falling is only your fault and you problem is not my problem.second i didn't propose to increase the subscription for us players. i simply want to know why i need to pay more.third, i get something extra for the extra 5$ that i pay? the answer is no.and the last thing. the price has gone up for me. why? because i am from an non-euro country  there are still many countries in eu that are not using euro as currency , and if the euro is going up relative to my currency, and my income is in my country currency i indeed pay a greater fraction of my income  if is a problem about fraction ."
"you don't get it!it is 14.95euro how much ccp charges. this does not include bank transfer fees and all. those are extra if the case. on another note, phone operators charge differently by country, so a company like ccp can charge like this too. just a comparison, just a comparison.it is not fair but is not somethign that uncommon.and i would liek to pay less and have some sort of \"equality\"  notice the quotation marks , but i do not want for the us guys to pay more. with one expception: if by any chance  which i do not think is the case  the extra from eu support the lower fee in the us."
"well, a phone company may have different charges because they need to install hardware in every country. and if the price of that hardware is different form country to country is normal that the charges will vary. but ccp is not buying hardware in every country where they have subscriptions. they only provide a service over internet, and the costs of providing that service is the same for all the countries in the world.if i want to rent a"
"why weren't you arguing for the euros to pay more when the dollar was stronger, then? oh, wait...you weren't.and when was the dollar stronger than euro in the last 5 years??????"
"joseph, i would suggest you move to the united states. you can help them improve their economy a bit. you can make three times as much as you do now  according to your own estimate of average wages . -and- you will only have to pay $15 every month to play. this advice is free. don't come crying if you single-handed get the us economy back on its feet and you're still paying $15 by the time $15 buys 20.it works both ways: americans have to pay 15 like everyone else, if they want to play the game after they move to europe. take a look at price development since eve launch, changes on the currency markets and reconsider.greetings, grismar."
"while it is clear europeans have to pay more than americans for the same service  this has nothing to do with the bank fees, but is because ccp charges 15 dollars/euros a month, regardless of the actual value of the currency , people are right in pointing out that it hasnt gotten more expensive for europeans - and it hasnt gotten cheaper for americans: everyone still pays the same amount relative to their income  assuming your income hasnt changed .the solution here is to use places like shattered crystal to buy game time cards, because in this situation, we europeans pull ahead :p.a 60 day gtc is $34.99 or 22.07 euros. meaning for a month of play you only pay 11 euros instead of 15."
"actually, this is not true. for that 11 euro you have to pay vat to. and with vat is 13 euro. and paying for 2 month by credit card is 12.95 euro per month. so is no gain there any more. there was a gain when the 30 days gtc where still in at 14.95 dollars, and that was ok. but with with the 30 day gtc, the options of the european player are gone to."
"seriously, this is so ccp. instead of changing the mechanics so that the drawbacks are also on when the module is offline, just as the bonus, they change the bonus, so that it has to be online because thats when the drawbacks work.guys, you slowly deserve your own page in definitions for both: \"overcomplicated\" and \"dumb\"."
"there is the same pattern in close range vs long range weapons except torps and hams:long range: more fitting, less damage, less tracking, more rangeshort range: less fitting, more damage, more tracking, less rangenow hams vs hmls:more fitting, more damage, less tracking  i.e. explosion radius , less rangethey follow everything like turrets except fitting. even rockets do follow on the pattern."
"station camping is often fruitless. the ardent station camping fans, can baiters and above all \"mercs\"  because they have to sit their or get kicked from the corp  provide endless opportunities for enjoyment, watching 3,6,12 15 people camp a station, flooding local calling the guy a shandy drinker for not coming out alone to fight, not even realising he's actually gone to do the laundry, and when he finally comes back to see local full of smack, he quietly undocks and goes on his merry way.i will never support you people who want to take this enjoyment away from me, and i will see you all burn in hell first... or something."
"small siege ship? = bslow fuel use structure claiming space? = smal lcontrol toweranything else?"
"in addition to sig bonus, target painters should also get the same % to explosive velocity of missles and gun tracking. i think this would make them more useful."
"target painters are underrated because few understand how they work, and underused because few have the midslots to fit any.the issue is not that target painters suck, the issue is that too much essential stuff goes into the same slots that they occupy.mwd, web, scram, injector: the magic four of pvp. there is almost no single ship below bc size  and in non-caldari races, below bs size  that has more than those 4 midslots. and in the rare case they do, they're ew specialized ships.that is the reason why only torp ravens fit painters - nothing else has slots to spare"
"make it 0.0 natural selection works nice^^"
"already told that but got bashed by caldarai npc corp guys."
"first off, i apologize if this has been brought up recently in some other thread. but i wanted to give my views on this subject.being an avid falcon pilot, i find that in gangs that's all i ever seem to fly anymore. ecm, at least in my opinion, seems a bit too overpowered these days. really, the only way to counteract it is by using an eccm or backup arrays, which almost hurts you more by wasting a slot or two. many times i have seen ships get destroyed before even having the chance to fireoff one shot. let's face it, i know i'd hate to be permajammed and basically be helpless to do anything too, but i'm taking advantage of that fact.now, i'm not saying to boost sensor dampening to offset ecm. i believe dampening, especially in principal, is a much more balanced form of ew as opposed to ecm. you may take much longer to lock the target, but you can still lock and send your drones. you may only be able to lock something 5km away, but that's still enough to put up a fight with anything that gets close i.e. drones, blasterthron, etc.with ecm, most fights are over before the ship ever has a chance to get a lock in. then you have to take into account two ecm ships jamming a single ship. even if you have an awesome tank and you're holding out against the dps, you're more than likely to run out of cap boosters before you're able to get in a lock.don't get me wrong, i don't want ecm nerfed like it was before, making it practically useless. but someone needs to look at this issue. i do not know what the answer is. possibly a better system of diminishing returns on ecm? anyways, it would be lovely if this could be looked into. maybe it'll get me out of my falcon more often and into something else. either way, it's a gameplay balance issue that i've noticed and that i think needs to be addressed."
"ecm is fine compared to dampening. tracking disrupting might need alittle love, but that'd be about it. also, it's hard to get within 5km of that target when they're webbing you from 10km or so, making certain you never get into lock range."
"i think you missed my point about getting into a fight at 5km range.\"you may only be able to lock something 5km away, but that's still enough to put up a fight with anything that gets close i.e. drones, blasterthron, etc.\"so say the scenario is a blasterthron with arazu support against just you. the blasterthron is going to web you so you can't get away, but it's still going to get in your face along with some ogre iis. my point is that you'll still be able to lock the blasterthron or the ogre iis and put up some kind of fight.  you have best chances especially with a megathron using electrons since their optimal is 4.5km now let's say the scenario is blasterthron with falcon support. you're not even going to be able to get a single lock before that blasterthron takes you down. you might as well be afk for the entire fight. what's worse is that falcon can be sitting 100km+ away while you're being permajammed. even if you do manage to get a lock, for most battleships without a sensor booster you're going to lose your lock to another jam cycle before you've finished locking. or, the falcon will simply warp away before you can get in range.the saving grace of ecm is that there aren't an incredible amount of people in gangs who fly ecm ships because they rather have awesome dps and be top on the kill mail or whatever happens to float their boat."
"nerf batting ecm would basically make the falcon suck. you brought up the arazu. the arazu can put up a tank, it can put out some dps and it has a special feature of putting a point on someone from a very far distance. 40 to 60km i believe, pending on skill and module type.the falcon has none of these traits. all it has is the ecm to tank and attack. it turns like a turd in a bowl, its capacitor sucks  warping long distances can make a long day  and the dps is horrid. by putting on a tank or increasing the dps of the ship you are effectively nerfing the ecm yourself."
"note: falcon does not = dps. you can fit 2 heavy missiles and still have your all out ecm fit. if you're soloing in a falcon then something is wrong. if you're trying to fit a tank on a falcon other than plates, something is wrong.falcon doesn't need ecm to attack, it needs it to tank, sure, i agree. but the ability to sit 100km+ away from the target while aligned is the strategy you use for a paper falcon and your chances of survival are amazingly high.i'm not saying to nerf ecm as in decrease the overall jamming strength. however, this ability to have an alt permajamming for you needs to be looked at. i've exploited this several times, as i'm sure many others have. if you look at it this way:dampening still gives you the opportunity to attack a target of some type, thus increasing your chances of survival. if someone is using a blaster fit and is say 3km away from you then you're able to fight them on most occassions. or if you're taking forever to get a lock, you still have an opportunity to outlast, lock, and get some shots off.webbing still gives you the chance to attack a target, though you may not be in range. however, you can still lock and send drones to a designated target.tracking disruption, again, still gives you the chance to attack a target. you may not be able to hit them with guns but you can still send drones.do you see this pattern?however with ecm you can't lock a single target, you can't send your drones against a specific target. you can launch them and hope that a new weapon type is fired on you after they're launched so they will aggress. that's really all you can do. unless you happen to use missiles and have some fofs, which really won't save you anyways, but it's a start.now, there's nothing wrong with the way ecm works. but, the ability to permajam someone for over a minute seems a bit too overpowered. granted most fights i've encountered with my falcon have lasted 30 seconds or so. that's why i think there needs to be some sort of diminishing return on ecm, or something comparable to it. ecm wouldn't be nerfed to the point where it's useless, but it helps to balance the different ew types.most people use turrets. how do you combat against sensor dampening with turrets? you try and get in range of something close to you. how do you combat against being webbed? change to longer distance ammo. how do you combat against tracking disruption? you can web the guy, get his transversal down and fire. but what are you supposed to do with ecm if you're using turrets? there aren't many options, at least, not as many as all the other forms of ew.  this is simplified of course but really, there aren't many options when you can't lock and there's no chance of you locking.of course, fleet combat or large scale engagements is much different, but if the ratio of ecm ships is the same in small gangs, the principal is essentially the same. hopefully, i'm explaining what i mean clearly."
"the 'keep at range' and 'orbit' functions should be an atribute you set to each ship.you should not have to reset it when jumping into differing ships."
"very good idea...it's very annoying how it is now.being able to add our own custom distances to the right click menu would be good to."
"even if you could have a particular setting that sticks... you'd still have to switch the settings if you used different ammo."
"yes that is true, but this would still be more convenient.i find often people tend to use very specific ammo types with given ships, and whilst you always want flexibility this change would greatly reduce resetting the ranges."
"when you move a character into a sub folder in your p&p they should not be duplicated, but rather moved to that folder only.provition should be made so you can make copies for different folders should you wish to do so."
"your analogy is flawed because salvage is not your property. it's ffa.so... business as usual, then?"
"ok, this is simple. a dev, as in the guys that made the game, said pretty clearly that salvage is nobody's. not yours, not mine, nobody's. they aren't going to change that, as much as you qq here on the forums or in game. therefore, you are deluded. you are trying to place your mark on things not yours, which irl is called stealing.take your delusions and morality and go play hello kitty or something."
"this really isn't the point of what many of us were seeking at all...personally i am wanting a sufficient large scale exploration ship as a matter of convience, sure but it gets old having to use an alt parked in a safe spot, and having more than one ship in a given area i'm trying to work is also just making it easier for me to get scanned out. and trust me my outlook on life is just fine as are my skills.i still think the idea of a new exploration ship has some merit so i'm glad to see the topic still being kicked around even if it's on the back burner."
"i'm an explorer and i'd like to see something like this as well - i think there are plenty of ways to make it not an \"all in one\" ship. looking at the marauders alone, there are techniques that can be used to hamstring a ship for pvp but give it pve advantages, like the abnormally weak sensor strength.an exploration ship could be made to be incompatible with the recon probe launcher so that it is only used for hunting down exploration sites and not players, could have an abnormally large sig radius, weak sensor strength, etc. to counteract a larger hull being equipped with combat and cloaking capabilities for exploration purposes.there's also the possibility that it wouldn't need a covops cloak - but these are all details ccp would figure out anyway, and it's more about the need explorers have for a platform to meet their playstyle."
"first thing's first, you need to learn how to hit the enter button and make paragraphs. grammar wouldn't hurt you either.second, over twenty thousand players have already gone through the \"noob\" mess you're talking about. this is a sandbox game, every time you're going to try something new it'll be in different places around eve and it just doesn't make sense to make 'noob-only' areas.if you don't want to be blown up, stay in high sec and get the experience you need in order to not get blown up."
"ignoring the grammar comment seeing as it is irrelevant.why doesn't it make sense? getting experience takes alot of time which is just fine but it is not fine for the fact that it wont keep a lot of potentially long term players interested in the game before hand."
"the n00b areas already exist. 1.0 through .5 systems. they are in a npc corp immune from war decs. the only thing have to worry about in these systems are suicide ganks  in which they at this stage, they should have little or nothing to give reason to get ganked  and their own stupidity. i mean how much codling do you think is needed?"
"i'm talking about noob low sec areas as well though. call it what you will but i think it would get more folks interested in this game if they could face those of their own or similar skill and sp lvl. give them something to do and yet have it so that what they do doesn't mean immediate explosion for exploring the funner aspects of this game. i would rather help them then hinder them to have more folks in this game."
"updated the op with additional agenda items  csm please check mailing list for submission docs associated with these ."
"yeah and about as much hp as a battleship for good measure."
"agreed, to force the enemy into close combat.the damps themselves should stay the same to prevent the old problem with them, everyone using them.if the ship bonuses are increased to much they may make one damp on an arazu too powerful enabling the pilot to lock-break many enemies, after all damps are 100% certain to damp.so how about this, give the gallente ewar ships the bonus of not applying stacking penalties for rsds. rsds from two celestises on one target would be stacked though with one ship doing ~80% damping even though it does 100% damping from two or more of it's damps."
"/..."
"i have requested this issue to be added to tomorrows csm meeting : "
"signed.... should be obvious why."
"this would really help."
"if not dual/triple screen support, then it would at least be nice for proper multiple client support  and most likely easier to do too.  e.g.:a shared object cache for every running client on a machine. option for a \"borderless window mode\". automatic placement on a screen when logging in. shared mail state  if i read corp mail on one client/account, i don't want to read the same again on the other account.  shared overview settings  i don't want to repeatedly update my overview settings on every account, when they're all the same. "
"/signed"
"would be nice, but i don't think it should be high priority."
"standings[issue] standing slotscheers"
"great idea./signed"
"as the main problems have been posted already like the jump rang, fuel, cargo bay and the bad lock times i seen some interesting ideas to boost this ship to be more interesting and to have a role.for example star jumping, not sure if this is the right name but i guess most will understand what i mean. th ability to jump 1 system and jump to a proximity of a star in the next door system would open loads of options that would make this ship class interesting, though its potential of being exploited is big when there aren't any restriction.1 startjump uses 95% cap and this starjump mod can be activated only once every hour   or so  , so you cant really escape losing fights by star jumping out and you cant use it to travel trough hostile systems by jumping trough them all unseen and untouched.the bo starjumps to next system, he opens a cov ops cyno so the second bo can jump up the black ops gang.cov ops cloak on a bo would make this ship to powerful in my opinion. with a fuel/range adjustment and an better locktime this ship class will be a lot better and then with a starjump option it will get a good role also."
"how about changes along these lines?they are both if compared to the roles recons have, combat variants, not force/combat, so instead of one being ewar and cloak, and the other ewar and dps  as is the case with recons : one can do the racial ewar, one can do the racial damage, and both can covops cloak.to balance this they retain most of their current weaknesses:1 they have low sensor resolution, so that they cannot solo - need a covert tackler of some form to actually kill something.2 they have low hp, so lend themselves poorly to tanking3 they have low numbers of weapon hardpoints, as now, so you cannot choose to fit say 7 turrets or 7 launchers, but are limited as now to 5.this way you have a new and different way of distinguishing between the 2 variants  because they are both actually combat variants , and both variants retain the wetwork capabilities granted by the covops cloak  if they don't have it they are by no means covert operations ships, if every time you want to move you are visible, then you are not a behind the lines ship  unless you are nanoed up the wazoo but that is another matter .eg: widow  ewar version : jam strength/range bonuses for bs skill, covops cloak cpu bonus and missile damage/rof  pick 1  bonus on bo skill  note damage bonus is on the bo skill - reduces dps from all but the most hardcore of pilots, and even at 5, damage dealing ability is lower than combat version, due to only 1 weapon bonus widow  combat version : missile rof/velocity/damage on bs skill  pick 2 , then covops cloak cpu bonus and jam strength bonus on bo skill  again at bo 5 the ships overlap to a degree - jam strength is lower unless bo 5, and even then range is lower to differentiate them this would be a good way of generating 2 flavours of black ops ships i think.i think fuel bay and jump range increases and ability to either jump to stars or jump into cynojammed systems should also be added to black ops functionality, though someone had a nice idea of using a deep space transport  name defines which t2 indy can go  as the jumpable fuel bay for a black ops gang."
"redeemer  ewar : neut range and tracking disruptor effectiveness on bs skill, damage/rof  pick 1  and covops cloak cpu reduction on bo skillredeemer  combat : laser damage/rof/optimal/tracking  pick 2  on bs skill, tracking disruptor effectiveness and covops cloak cpu reduction on bo skill  no neut range bonus on this one or the other one would never be used panther  ewar : rof and webrange bonus  enough to give it 20km with a t2 web, so as not to tread on rapiers feet  on bs skill, velocity and covops cloak cpu reduction on bo skill.panther  combat : rof and velocity bonus on bs skill, damage and covops cloak cpu reduction on bo skill.sin  ewar : damp range and damp strength on bs skill, drone damage and covops cloak cpu reduction on bo skill.sin  combat : drone damage and sentry drone optimal on bs skill, damp range and covops cloak cpu reduction on bo skill.just some rough ideas for the other racial bo."
"i must admit that bop's need a serious looking into as they stand. several good ideas above that i like, starting with:1. dedicated fuel bays, increased jump range, ability to jump into cyno-jammed systems  all in conjunction with a portal being lit for you . lastly, being able to use a jump portal without having a second character  only make it a random/star jump into the system and based on cap? rather than fuel .2. need to base the bop's on there respective recon conterparts as suggested in above posts to give them a defined role.3. as most people have said above these ships are supposed to be geurilla warfare types, so in that respect i don't like the idea of them having great tanks. they should be in and out quickly hitting as hard and fast as they have the ability.taking into account no.3, when stealth bombers are used in conjuntion with the above ships with there new abilities then you will have a decent dps.but one way or another these ships do need a serious overhaul and not the softly, softly approach some are adventing in this thread. if all you do is change a small amount then your still not addressing the problem with the ship being under-powered and undefined in it's true role.my two-penneth...."
"exactly my thought on this, this is one of the most frustrating things in eve, especially when you're new and training a whole bunch of low-ranks skills to levels 1-3. just give us a backup-skill to set and be done with it!"
"/signed."
"/signed"
"/signedbeing able to jump somewhere and back is what matters, could be done by simply not applying the 24 hour counter if you're jumping to a clone that was active less than 24 hours ago, i.e. it's still \"fresh\". that way if you jump you can jump back and forth between that clone and the one you were in in the first place."
"yes, definitely : "
"signedthe two main issues mentioned in the post that i don't like are:a  removal of choice - bring back the 30/90 day gtcsb  inconsistency of pricing - cc & gtc should be equivalent, and the price should also be independent of currency imo: fix the price in euros or dollars and let exchange rates take care of the rest."
"eve needs to be cheaper than wow. end of."
"signed."
"i agree with what ccp did.i have no problem at all with it, and to add to it i do wish that ccp would stop skill training on all accounts that go to inactive status."
"/signed"
"here's an idea, how about making war declaration a bit more complex by, as you said setting up war dec goals. but also limiting the decs to constellations, regions, high-sec or low-sec for instance. that way you can pick and choose what type of war dec you are after:war decs on a corporation or alliance:1. eve-wide wardec, you can attack anyone anywhere, but as one goal has been reached, the war ends.2. region wardec, you can attack anyone in that region, but as two goals have been reached the war ends.3. constellation wardec, you can attack anyone in that constellation, but as three goals have been reached the war ends.4. high-security wardec, you can attack anyone in high-security space for the duration of the war-dec.5. low-security wardec, you can attack anyone in low-security space for the duration of the war-dec.goals:1. inflict x amount of kills against said entity. 2. receive x amount of ransom isk from said entity.3. entity x disbands, or if an alliance x % of member corporations leave the alliance.4. receive x amount of item x  from said entity.etc."
"there are several good ideas above that i believe should get serious consideration due to the fact of the woeful state that bombs are in atm.for the price you pay for the bombs they definitely need to be more powerful with a greater area of effect and falloff. this would work well with the idea that a small fast ship with low sig radius would still have a chance of getting away with lesser damage, while the slower larger ships will get a greater hit. if a ship was caught with it's pants down and was stationary then it should recieve the full benefit of the bombs effects.no matter what happens to the deploying ship as long as the bomb was successfully launched the it must detonate.i like the idea of having multiple bomb launchers  3  with the ability to also carry 3 bombs in the cargo hold. this would allow the pilot to work away from home rather than close to area's where stock is available and also reward a pilot if he stays alive to get another chance at causing trouble  rather than being a one shot wonder! .i'm undecided as to whether you would need a cocd on the sb as that i believe would be taking away the role of the cov-ops ship to a certain degree. as long as the sb can warp into let's say a cov-ops at 0km  as suggested above , deploy his bomb straight away and then at least have a chance at warping out, then in my mind that is a good enough trade off with the above suggestions taken into consideration.my two-penneth...."
"disabling services should also apply to 0.0 npc stations in my opinion.how can you reliably stop an alliance using npc station services? currently, you cannot."
"ccp, if my view is of interest, the problem isnt that they cannot be destroyed, but: - they cannot move, be moved. and thus, since a station dont fly anyplace, the system cannot be made free of the station. if the placement of the station was extremely badly planned, in some guys view, the constellation just got messed up and blown for eternal time.its like making a command&conquer base in a bad place, and get it flooded with engineers, who take it, bad.id settle with kicking it as a football into tau space so a titan would be needed to cyno it out again f.ex in different system, same constellation . or, a destroyable outpost where its content would be shipped to closest constellation outpost, as, a fleet of scc and concord ships depart and simply head for closest station.the destruction of assets, are not, imho, a desired outcome, but outposts as non destructible parts of 0.0 might be undesired in someone's view.and, i have to add, i understand its a lot of designs who would need re evaluation if these lines of ideas was done, touching upon database, sql, design of features, and, not in the least \"safe\" stuff as stations.my idea with kicking the station into limbo, tau space, 5. dimention of nether zone, or whatever, would work best mechanically, but then you get ppl logging on to find they cant undock until someone bring the station back into eve's world again."
"interesting, i had no idea that simply shifting contents from the hangar to guns could cause such large amounts of lag.i would love a more technical explanation of why this is so and what can  or can't  be done to fix it. i'm guessing this is just an issue of lag being caused when any generic item is moved from one container to another. though this would be a bit of a hack, why not give weapons an \"ammo_quantity\" attribute and an \"ammo_type\" attribute, where the \"ammo_type\" attribute references a singleton entity that provides the damage types and modifiers.calling a function on a singleton object might be significantly faster than moving items between containers."
"yes and no.making multiple commands increases the network load because you're sending \"change x ammo\" eight times instead of \"change 8x ammo.\" from the server's perspective, the fact that the commands come in sequentially lets it process the requests as they arrive instead of being slammed by all of them at once. i'm guessing that the server cycles are a greater bottleneck then network bandwidth."
"biggest problem i have with ccp is that they are far to quick to focus on new shiny at the expense of getting the core gameplay right.i have a really hard time believing that fixing the server load problem they describe is harder than, for instance, introducing a pointless walking-in-stations module.support the original request, don't support this nonsense response from ccp."
"with every signature of support on this thread, we come one step closer to realizing the dream of the cetacea stellarum! i am in full support of this idea."
"this sure could add some interesting new concepts."
"nice, and it's a simple thing that fits into existing gameplay rather than requiring whole new mechanics, unlike some real ccp projects we could mention."
"lots of ideas being bandied around and for what it's worth here's some of mine.1. you cannot just get rid of pos. there is so much time and effort been put into established sovereignty and infrastructure that you cannot just nullify them. make them more defined in what each type of pos can do and what can be done to them would be a good start.if you want to make small/medium sized gangs more useful in 0.0 territorial warfare and working towards goal related warfare, then make it easier to target small and medium pos. make small and medium pos purely logistical with only a very limited array of weapons for defence. the likes of jammers, bridges, cyno gens, mining arrays etc... can only be put at small/med pos. this makes it easier for those size gangs to be able to actually cause alliances some damage.when it comes to taking over systems then it's back to the normal large deathstar pos for claiming sov, but with one change being large pos can only be anchored at planets  thus eliminating pos spammage .2. any help in changing how the pos are fuelled and the general upkeeping of pos would be greatly appreciated. making this process less tedious and time consuming for all would be a welcome change and let people get back to having some time in-game for fun again.conclusion - to stop quite so much boring pos sieges, cut down on the number of large pos needed to get sov in a system i.e. planets for sovereignty!with this one change alone you will have cut down on the number of large pos's being deployed be a factor of 10, and from that point on for ccp to remove the idea of pos claiming sov will be a lot easier on current alliances than just moving towards a fw or multiple layer solution and wasting billions upon billions of isk in regards of current infra-structure that is currently in place.i have no problem with ccp moving forward with new idea's for sovereignty in 0.0 but do believe they need to structure it properly. the ideas for getting more small/med gangs moving through space with dedicated goals to achieve to disable/aggrevate an enemies infra-structure is a good idea in principle, just don't go rushing into anything too soon like that!"
"/signed"
"probably because its hard to boost mining missions so they aren't rewarding way too much or they aren't rewarding enough."
"i think this thread gets little attention because most miners wrote off mining missions as being totally useless months or years ago. they take a long time, pay badly, and are generally just as dull as the real deal.that said, i would love to have them have a point, being predominantly a miner."
"the \"old\"  first days of the new mining missions  extra reward was nice, having some low sec/0.0 ore spawning in the mission  or even some large/good quality high sec ore  will give a reward similar to looting  i.e. you spend extra time and get extra isk  without being unbalancing  you still need to clear the mission target, so the mining yield is less than doing a regular mining op . at worst, if ccp fear people farming the missions, they can implement a 12 hours mission limit, like for militia missions."
"come on!!!!! fix!and make the gas cloud harvesting mission shorter  with 4 gas harvester, it still can take 2 hours of mind numbing ... watching ... or more rewardable  that the gas is actually useful?  ... spending 2 hours doing really sucky thing  cause you already rejected another gas cloud mish 30 secounds ago  isnt fun...."
"this too!"
"i agree. mining missions need some love!"
"i'd have to think that the only people who benefit from mining missions are those who sell the corresponding minerals at the station at a high price, which is then sold to someone getting said mission and not wanting to bother with it buys said high priced ore that still comes under the reward total just to get it over with.....run on sentence ftw!"
"yes, mining missions need love. for one they should put back the generic asteroids, maybe limit them in mine-able ore amounts or reduce the time until mining mission expires so that farming those missions does not create too much of an imbalance.at least put back some kind of rocks for the scenery because at the moment they look very empty."
"are you using a full flight of 5 drones? are they t2 or t1 drones? which damage type are they against which faction?my experience with level 3 missions is that medium sized t2 drones can do everything you want done assuming moderate to well trained drone skills. the most popular for missions seem to be the t2 hammerheads. it isn't until you get to level 4 missions that the characteristics of fast npc frigates really make the light scout drones a better choice than the mediums.i'm not sure why the mediums failed you in your mission. i can, however, see why the heavy drones failed. your assesment is correct. tracking is an issue for those big, slow drones. also, they have a tendency to be too slow to stay in proper range of fast moving frigates, even in level 3 missions.thank you for your support.windjammer"
"attack patterns for drones where they fly in a fixed formation perhaps?"
"i've not noticed the bumping problem, but supported anyway."
"so essentially you have lost 3-6 million isk to the suicide ganking issue, in the course of 2.5 years, just over a million or two a year  depending how i read your words .and you honestly think they broke even? or slightly better than even? they could have made more money ratting or doing missions than ganking you. suicide ganking isn't as severe as you think. especially in your case.so you mined an hour to make up your loss, and the ganker ratted an hour to burn his sec status back up, no one really lost anything."
"ah, but i pay attention to what i'm doing.the mack would have hurt with t2 harvesters and the named upgrades. the one in the ice belt sucked for them, the others the mods alone would have covered their losses after insurance.now it really wouldn't hurt any. even losing my hulk, i got enough isk made off it that it's paid for itself. plus i got enough in my account i can easily afford a replacement with or without rigs."
"instead answer this one:for what reason would you go after a miner in highsec?if they were funding an enemy, the proposed changes would make little to no difference. you blow them up. if they smacked you in local enough to tick you off, you blow them up. again no change.if they were sitting there in the belt doing nothing and you wandered by and thought \"hey, maybe i should just blow up a miner\", now you have to put something on the line. as it is right now if 2 t2 strips and 2 t2 expanders drop, you break even after insurance while blowing up a ship worth in excess of 300m if they have rigs on. a ship that cannot, in any situation, defend itself from the attack and still do its job with any efficiency. when hundreds of these ships are blown up for the lolz with little financial loss, and hundreds more ships are beign blown up simply because they are flying through space, the costs need turned up a bit.we already discussed tradeable killrights, that could be the answer instead of insurance because it again increases the \"costs\" against the attacker as they never would know when they are sitting at a station undock port waiting to kill something if that gank ship that just warped in was going to target them instead because they now hold a contract on them."
"see, this is where i think the problem is. those making the attacks are willing to do so without making sure they can break even. it costs them so little, they aren't worried about individual targets because they know in the long run they will get an idiot hauling too much.they can gank all the idiots they want, i just want them to have to selectively target the ship that will make them iskies."
"the very issue with suicide ganks is only that there is no risk nor real effort for the ganker. voiding insurance for concord would provide risk for people too lazy to find good targets, and more effort for those who do because the measure for good targets goes up a few notches. so yes this would solve the problem without destroying that playstyle. it would just become limited to those who professionally pursue it, or those who can take a fairly hard financial hit for the lulz. which is as it should be imho.how insurance doesn't make sense from an rp perspective is beyond me. that might be your opinion, but certainly no proof.only professions that do not directly hurt other players should require no cost. professions that base their success on directly causing loss for other players should and for the most part do have a cost. only suicide ganking and scamming, which ironically are those that hurt the victim most usually, have virtually no consequences. and since you need to be fairly stupid to be scammed, but can be suicided while just playing the game normally, something needs to be fixed there.also suicide ganking has not been a problem for a long time due to external cicumstances. there used to be enough of targets in lowsec for the pirates to play with, battleships with fittings used to be a more significant loss even with insurance, there was no overheat, deadspace equipment used to be a lot cheaper...now i guess we could also get rid of the easy mode probing of lowsec mission runners, remove the drone regions again and get rid of t2 mining ships, get rid of overheating and put static plexes back in. but nerfing insurance for concord kills is a lot easier.if all players were equally vulnerable everywhere, you would play with 400 others, not 40.000. and you would cry about everyone being the same as you and thus no targets to visit grief upon. and what is better, no targets at all, or a lot of targets most of which are invulnerable but some of which are not? the only reason to prefer the former is pure spite against those who have the gall of wanting to play the game for themselves rather than being content for you.and to avon: the proposed nerf to insurance would only kill your insurance if you appear on a killmail, so newbies or idiots who accidentally trigger concord would not be affected at all."
"this is an argument that has been shot down repeatedly. there is risk and effort for the ganker. however, that risk and effort is based entirelly on the precautions and the intelligence of the victim. suicide gankers prey on stupid players. voiding insurance is a stupid-player protection scheme. no, it's been proven quite well time and again. insurance in eve is not an rp mechanism. it's completely stupid that any company would pay out as much as they do with so low premiums. hell, they even have a completely free option where they pay out 1/3 of the ship cost for no isk in premium. in short, insurance is a game mechanic to drive the economy, not rp.why should those professions have a cost? i don't think they should. hurting other players is pretty relative anyway. you can argue that miners hurt other miners when they mine their ore.no, you have to be pretty stupid to get suicide ganked too.so, why aren't you whining about those things instead?and a complete cop out if you feel the problem lays elsewhere.this paragraph is so wrong and i don't have characters left to answer it. i'll just say it's dumb."
"its just that it is not very reasonable  not that i expect you to understand the meaning of this word  to demand those things changed back, as it would be a truckload of work and have far reaching consequences. while insurance nerf fixes the problem as well and only has consequences for a few griefers who have it way too easy in the first place.it is not dumb. it is just beyond your comprehension to grasp what motivates other people to play a game, and anyone tying to enjoy the game in ways not according to your vision is a worthless carebear to you anyway so anything he says is wrong by default.but to get down to your level, the only dumb thing is trying to argue with you. a brick wall is more openminded and has a better understanding of balance."
"just for you, leandro, i'll explain why the paragraph is, indeed, dumb.no. we'd probably get rid of some wastes of space that fail to realise that eve is predominantly a pvp game, but then again, there would be much less animosity among the community if everyone realised what kind of game they are playing. a good trade-off if you ask me.there are no targets now. i'm talking low sec here, where piracy is supposed to be a driving force. people are so scared of losing their pixel-boats that they all retreat to high sec. we are forced to follow. excellent straw man. there would always be targets. the targets would obviously be smarter on average than your common apple pie, but that would just be a good thing.no, as i have already explained, i would rather have a game with a few less stupid players and get rid of all the whines about the game being too hard. that, in my view, would make eve a much better game."
"don't try to act smart. it doesn't become you. what is reasonable or not is not up to you to decide. i think it's very reasonable to expect ccp to look for what's best for the game and make plans for the future. i would very much like those plans to entail a complete re-work of the entire empire with all the security mechanics revisited. that would be very reasonable, as right now, they are pretty stupid. insurance nerf is, as even you hinted at, a band-aid for the broken leg that is empire.it is dumb. carebears are pretty worthless as they don't contribute anything to the game. they are the parasites of eve, not adding anything, but demanding that the game should be changed to suit them. a carebear does not see reason. he wants everything handed to him on a platter. preferrably silver. i say, **** off and go back to wow.we have argued before, leandro, and you lost that argument too. know what's best for you and stop posting."
"if you really believe that, you are quite delusional. eve is what the players make it, and despite the devs having started it as a pkers paradise, it has developed into a nicely balanced game for anyone but the most diehard wow carebear. and to me that is far preferable to what you suggest. and i think you seriously underestimate the number of players in the game not interested at all in hurting others or becoming content for those who are interested in that. well it is not our fault that ccp made lowsec missionrunners pirate loot waiting to happen and does not provide proper means to fight back before the pirates have fired the first shot, or the silly way docking games work. get those things fixed and people will probably come back to lowsec, and piracy can go where it belongs again. i know i used to enjoy lowsec back when, but today there is just no point to living there anymore.well, i guess you might actually be honest enough in your crusade against anyone not interested in ganking or being ganked that there is no hypocrisy in you and you would really enjoy only targets that are hard to impossible to catch and yield no great loot. but i am afraid most of the few people that would stay in your vision of eve would not enjoy it for long.the players i am campainging for are not stupid, they are casual. stupid players should get ganked and will still get ganked even when suiciders get no insurance anymore. but a mission runner flying a simple faction fitted cnr without using an alt scout, a cloaking device and/or refitting in the nextdoor system should not be suicider prey imho, he should be able to relax and enjoy the game without extreme risk from other players. if anything, the missions themselves should become more challenging, at least against that you could fight back properly. but if you jump a mission bs into a suicider camp, you are dead no matter what unless you have a cloak on, and even that won't help you anymore when the suiciders adapt to people doing this."
"i would agree with this, just that your definition of 'reasonable' seems to be 'whatever ki an deems right'. plus imho a band aid is still better than no treatment at all for that broken leg.while i agree that true wowesque carebears, those that want instances and pvp flags and stuff, truly contribute little to the game, the suicide ganking affects a lot of normal players as well, those that simply want to play a space game in a fairly relaxed manner. and they provide the market with demand, they provide ccp with subscriptions, they provide other people with someone to chat to, they eventually provide pirates with targets and likely someday even go out seeking pvp themselves. and one suicide gank in the mission/ship progression stage of such a players eve career will most likely end it then and there. which imho is bad for the game, not good like you think. i vastly prefer the contribution of this type of player over what suiciders contribute against the game.i don't remember losing any argument to you ever? i only remember losing interest in the arguments from time to time because however much i am willing to go towards some sort of compromise, you will not budge one inch from your 'eve is only good if you can grief anyone anywhere anytime' attitude."
"why?"
"all that is needed  without changing mechanics or style and feeling of pk heaven that is eve  is removal of insurance payout for suicide gankers. police destroyed your ship after you committed crime, insurance corp doesn't pay up."
"you call them \"wastes of space\", ccp calls them customers. thankfully, your opinion doesn't matter in this instance.and i suppose you wouldn't happen to fall under the category of those obsessed with destroying others' pixel-boats, would you?and by smart you really mean players that share your own opinions, nothing more nothing less. everyone else is just stupid.except this will make the game harder, just not to those you despise so much. so by default this proposal gets your \"thumbs down\"."
"gonna leave the rest of your replies, as most of it just falls into that \"agree to disagree\" cathegory, making it futile to discuss. however, i would like to make a point here that faction fitted faction battleships does not fall into the \"casual gamer\" cathegory. a casual gamer just looking to run some missions would set up a normal raven with t2 mods on. this has a lot of advantages for the \"casual gamer\":1. it does not cut into his bottom line. he has more liquid isk if he doesn't put it all on his ship.2. it actually makes the missions more of a challenge. not much of a challenge, but still a bit. 3. it does not attract suicide gankers.a player flying a faction fitted faction bs should be the subject of suicide ganks. he has chosen to pimp his ride in order to flaunt his wealth. it should not come as a surprise that other people will want a piece of it."
"this is where i believe you go wrong. a faction fitted faction battleship is the pinnacle of the casual gamers gaming, but it is nothing in the ranks of real pimp rides. he starts running missions in a lowly t1 ship with t1 fittings and as he earns money, he progresses in the game by improving his ship and running his missions ever faster. may not be your way of play, but i can assure you that this kind of playstyle is very rewarding to less aggressive mindsets. it took me two years to get slightly bored of it, and i still make occasional excursions into it.certainly there should be a point at which the increase in 'wealth flaunting' by far outweighs the increase in mission efficiency and thus makes the ship a valid suicider target. but imho that point should not come as low as it currently does, where anything with two navy invuls will present 5 suicide ravens with a worthwhile payday. voiding concord insurance would pretty much put it at the perfect point imho, which is somewhere around 1 billion in fittings."
"no it hasn't. it has been claimed that the only reason this happens is because 1  people are stupid 2  npc corpers. we have shown, and have had multiple people point out that 1  happens to empty or near empty ships that are undocking and have no option of getting away 2  pc and npc corp ships alike equally.i recommend you do some more looking around and come back with proof for yourself.think about these two statements and you see where you go wrong. first you say we will lose only wastes if things are equally as dangerous, but then you say people are so scared of you in lowsec they have moved to high sec. that should tell you one thing: eve would be as empty as lowsec if your desires were how things were that and you would be fighting blob warfare against people with fleets of titans like you despise since we have to make the danger \"the same everywhere\".the majority of gamers do not want to participate in pvp. ccp provides for non-consentual pvp in many ways but at the same time does not guarantee that you can find it.no carebears == no targets for you to shoot at. no carebears == no one to buy your expensive loots. no carebears == no money for ccp. no carebears == no servers for you.everyone has a place in this game, ccp has stated so repeatedly. they have stated that a non-violent life-style is perfectly viable. that is why this will be altered, the balance has shifted sufficiently against ccp's claims of how they want their game."
"it has been shot down repeatedly. read this and the other threads. gankers risk time  something ashen, admittedly an idiot but anyway, has claimed over again is a factor in the risk for miners . they risk kill rights. they risk isk  not much, but some , and they risk bad standings with npc empires if they fire on npc corpers. people are able to mitigate their own risk to a degree where it is either not profitable to hit them, or they are very hard to hit. what you are speaking about are the exceptions. that's not how suicide ganking is normally done, and those that do it are pretty bad at suicide ganking. whatever the case, if they fire at empty haulers noone is loosing anything but the ganker, so there's really no problem.no, if we cleaned up the wussier elements of the game, new players would have a chance to grow and become active in the pvp side of the game later on. thus, fixing low sec. right now, the carebear population is effectively scaring new players out of low sec with wild tales. i know. i've seen it in the npc corp chats.that's a pretty rubbish statement. it's bs because you are stupid if you play a predominantly pvp game with a dislike for pvp. i know that goes for many of the posters in this thread, but you continuously prove yourself to be on the lower scale of the intelligence graph. also, you have absolutely no proof, so this statement effectively comes right out of your ass. let it stay there next time.more bs. no carebears, we shoot good players. no carebears, good players buy expensive loots at less expensive price. no carebears, eve remains a niche game, but doesn't die. no carebears, we all live happy.face it, nobody needs you.viable, yes. effective, no. pvp will always rule this game, because that's how it's setup. carebears will always find a way to play the game, but they will never ever be a needed and contributing factor."
"i think suicide ganking is a legitimate mechanic, but atm it may be a bit too cheap. i don't think insurance should be removed or any of that, but i do think the insurance values should be re-done  i mean hell, regardless of what you're using the ship for, 100% insurance is always wayyy over market value of the ship . so, just drop the insurance payouts by like 2-6%."
"you need to spend more time in high sec around trade hubs. it is not an \"exception\" anymore, like has been pointed out previously. precisely. and if they get blown up now while they are still carebears and lose the whole 10m in t1 missiles they are carrrying, they are less likely to stay in the game and try pvp later. they are already jaded against it. hence the whole reason for \"safer\" space.and yet you just said that you have driven your targets out of lowsec and have to persue them into highsec. doesn't that tell you something? you are scaring them out more than npc corp chats lowsec is empty because it has been over-hunted, not because of wild stories. start an alt and take a mining barge or ratting cruiser into lowsec in caldari space, i give you 20 minutes before it is blown up  ant that is on a quiet night . is this bad? no. but don't try to paint it as anything else.unnessesary insults aside, i have more \"proof\" than you have to the contrary.the most visible ones at the moment: lowsec being empty; you admit that they don't want to fight you there so have left. npc corps; the main reason given by both the pvpers and the carebears for being there is the wardec system and not wanting to be blown up. even the whines about suiciding of miners and haulers.what do you have for evidance? whines on the forums about not being able to attack people because they stay in stations to wait out wardecs, corp hop, stay in npc corps, etc. the pvpers' whines do more to reinforce my stand than hurt it personally i like the fact that eve is dangerous. i shoot back. i can also see where broken mechanics are and where that hurts the game because my world and people i talk to in game extends beyond the pvp corps and alliances. i play with small corps and alliances, with players from 1 mth to 3 years old. mostly pve but occasional forays into lowsec for fun. i have no issue with pvp. i have an issue where broken game mechanics fail to be the detriment they were intended to be."
"maybe the solution is for ship producers to put up their prices?insurance pays on a base mineral price - if people are selling ships for less than that price, and therefore the gankers can mitigate their costs through insurance, then why aren't we all just buying and reselling/melting down/insurance frauding all these underpriced ships?"
"doesn't work like that. if you sell for x, someone else will always sell for y, undercutting you by .01 isk.if a few manufacturers controlled the market  think the old t2 market  then that would work. otherwise they will sell for what they think will move the product and make them a profit. it is too easy to build things, hence too many producers on the market. manyof them also believe that just because an agent gave them their datacores or they mined their own ore that those items are \"free\"."
"simple, when one person attempts to sell a ship at higher price someone will inevitably undercut them if possible.this is made worse when many consider minerals they mined to be free  rather than consider the actual market value of them , or value them as cheaper. [makes me laugh to see someone say they can make a profit on a module that costs 500k to make and sells for 450k for example because they mined the minerals]only real way to get the insurance =< ship cost for the more popular ships would be npc only sales of all ships.and for awhile people were melting them down, and some still do  though it's usually more effective to just buy modules to reprocess  [shuttles were a good example]it's the amount of market competition : people see which ships are in demand so they work on producing them as cheaply as possible to still make a profit while undercutting the others."
"i fail to see how ashen angles' observation is flawed. i know people who sit in station with a trading alt and do this very thing. they make an insane amount of money doing it because they know how. just to give you persepective, i know one who spent over a billion on a new pimped up marauder and 2 days later he'd recovered the expenditure through trade.windjammer"
"so basically there isn't enough risk or loss to drive up costs?hmmm..."
"hey, i've just had an idea ...say if there was a way for people to randomly attack peaceful miners, and the logistics chains that support ship production, maybe mineral and ship prices would rise to a point where suicide ganking would be unprofitable?maybe suicide gankers could do it... oh, wait.but ships still cost less than the insurance.oh.in that case, the only logical conclusion is that suicide ganking does not have enough of an impact to drive up prices to the point where it then nerfs itself..sorry, what was the problem again?"
"hehe. that is the pvper's mind thinking.the pveer's mind doesn't think that way. loss of a mining ship doesn't equate higher cost of doing business, it equates grinding 2 months to buy another one.*if* they could only get their isk back through mining or hauling, then yes they would mentally add the costs of lost ships back into their \"prices\", but only right until someone else that didn't get blown up kept theirs the same. because as soon as they factored their loss in they immediately cannot sell because someone else is lower."
"there is market competition to fill the demand. problem arises when everyone sees that x sells well and jumps to fill the need flooding the market.there are plenty of t1 ships that cost more than the minerals used in them, and make a nice profit.  100% insurance on a magnate for example only covers 50% of the ships market value; t2 ships are the worst for insurance vs cost there will always be modules/ships that dip below the cost to make them, due to oversupply at that time. when it becomes unprofitable many will move to the next big thing.much like mining, when trit is selling really well most will focus on it... and then the rest of the minerals go up as the supply tapers off. but once the rest rise up enough and trit drops, it happens again with the best mineral available.it's the result of a dynamic market."
"at one time in my life i raced sail boats. one of the more prominent racers from that time in my life once stated the following; \"if you can't dazzle them with brilliance, baffle them with bull****.\" i beleive you are attempting the latter part of that statement.windjammer"
"the problem is not a lack of demand, its an oversupply of minerals because someone had the ingenious brainfart of giving us regions  and to a lesser degree, missions  where the npcs drop minerals instead of bounties, thus forcing even non-miners to flood the market with them.and mineral haulers are not exactly primary targets for suiciders anyway. now maybe if the suiciders did go after anything hauling huge amounts on minerals into the production centers...but that is utopic since it is more profitable to gank item haulers on the way to/from jita or mission runners, and disrupting the mineral supply would make them cut their own flesh, and suiciders are a lot of things but usually not stupid."
"i could just as easily say that eliminating suiciding, non-consensual pvp, etc from the game will not \"hurt\" it either. it might actually grow as it becomes safer and more players stay. of course it wouldn't be eve anymore, but some great wow in space. i would leave also.what this is doing is hurting gameplay in the weakest areas of the game and driving off younger players before they even have the option of discovering other areas. there is also an illogical concept of the government funded insurance rewarding you for performing illegal actions. think \"younger\" in this case as a mental state, not \"age\". they haven't graduated to attempting other aspects willingly.i would even say that by suiciding mining barges and haulers you are even driving more players to other more pve oriented contect like missions where they are less likely to get ganked because they are in the wrong place at the wrong time. we all know how well most people love mission runners and their \"risk free\" isk.i would also say that suiciding miners increases macros and isk sellers. every legitimate mining barge you blow up equals a player that has to consider going back into the belts again. macros and isk sellers don't care; they go right back because it is not a game they play for fun. think about that one; if you play for fun are you likely to continue an activity that results in you losing your stuff all the time? macros don't care about the fun aspect....."
"i can see you're focusing on pure economics. to do so is a narrow view designed to aid you in this argument and given the style you've written some of your posts in, i really do not think you're overly worried about \"muddying the waters\".leaving pertinent data out of an argument of this nature is a lot like manipulating statistics. you can make them say anything you want by leaving little things out of the calculations.to leave the concepts of fun and excitement out of this discussion is to ignore an important set of data. if you approached playing eve from a pure economic standpoint and you believed miners were making more isk/hour than you, you'd be a miner. you say you believe miners make more isk/hour than you and yet you're a can flipper. what's wrong with this picture?windjammer"
"so, in a nutshell, we are saying that it is too easy and too safe to produce minerals and ships - thus prices are rock bottom?so, we should be looking at ways to encourage more widespread and effective suicide attacks on miners in order to force up prices, and thus raising the cost of ganking?agreed. this twisting logic thing that you guys use is just so much fun. "
"let me fill in the pieces that you conveniently left out...can't wait for the first whine on the forums; \"oh god, i accidentally activated a mod in high-sec, received a warning regarding this action, clicked ok anyway, got concorded and received no insurance and realized i was an idiot and realized that i should not receive insurance.fixed it for you"
"unworthy of and beneath you. i'm embarrassed for you."
"i'm framing this and sticking it next to my pc.comedy gold."
"or we could simply take away all pve content including industry and have npcs issue ships as needed for free.removes carebear from the equation all together... but we all know that would kill the game now don't webesides, suiciding miners doesn't cut it. i can sit in stations and even without scrap metal reprocessing make more off modules than selling them. i can set buy orders at 75%-80% of module mineral costs and make isk reprocessing them... and still have higher buy orders compared to most.you got too many vectors for minerals right now: drone regions, reprocessing, mining, loot some mobs do carry refined minerals "
"i don't remember anyone suggesting that.is that your new position?"
"well you and others see everything though combat, why do you care about the other play styles?simple fact: the market will adapt to compensate. markets like eve's are dynamic, not fixed.the result is lower prices right now, increases in risk/suicides drives out one play style... but it's the play style that in this game gives you those wonderful toys to use to shoot each other.isk sellers would love it, they could make more money for less isk because there would be a lower number of miners/industrialist. so prices would go up, and the ship losses could be countered by switching to less efficient and cheaper ones since their product sells for more."
"i'm glad i brought pleasure to your life you wanted tangents, since that is what your arguements are, i gave you tangents. they are as accurate as yours are  meaning pretty much crap  "
"that's an obviously false remark, farrqua. ashen has already made clear statements regarding this.eve has no non-pvp zone, never has and never will. ccp has stated this in no uncertain terms. i know this, ashen knows this, pvper's know this, the entire subscriber base knows this and you know this.windjammer"
"yes, i know.oh, there was more?his observation is based on circular logic, much like yours and anaalys or whatever the hell her name is. he lists how miners balance risk vs reward, but obviously doesn't realise that those points factor in for a suicide ganker too, you know, the ones who according to you guys are ubalanced when it comes to risk vs reward. it's so obvious a mistake that i am led to believe that he is either knowingly trying to twist his argument, or that he is completely and utterly stupid. later posts of his has proven that the second is true."
"and that just goes to show how little you understand me.i would stongly urge you read over some of my past threads before you make me out to be some pvp meathead.i look for a balanced, varied, and interesting game. that means embracing gameplay which i am not myself paricularly fond of, and ensuring that it is balanced and integrated.i have have pushed for many changes in eve which would have adverse effect on my own playstyle, simply because i want what is best for eve, not for me."
"ki an........i agree with you on this. god help me. however, i'd like to point out that the planned changes to make suicide ganking more meaningful will not in any way stop the suicide ganking of faction fitted ships. wave billions of isk in front of a suicide gang and they are going to bite. doesn't matter if they spend a week ratting their way back up in sec, it's worth it. worth it in terms of the giggle factor and in terms of raw income.i wish more people would trip to the fact that marauders seem to be designed to alleviate this problem for mission runners.windjammer"
"it was not a challenge or a false remark. just that ques are wasted on some when they are too focused on banter."
"okay, i see where you're coming from on this one. i was thinking of billions in modules, not millions. those faction shield boosters can cost almost 2 billion for just the one module and that's what i was primarily thinking of.windjammer"
"people who devolve their arguments into allegations largely revolving around terms such as \"stupid\" and \"dumb\" shouldn't really be using terminology beyond their grasp such as \"circular logic\". it show's off their level of intellect. paraphrasing samuel clemens, \"....best not to open your mouth and remove all doubt\".windjammer"
"why not putting a non lootable wreck for when you are not on war against the target you destroy?wreck only lootable by the owner"
"ah, i see. you're with ashen on the whole \"i'll just quote someone smarter than me and maybe i'll pass off as smart too\" deal. the reason i continue to lable people stupid and dumb is because they make stupid and dumb arguments. ashen, as an example, has continuously proven his lack of knowledge of game mechanics, his inability to find the glaring gaps in his own logic, and the lack of common sense enough to know when not to speak about something he doesn't know anything about. he has also shown his ulterior motive as a recurring suicide victim. what was it, five times? you, on the other hand, don't even comment on what was actually written. instead you call me out on my labelling people, even after i explained to you that said labelling is accurate.moderated.~weatherman"
"let see on the victim part: 5 attacks in about 2.5 yearsnet loss 3 mil. whoopie do, i make more than that in an hour.2 attacks right after undocking, no scan just passive targeter and attacks.  1 was actually empty 1 attack using a warp to 0 on a covops and locking down the wrong target as my mack warps out.. again empty hauler 1 attack because my overview loaded too damn slow  which they screwed up and tried to gank a t2 tanked hauler thinking it was the t1 version ps: nice reading comprehension skills when you can't count the fact it was 4 attacks, 1 of which was mainly an attack on the mack and not the hauler.i go by what search shows when i use it. when there is no ccp post contradicting it, i go by what is posted.so where are the links supporting your view, till i see them. i'll not waste more than a few moments to post if i even bother to reply to you."
"so why are you whining? you didn't lose anything. people you keep talking about really don't lose anything. yet you keep dragging up losses like that as proof that suicide ganking needs a nerf. boy, you dun gone make yerself silly yet 'gain.nah, it's just that i prefer not to keep track on how many times you fail. 5 was a good enough guess.where did you find a ccp post claiming that was how it worked? could it be that you didn't really search at all? could it be that you actually thought it was like that and are no too embarassed to admit it? yeah, gonna go with the easy answer on this one.what kind of links do you want? links to more people telling you the same thing? links to sites where fussy cartoon animals claim suicide is murder? what kind of links?the links i asked of you multiple posts back, and which you have as of yet failed to deliver, support your claim that most people in this game are carebears like you. that should be an easy link to provide. you must have read it somewhere, so you should be able to link it. there is a difference between a reasonable request and a bogus one. mine is reasonable. yours is bogus."
"the only whine i see is from you about this is a pure pvp game...and everyone is hiding in empire and npc corporations...and immune to most pvp...if it was a pure pvp game, there would be no way for them to be anything but targets.you want the info: go look for population statistics, compare the combat regions to the empire regions.look into the number of wardecs compared to the number of corporations.look at the numbers for factional warfare compared to the population numbers.go look at the numbers and come back and say that everyone is in for the pvp combat..."
"quit putting words - or anything for that matter - in my mouth. i have claimed that eve is predominantly a pvp game. that is more or less a direct quote from a dev. ccp wrangler. he's community manager now, and has posted in this thread. you can look it up.translation: i can't provide a link, because the statistics i based my argument on doesn't exist. instead i fell back on the economy report like the good carebear i am, and basically made up a bunch of stuff about what the numbers meant.what does this hint to, oh wise one?  i don't really think you're wise. i think you're an idiot. i was merely pulling your leg. again, what would this mean? please provide analysis for your worthless ideas.again with putting stuff  words  in my mouth. i never said that. it is evident by this very thread that a lot of people don't really enjoy pvp. my point is, was and shall continue to be, that those people should not determine how ccp balances their game. the people who don't want to pvp are in the minority. i can make this claim because i can look at numbers and actually analyze what they mean. unlike you."
"show me the numbers that show the minority?come on mr links, lets see them.or is that an assumption on your part that contradicts the numbers ccp has come up with and shown to all because it doesn't suit you?"
"but there isn't, therefore by your own arguement eve is a pure pvp game."
"you can't shoot a trader in a station.and yet he can shake the very market.you have industry, again something they never need to undock to do.there are pure non-combat styles of play.not everyone is out shooting other players in combat.quite a number never engage a target at all."
"no, it's simple reason. lets start by analyzing econ dev blog 3.in it there are numbers speaking of active characters within npc and pc corporations. 195 000 characters are active in player corps and somewhat more in npc corps. the high amount of npc corp members is interesting here, so lets delve deeper into that. the blog also makes comparisons about amount of skill points on average per character in the different kinds of corps. interesting here is that the average amount of skillpoints for characters in npc corporations is around 2.7 million, whereas characters in pc corporations have an average of around 13.5 million skillpoints. there are two conclusions one might draw from this:1. a large number of the characters in npc corps are new players with low amounts of skillpoints.2. a large number of the characters in npc corps are unskilled alts.this shows quite clearly that the amount of players with their main character in an npc corporation after some time in the game is pretty low. this lets you draw the conclusion that most people tend to gravitate towards the more unsafe player corps.also supporting this notion is how the most flewn ship in npc corps is the kestrel, a caldari frigate requiring little training. this again hints to new players and alts. in pc corps, the most flewn ship is the raven, a bird that requires a lot more training.let's move on to the quarterly economic newsletter, 4th quarter 2007, which contains some interesting information.during the last two weeks of quarter 4 of 2007, 49% of all characters  not accounts or players  moved only through high sec space. numbers you might have heard on the forums such as 80% and the like are wrong. the real number is 49%. that number is below 50%, so we have already established that less than half of eve's characters stay in high sec all the time. now, let's break that figure apart by using reasoning and the numbers we have learned so far. we know that there are a high % of new players in the npc corps. npc corps make up more than half of eve's characters. this means we will have a significant % of new players moving about, and those tend to stay in high sec. let us say that 5% out of the 49% staying in high sec are new players. i think this is on the low end, but still close enough. now we have 44% to account for.we know from earlier reports that eve has around 220 000 payed accounts. there are about 500 000 characters on those accounts. this means that there are on average more than two characters made per account. of these characters, one character is designated as the main character. the others are alts. so, we have established that there are a lot of alts in the game. we know from common sense that the majority of players have an alt in an npc corp to check prices, scout and the likes. this means that a lot of the characters in npc corps and the 1-man corporations are alts. especially market alts don't generally leave the system they are supposed to monitor, so a rough estimate is that out of the 44% remaining, around 20 or 30% are alts. this is also on the low side, but it doesn't matter. we are now left with 14-24% of the total amount of characters in the game that are unaccounted for. amongst these are the players who don't like pvp and keep to high sec.that's a minority.q.e.d"
"i didn't say combat, and neither did you - the term was pvp.stop changing the parameters."
"yes you have 49% that stay only in empirenow did you consider mining operations into low sec & null sec. many carebears will do so with the proper coverage.you also have an unknown in the number of players that do cargo/travel runs through low sec space in order to reach point b from point a in order to save time.nor does it account for those that hop into low sec simply to drop off/pick up cargo for trade runs. how do the skills break down, not just ships flown? many industrialist have done missions to build up corporate standing for less tax on station refinery services.  i do them for just that reason did they look into combat ships alone, or a break down of most common ship for that character?and you are making an assumption in your reasoning that all accounts include a combat main, versus the possibility that some are industry oriented players with alts trained for industry or trade.you use data that does not provide all the data needed.the only ones with the full data set are the developers.and they are taking steps to change things, that in some ways:a - make high security space safer  adjusting the cost/risk to reward of suicide attacks b - adjust the wardec system due to it be a griefer tool at the moment  to quote them so from the stance of the developers there is a good portion of non-combat oriented interest in the game."
"read the whole post, and quote the whole post.last line is the key there."
"yes, i have considered those. they are by definition not carebears and not unaccustomed to danger. that's what living in low-sec and 0.0 means. unknown as in not factoring in on this debate. arguing about those is useless, but i think we can both agree that the percentage is not high enough to significantly alter my analysis.again, that is not worth debating as we have no statistics for it. spaceship command tops the list. trade is at the bottom. this has nothing to do with anything though. all ships where taken into account. you know this, right? you have seen the document, right? right?no, i don't. i am merely stating the facts that are there. the reasoning i apply is all based on the numbers. the point is that your claim that most players stay in high sec and don't like pvp is wrong. the numbers you have so desperately clung to clearly show it.then do your own analysis of the data. it is there for your perusal. i stand by my analysis, and i believe it to be close to accurate.so now you change your tune from \"the data shows us carebears to be in the majority\" to \"the data released in not complete. the secret data only the devs have access to shows carebears to be in the majority\"? seriously, dude, how do you expect anyone to take you seriously.which is what we are arguing here. i have shown numerous times that it is not necessary. however, i understand why ccp would do this. if i had to read posts like yours every day i would do anything to stop it too.and this proves what exactly? no, that is just something out of your ass again. look, i have shown you the numbers you didn't want to show yourself. i have broken it down for you. it is over. you lost the argument. now you are just getting desperate, and it is pretty pathetic.lay it off."
"i used the quote to illustrate what you're doing, not to borrow the fame of mr. clemens.i did not call you out on your labeling of people. i called you out on the exact terminology you used, i.e. \"dumb\" and \"stupid\". honestly, i keep expecting you to break out in lete speak at any moment. i also called you out on your lack of knowledge with specific respect to the term \"circular logic\". you don't really have a firm grasp of it.your \"logic\" seems to lead you to conclude that anyone who has been suicide ganked has no valid argument against suicide ganking since they have been victims. the same \"logic\" could be used to say you have no valid argument against the planned changes since you are a beneficiary of suicide ganking. that is to say, your logic is no such thing. it's just a long list of rationlized self serving statements which in many cases do not even have a passing familiarity with logic.your labeling is accurate because you say it's accurate? for your edification that is circular logic. please make a note of it.and here you are revealed in all your intellectual superiority. holy cow you have to be right. you can cuss and everything. i mean.....how could you be wrong if you know how to do that.i have read a good many of your posts and i have to say that the majority of them leave me amazed. how is it possible for you to beleive you're making sense. lately, however, i've started skimming them. it's just not worth my time to bother to read them when you've been reduced to childish name calling.windjammer"
"stick to the topic, you ****ing ****."
"gosh, you're good.windjammer"
"getting mad yet?perhaps you would like to strike me? or we could just continue the debate. i've just managed to prove that carebears are in the minority in eve using the very numbers you carebears have been toting as the greatest proof that you are in the majority. so, i guess you're screwed."
"miners are carebears, having overwatch can mean hiring a merc corp. but the ones doing the mining are not combatants.actually it being unknown on several points, with no data means any statistical analysis is flawed and subject to be tweaked to suit the need of the person using it.a good example is your refusal to consider the gaps in the data. because you know there are traders and simply the curious that head to low/null.one could argue the numbers just as easy with flawed data: the alts are on traders and industrialists monitoring the markets so the majority have no combat alts. hence why a far better examination is in order.but go drink your milk and cookies. maybe some day they will post the full data.and we both know: they can look at the skills trained data on all the characters. the traffic data has a variance due to: mission runners  cargo, combat, and simply better agents taking mission runners into low sec; miners headed into low sec; traders headed into locations to drop off/pick up cargos; and transition systems between high sec locations the only whinge is yours, because they change the game to make it harder for the combat oriented players to have combat in high sec. it still leaves the option, but will make the costs associated with it higher.if they wanted it to be a mostly pvp combat oriented game, things wouldn't be tweaked to make it harder to engage in grief style attacks  suicide attacks and the current wardec system "
"two things come to mind. one, this proposal largely eliminates the need for death stars, meaning that said death stars don't need to be fueled. two, fuel pellets. i don't fuel poses, so i can't say much more definitively, but it seems like those two would reduce a lot of the burden."
"so many good ideas. not sure which one is best, but it does need to be looked at.i like the idea of more types of reactions."
"i love this idea personally."
"/,,,"
"scrap the cap warfare pilgrim...introduce the smartbombing pilgrimbonus to fitting/cap use + range, maybe even damage. it will be like a non failboat bombing stealth bomber, or hearken back to the days of no recalibration delays with smartbombs on battleships."
"i agree that having no range bonus, the amount bonus is pretty much useless."
"umm the drake works great with ham's."
"talking about the inability to fit command modules on drake/nighthawk specifically."
"it is quite clear that speed is there intended design. but irregardless of that, without mobility over larger ships  bc's and bs's  there is literally no point in flying a hac. if a hac turns into a brick than any battlecruiser or battleship will be able to own it at a fully insurable price."
"yup, just look at all those speed bonuses hacs ge... oh, wait."
"well its a light ship. if you want a heavy tanking/dps ship for that price you are better off with a battleship. without speed, hacs dont really have any role and will end up similar to the assault frigate."
"well sounded like you were specifically talking about ham's. but if you look at most  all?  of the other battlecruisers you have to drop turrets to fit command modules too."
"so tell me jade, just how much damage are your heavy missiles doing to that sac going 3km/sec? keep in mind the sac has a repper, so he can repair that severely reduced damage you're doing to him."
"i'd like you to quote to me the backstory that says the caldari favor long range due to the gasllente favoring short range.i'm pretty sure those 1 man fighters the caldari used to shred federation battleships weren't long range, nor were the gallente railgun boats short range."
"avon those resists/hp and larger sig/mass are just there for show obviously. howe couldn't we see that heavy assault ships are suppose to be flown like interceptors, just like their frig counterparts, right?"
"yup, how stupid i am.i should have known they were light ships - having \"heavy\" in the name is a dead give-away.silly me."
"the gallente railgun boats did not exist iirc - they used blasters.if i get the time i'll look it up.i could be wrong, but i am pretty certain that is how things stood."
"even if this absurd 1v1 was representative of the capabilities of the cerberus, it tells us about precision heavies, rather than the cerberus. and we all know that precision heavies are broken, and that the csm is raising it with ccp.but most importantly, stop comparing the cerberus with the sacrilege. they are completely different ships used in completely different roles. the cerberus is not a nanoship - you're confusing it with the navy caracal and navy osprey - and it can do things that the sacrilege can't dream of."
"even if 'fixed' the precision heavies will do reduced damage to a ship going 3km/sec.oh, and the cerb will also be going significantly slower due to the speed penalties, allowing the sac to get closer much faster, allowing the cerb to die sooner.a long time ago, before nano setups became to win button of choice, hacs would fit these things called tanks, and thanks to being smaller and agile, they were able to fight just fine against battleships, sometimes even winning 1v1 thanks to their smaller size and base agility.despite popular, yet incorrect belief, hacs are not speed-based ships. anyone who thinks ccp intended for ships build for extra armor and firepower, to become large interceptors is nothing short of insane.people might have a hard time remembering this because back then you'd pay 2x as much for a hac as you would a battleship."
"won't disagree that that nanos do play a hand in messing balance up.."
"you are a bit off the mark, let me tell you what happened:hacs got a 12.5% increase, t1 bcs 56.25%.this caused normal tanking of hacs to become pretty much obsolete.ccp essentially killed the concept of tanking hacs that day. so dont tell me hacs are meant to be slow and tanked.there is generally no tanked short-mid range hac you couldnt beat 1on1 with a tech 1 battlecruiser, for half the price and fully insurable.*the same problem exists for command ships, if not for gang modules you can do everything they do with a bs, only cheaper and better. but at least they have the gang module niche.and beating a sensibly fit bs with a non-nano hac nowadays? you must be joking.taking away the ability to nano hacs will essentially make hacs into the real heavy analogon of assault ships, meaning absolutely useless for pvp.thats the balance problem you got there, and thats why you see so many nano hacs, non-nanoed ones just cant compete with comparable and cheaper t1 ships except for the niche of extreme ranges.people dont nano hacs cause its so fancy, they do it because if you tank a hac its not competable.* e.g. a ham drake can have 100k ehp, 190 passive shield recharge and 620 dps, all at the same time. using hms for range, or javelins with the hams, 500dps. try that with a hac. the best you can e.g. do with a cerberus is 400dps 47k hp and 100 shield recharge, or 500dps, 42k with hams. have fun slugging it out with the drake. and before you ask, the sac would be 550dps and ~50k hp, no recharge, with a much lower range compared to the cerb."
"you are failing to take in to account the relative resists of the ship classes."
"i'd like to see cerb boosted, or at least sacrilege nerfed"
"meaning?the ham drake has 64/72/78/82 which is pretty well rounded and 100k effective hp, the cerb if he plugs the em hole has 71/88/82/69, and ~42k effective hp. the drake can switch to em, still do more damage, and have three times the tank. effective hp of the cerb vs em are 34k.even a heavy missile drake still does 430 dps in em.the 12.5% vs 56% assume a much larger difference in resistances than the ships actually have. 1 hp on the hac is worth ~2 on the bc, but thats not enough to balance the hp increase.show me any tanked hac fitting that beats such a drake  preferably without going all officer or something, but even that probably wouldnt help . everything else is just vague talk. why should one tank a hac if it gets outperformed that much by a tech 1 bc? signature radius? doesnt play a large enough role if you are slow. bc vs hac there is no difference at all, an example torp raven, where it should make the biggest difference, does around 1050dps to the drake and 680 to the cerb. still doesnt cut it. with other bs the difference is minimal at best.the drake is admittedly maybe overpowered and so not the best comparison, but it doesnt look like its going to be nerfed soon. with other bcs you generally get around 80k hp and 4xx dps, still beating a hac.my point still being, being able to speed tank is the \"niche\" of hacs. outside that niche, they are sub-par. the niche may be overused currently, but taking it completely away will make hacs pretty much useless.* for clarity, if people dont believe the drake stats, the fit is: 7x hms ii or hams ii, 10mn ab i, 2x invul iis, lse ii, large regolith i, dm ii, 3xbcu ii, 3x core defence field extender i, hams fit nicely with a 3% pg implant, hms you probably need to go 2x regolith cause of cpu issues, but then it fits without problems."
"not supported here  even as a relative n00b, bout a month .people on the rookie help channel will advise that a new player trains all their learning skills first and, if people take this advise, then i agree that the game would be very boring for those on a trial, not being able to see themselves get better at anything other than learning.imo skill training is not only about specialisation, its also about balance. true, specialise in the type of ship you want to fly and the types of weapons you want to use, but the learning skills should be balanced among these.one of the biggest things that attracted me to eve was the lack of grinding : i'm perfectly happy to offset that hugely monotonous task by committing a little of my time to learn, and if theres a way i can learn faster: fantastic! and i don't even have to be here to do it!i also believe that it separates those who just wanna blow stuff up from those of us who are willing to put in the time it takes and become a little more committed. as already mentioned it creates diversity. and diversity is good.anyway i ramble.... not supported"
"a much wider variety of elements in the missions is needed.and the loot gets so dull after a while. i don't even bother to look at it."
"supported, but shouldn't go overboard. for example, you know a mission is against that type of rats, but you dont know exact freaking force composition for every pocket."
"/signedhaving the rare occasion of an overseer, or a faction rat in a mission in 0.0, and complete rarity at museum level in empire is good, and i wouldn't request them more frequently  though empire ones could produce significant loot more frequently,  but other shootable objects should be provided."
"oui"
"/signed"
"the stats on these have to have been an oversight that is simply in dire need of being properly fixed."
"so you guys all think it's okay that a titan can decloak, fire a dd, and recloak in less than 30 seconds?no risk, 100% reward?saying smartbombs and drones are the counter doesn't cut it! if the titan is 300km away from you when it recloaks, all of your small ships capable of doing more than 1km/s have had to leave field or been destroyed, so you're left with your plated bs and your capital ships, all of which do less than 300m/s  and that's conservative , it'd take at least 1000 seconds, or 16 minutes to reach the area that the titan cloaked at, in which time the titan can move itself away.capitals and supercapitals should not have the ability to cloak. i fly capitals myself, and sometimes fit a cloak, but that shouldn't be allowed! ever! it's insanely imbalanced."
"signed"
"i could make a mint selling peanuts to this shower.grow up ffs./em wades through the knee-deep sea of spat dummies, out of the thread."
"i didn't vote for jade, because i know what he's really like, and i know that he, like the rest of the csm, really have no authority, and if he really is disliked so much for being who he is, he won't be elected again, ever, unless people forget what he's like.that said, ccp should bar most of the current csm from ever running agin after seeing them, during the nh discussion, actually say they agreed not to bring up things like ship balance. that right there should be grounds for immediate removal. you don't get to say 'oh well we will ignore x and y', you are there to voice our concerns, and you ignored one with a lot of support.burn all of you that took that cowardly stance, you're disgraces to the players that voted for you."
"signed. not only because of those actions listed, which i hadn't heard about as i don't really care about csm enough to read the stuff, but because i don't like jade in general and think he/she is a carebear."
"i think the most amusing part of this... jade still doesn't realize he and all other cms's are supposed to represent the players, not themselves. it's turned into an arrogant chestpopping position, that resembles the likes of a corrupt city council board. they'll agree to push objectives in which they only agree with, and not what the community sees. turning eve into jade online, and thinking he has the power to shut up the people.surprise jade... you're just another one of us. the difference is, you get to speak for us, but you don't. you speak for yourself and your own selfish agenda. you fail us, you fail ccp, and you fail at your job."
"not too sure how you do it, but it is a good idea!"
"agreed"
"i'm all for removing insurance payouts when a criminal action has been incurred."
"okay. no.1st: do you know how silly fully insurable t2 ships is?if you don't get enough whinetards crapping bricks all over the place about older players having a pvp advantage, how are they going to respond to knowing losing a t2 fitted commandship costs them a fraction more than losing a bc. eve is a game of trade-offs. you risk more isk, you get more ship.2nd: the cheaper pvp is, the more people pvp and this is a problem why?3rd: high sec needs to be safer why? you have other games for the \"look at my shiny stuff that you can't have\" needs.do you really think that losing 22 mil rather than 1.2 mil for a gank brutix is going to stop somebody from killing a 800mil hauler? have you ever suicide ganked in a hotspot? things can go wrong, vultures will try their hardest to run off with your loot and you can only do it so long until you have to rat secruity status back up. its not an instant paycheck you make it out to be.do not fix what is not broken."
"this should happen."
"t2 not, caps yes. as for concord i gather you  or alt  gank for a living?"
"/signed for t2/faction ships"
"/signed for alllower t1, buff t2 and nothing for concord losses"
"eve-mails needs to be longer. every time i want to send one, it turns out to be a 5 page monster.i'd like a bigger bio as well, double the length should be nice."
"adding to the length i propose the font size option be added to evemails, like they'r epresent in bios, notes, and chat channels./signed"
"/signed"
"why not, everything is chance isnt it? you want goodies in every can?to answer the main part of the post as in token rewards how about a pile of dog turd?veiled whine about bnot being happy tbh"
"yes please. they all need more locking range imo."
"i can only sign this as the locking range on minmatar intys are way to low."
"aren't minmitar interceptors also the fastest? interceptors are already digusting. some of these get up to speeds that mean you need to web them twice before you can hit them. i fly a stealth bomber, my missles hit at 120 km and i can only target to 70 without a signal booster. should they increase my targetting range too?"
"materials for war preparation, as i'm sure many of you know, is one of the storyline missions you can get. what issue could possibly arise from one single mission? a couple, actually:1  it seems to be at least five times as common as every other storyline put together. i've gotten it at least six times in a row; one corpmate has an ongoing streak of 11. corp, agent, and mission level do not seem to make a difference in its frequency.2  its standings gains are pathetic. i believe a level two 'kill' storyline mission gives more faction standings than the level four version of materials for war preparation. you'd think with the war going on they'd value your efforts a little more.3  it usually requires you to buy your minerals. especially if you're caldari, since the level three ore  omber  only spawns in high-sec gravimetric sites and the level four ore  kernite  doesn't appear outside caldari low-sec. the mission's isk payout usually doesn't cover this cost, so if it weren't for the implant, you'd actually be losing money doing this mission.please, do something to bring this mission in line with its peers."
"i would agree to an extent. in terms of actually completing the mission this is exactly how i do it - i.e. buy the minerals, then hand them in. to be honest that does not bother me at all, so i just buy it and complete the mission asap.on the other it does not seem that the mission works to fill its purpose - my understanding is such that the mission was intended to induce more people into mining, if that is right then this mission in no way induces me into mining, but rather makes me to dislike mining very much. i think ccp should put some thought into it.supported"
"only ever had 1 kill mission storyline over 2 accounts, something other than buying mins at 2x market value would be a nice change =p"
"/..."
"accidentaly hit the enter button. delete this please."
"it'd be a fundamental change to the ship, and as such you'd change its slot layout to make it mid-heavy like the scimitar and oneiros, instead of high-heavy like the guardian. it'd take some work to make it function properly, but it seems fully doable.we already have the anti-nos ship, it's the guardian and the basilisk . my proposal would also add the anti-damp ship, in the new oneiros. the anti-paint ship would seem to be the curse and pilgrim - tracking disruptors counter painters as well as anything.caldari ships don't need cap for their primary weapon type, as opposed to amarrian ships that eat cap like it's going out of style. it seems reasonable to make their cap transfers less good. also, they get more utility highs on battleships than the other races caldari get 4, amarr 1, gallente 1, and minmatar 2 , which means they presumably have a bit more room for cap transfers on non-logistics ships than the other races do. that's not a big effect, of course, and normal cap transfers are nowhere near as good as guardian/basilisk cap transfers, but it does compensate a little. as for the doubling of sensor strength, it's effectively a free eccm fitted. if you want to dock it a mid slot compared to the 6-7 it would otherwise get, i'm not wholly opposed, but it's a bonus the ship needs if it wants to be an eccm boat. and given how big of a nerfbat i'm swinging on a ship that doesn't need it, i have no issue with giving it back a bonus or two along the way. similarly, the doubling of scan resolution is a couple free sensor boosters, but it's necessary for you to lock allies quickly and rsb them if the bonus is to have any meaning. also, i know you pointed the question at einstein, but given that b is my proposal, i'll answer it as well. yes, i fly an oneiros - not particularly well, since i just skilled into it recently, but i do fly it."
"problem is you are spreading roles around across different ship platforms. but in reality the situation might be from the fact that painters are the red headed step child of electronic warfare. tracking disruptors only counter turrets, and only in certain situations. assigning tracking disruptors as anti paint would be pre-nerfed with these changes if you are trying to assign every race a protection versus an ewar. and you follow the pattern of a race countering it's own race until you hit the anti-paint and you do it with a class of ship that's not even the one you are changing. it will be a hard pill for some to swallow.as for missiles being the caldari primary weapon: i would argue that every tech one caldari hull has an equal amount of missile and hybrid ships except for frigates which are almost balanced by the destroyer. you still end up with only one more missile hull, if you want to count a heron as a missile hull. it's just more popular and easier to skill for missiles. so i don't find the energy argument not compelling. even amarr got balanced with khanid ships to a degree. if pvp could make active tanks more viable then energy transfers might be more in vogue. 6-7? you are being generous. both the basilisk and onerios have 5 slots i thought. you want to put in a a built in module in a ship for the cost of that slot? why not just put the eccm in the mid slot then right then and take it out when you need it? and you have no bonus you can take away without it loosing effectiveness unless you take out the drone bonus. and you can't take out the drone bonus. think of the poor drones! they can not be neglected further. i see you are trying to be reasonable but it sounds like the thought came to your mind. personally i believe you would have better luck if you kept thinking or just use them as is. granted the projected eccm is unbonused range-wise so you have to deal with the range problems. it's not impossible to do on multiples of ships or even logistics. the basilisk is one of the logistics that can stay in close especially if you have two. but basilisk pilots and logistic pilots in general are more rare than other ship types. as a note i am a scimitar pilot."
"no, i don't really fly any logistics ship, although i have all the skills for a basilisk. i just dont see the point of flying them in pvp. i can see them in complexes or repairing pos structures and shields, just not in pvp.i think there is a major flaw in all logistics ship - they are designed for small gang warfare and at present time tanking doesn't matter very much there. considering that, another damage dealer or recon would be much more usefull instead of a ship that can only heal a couple of allies, requires much attention to fly and doesn't like being primary.the logistics role instead is taken by rr battleships, which are very usefull. imo that's how it should have been - heavy tanking healers  bc hull may be  with bonuses to cap and shield/armor transfer and agile electronic defence ships, providing sensor resolution/streangth/tracking boosting. with both types being capable damage dealers. they do after all have increased skill requirements.giving a second thought, rearranging bonuses on existing logistics imo is somewhat like galvanizing a dead horse. logistics ships need much love in general perspective."
"i do fly logistics, flew them on the tourney as well, i think projected stuff are quite okay. they are better than boost-yourself modules, and you are right that you need to use them in pairs at least to be effective, but logistic ships are all about teamwork anyways. furthermore, any ship can do the remote boosting, it doesnt need to be a logistic ship."
"actually, i forgot the two ships that directly counter target painters already - the claymore and the ragnarok. both minmatar, though obviously neither is a logistics ship. problem is that sig-lowering modules don't exist, except the one warfare link, so it's hard to put together a direct counter to their racial ewar. tracking links make the best module for the scimitar we're going to get. technically you're right, but in terms of what actually gets flown, the caldari might as well never have heard of railguns. and it's not that the caldari don't use cap at all, it's that they're a lot less needy than the amarr, and a lot less capacitor-focused as a result. they don't have the curse, pilgrim, sentinel, or avatar. i'm fine with them not having the guardian either. i'm not sure i'm being that generous when i say 6-7 mids. it's 6/5/2 as it stands, and moving the presumed 2 cap transfers to projected eccms means making 2 highs into 2 mids. it needs sensor strength to do its new job effectively, though, so imo it should just straight-up get it. as for what bonuses it'd get, 150% shield transport and remote eccm range and 20% drone shield transport effectiveness per level of caldari cruiser, and -15% shield transport cap use and +10% remote eccm effectiveness per level of logistics seems natural. similarly, the oneiros just replaces the words \"tracking link\" with \"remote sensor booster\". no need to nerf the drone bonus."
"i prefer to leave logistic ships as they are now and make electronic support ships a whole new role of its own. new t1 hulls, new t2 ships, both in frigate and cruiser sizes. make the counter-ewar racially separated as the ewar is currently and not all in one ships for greater diversity. this would also give room to boost currently sub-par ewar methods, like the sensor dampener for example, as effective counters will then exist."
"we all know caod is the biggest pile of **** on any forum anywhere but it's like a car crash, no matter how bad it is you just have to look. i know there is a no n00b corp/show your corp/alliance rule so you can post, but i'd like to suggest this.only the highest skill point char on an account can post in caod, also following the other rules as well. this, surely, would end a lot of the *******s posts made on there?"
"sorry, can't support. caod is like the scum filter in the pool. shut it down and the scum spreads out."
"i think if such \"priority proxies\" existed, that would mean that ccp is capable to do some kind of real time resource allocation. this would be great tbh. would solve all our problems with fleet lag etc. but they cant solve these problems. this suggests that they are unable to affect server performance when the lag has already hit in. therefore, there cant be priority proxies and stuff like that.... i think they would be very happy if they were able to do something like that, but their earlier dev blogs about the network architecture of eve suggest that such things can not really exist. i might be wrong of course. i wasn't there, did not check it. i just think that while the t20 problem was really something that could happen and happened, this priority thing is just some made-up urban legend."
"may i ask why? an afk cloak supporter? it's just within the confines of the complex that i'm talking about here, not in the whole system. you're not one those *****s who try to keep these plexes from the rest of eve...are you?"
"sorry i didn't see your reply when you made it. i agree with you; it probably should be 100% random. i say 50% of the time to allow the people that conquered the space that they have to still have that space as a valuable asset worth fighting over. especially now with the drone regions out, mining isn't as lucrative as it once was. so the regions with good belts, not so attractive now. good low trusec systems, npc space, and areas that are guaranteed to spawn a plex within six or seven systems are valuable assets. whether you agree or disagree with this argument, the fact remains that even a change to a 50% spawn rate in these constellations would represent a significant decrease in farming and an increase in the amount of regular explorers that could find and profit from this particular plex. 100% random would be better. but having seen how ccp thinks  and has programmed in the past  about pve, i'm not sure that would be a target worth shooting for."
"/supported"
"200,000 subscribers and sometimes more than 40,000 people online at the same time and 300 standing slots per person and corp and alliance.micromanaging this is a real pain. i do understand that it shouldn't be a huge number as closed corps/alliances need to be removed to stop them cloging up your database or something like that but i think 300 is unreasonably small.need moar.."
"no learn to use neuts."
"this is a horrible, horrible idea. dear god, i hope that was satire."
"change nos. i'd rather have it back to pre-nerf days than where its at now."
"if you're in a battleship, they usually do, in my experience."
"faction warp disruptors for everyone? or are you getting bubbled + rapiered? and then well yea you are probably going to die anyways."
"i use them on several of my ships. and would rather use them than a nos in most places.  the pre nerfed version that is, as current doesn't make much sense to use a nos at all "
"great idea."
"this."
"please remember to fit your t1 frigs with no scram, no web and lots of mods you had to borrow money off of people to afford and then waltz your 5 man nub gang into 15man t2 fitted gang some more.if you can afford to make those frigs cruisers and not bother fitting half of the mods you need as you don't have the skills for that, your enjoyment of fw will increase ten fold.fw is fine, sure its got no controls over the militia channel, so don't put any intel in there, form fleets with people you know/trust  not anyone thats near a gate  and its actually a lot more fun."
"oh and don't forget to tama-kazi your way into a heavily pirated / gate camped system frequently without any scout."
"go caldari...."
"i heard digital communists just take goofsc/d ?"
"your doing it wrong. your grammar is as ****ty as general starscream's btw."
"ok you have right you are a goof so but whats up with the other digital communists they are goofs too ?"
"since this thread has more views than the \"welcome to this section\" thread, i vote that it become a sticky.all in favour? all opposed?"
"man, one thing for sure, there will be more people  the people who bait jetcan miners  in your mission, stealing your wrecks if you give them aggro rights....i know i will do that as a part time thing =p a break from exploration sites =p"
"ooh - look at all the salvage thieves jumping in.the analogy is not flawed in the least. in zimbabwe your 'property' becomes ffa as soon as the government decides they don't like you.which is entirely legal - it's the law.none of which makes it ethical, or right. or, given the train wreck that it's made of their economy, even smart."
"ah, lovely insults. someone holds a different opinion and automatically it's time to toss epithets around.john maynard keynes once said, to a detractor who accused him of changing his position on something, \"why yes, i did say we shouldn't do that anymore whereas before i said i thought we should. when i find out i'm wrong about something i change my mind. what do you do?\"what 'dev's said' in the past does not affect the present, necessarily. eve changes all the time and there is quite a lot of support for the salvage system changing.maybe it will happen, maybe it won't. but if it does i guess you'll need to find another line of work or fit some guns on your 'salvage' ship."
"you're right. it could change. that would be quite the day, when, after so many mission runners come to the forums and complain that ninja gankers are now ruining their missions by entering, getting shot, and returning to blow them up.i'll be sure to direct them to my thread, and show them who to blame for it. those who make the decision to give salvage aggro might be able to handle the backlash, but nobody can guarantee that everybody can."
"i joined a corp and have been having a great time in low security space. if some new players don't enjoy the game because they haven't any patience then their leaving is no big loss. i manage to compete. not very well but getting blown up is half...ok, so a quarter maybe....of the fun. one of the best things about eve is that you can go anywhere you've got the b@lls to go and the other guy's got the right to kill you if you do.if a new player wants to play against others on a level playing field then he can go to the test server.-or-he can join a corp and learn in a group with mentors. -or-he can have patience."
"alright i understand where your coming from and i don't really have any arguments against that as that is your opinion about it but i must say i just don't see it that way"
"if going for only one single type gtc is the most beneficial for ccp in one way or the other, then they should have gone for the 30 day type only.obviously that would satisfy the needs of all players  just buy more gtcs if you want to charge the account for more than 30 days at the time "
"corp tools need a boost.now you can specify access to office divisions for  1  hq,  2  member home base and  3  all other offices.a more diverse way of managing access rights should be implemented.corp wallet and -finances should also be made more manageble. as should access to deliveries and market operations on behalf of the corp."
"eliminator2 is right.lag is the single most anoying flaw in eve-online.almost all existing features/activities in the game suffer from it regularily. and all future features/activities that are going to be inplemented in to the game will suffer from it.it is disturbing to see that more and more players actually seem to accept that large fleet battles are \"supposed to\" be laggy.i for one would like to see fcs, wcs & scs being able to plan and execute more intricate battle plans, tactics and stratergies without primarily having to consider the lag issue.as for lag city, well thats just your normal gredlock situation during rush hours. however it should be easier to pass around jita if you don't have any business in the system. by-pass jump gates should be implemented.--fly safe....and lag-free"
"/signed"
"this issue will be submitted to ccp : "
"could be tricky to implement, but its something we need.i have enough difficulty just trying to remember what everything was set at. can sometimes take hours to get it back to the way it was......."
"yes !"
"very good idea. its a most wanted feature  for me "
"i am a programmer, hear me roar.i independently came to the same conclusion as mashie salanda, and believe that 24 hours plus one more skill, or even 12 hours plus one more skill, is the perfect solution to this dilemma.so therefore, what we really need is: a queue of skills limited to 12 or 24 hours in length plus one more skill. the queue should allow for anywhere from 6 to 20 total skills to train. the limit for the number of skills should be something sufficient to train several small skills throughout the limited time period. the queue should not be disabled when a subscription is ended.this gives you the following benefits:at any time, regardless of what skills are available to train, it is possible to set a queue length of at least 24 hours.the system cannot be abused to powertrain unsubscribed characters. the only advantage this would give unsubscribed players is an additional 24 hours of skill training, and no more.essentially, the system described here answers all concerns and solves the problem simultaneously."
"10% instead of 2h and lower rank"
"/supported"
"personally, i'd like to see a switch to allow 2 jumps every 48 hours, rather than a marginal reduction in the 24 hour cycle.reducing the 24 hour thing slightly just leads to the same problem as 6-18 hour skills. most people play at certain times of the day, and waiting anything over 6 hours is effectively the same as 24 hours."
"or some variation to reduce jump clone timer. also something to allow redocking clones on clone vat bays and being able to remotely destroying clones off clone vat bays. i feel sorry for those who have a clone on a mom pilots mothership that barely logs in to allow them to use the clone."
"indeed"
"so we're making an arbitrary limit that anyone in a corp must be rich and have high corp standings with someone? what a good idea.... well in which case lets get rid of low-sec and high-sec, make it all 0.0 and let the big alliances run everything. after all, it's the big wide world. funny, people might just object to that...beats a post 'of fail' from a jarhead with no brain or ability to debate.funny, half the people defending the system as is are saying 'well i've never had any trouble because i'm rich and good at pvp' and can't manage to see beyond their nose that others starting out do have trouble. it's no small wonder that people don't enjoy socialising in a game when so many are anti-social."
"promise i'm not just plugging posts. i've reread this and a lot of you are in favor of a new system where you can break an alliance you hate or just mug an alliance who has something you want.limited capability mobile outposts. costly refugee conditions for empire retreat. pos-like system of vulnerability/operability/capability to move balanced against whether you're winning or losing the big-picture struggle.refugee status proposals:outpost is charged with a large fee of ~25-50% outpost cost. this is in the form of a loan to a special account that must be paid off before the outpost can be moved again.protection of concorde to the outpost only. cannot move ships or goods from the outpost while still in owning alliance. must use a free noobship to even undock if leaving the alliance, cannot move ships or goods from the outpost without paying a certain percentage of their value to the empire. customs fee. ~50% of item market value as a goal.a defeated alliance in retreat, upon successful defense of their mobile outpost during retreat, enters a state where they can reorganize and recuperate, but must pay a very heavy toll for this privilege and have very limited ability to function as a 0.0 power during this period. going back to 0.0 will be more feasible than abandoning the outpost. leaving corps will have to claim their assets or contribute to the rehabilitation before disbanding.loot from a destroyed mobile outpost should be very low if any at all to limit what can be gained from complete defeat to destroying an alliances core. if you want to move an enemy, you force them to move. if you want to annihilate an enemy, you don't let them escape and crush them. this way, it will be advantageous during casual transgressions for the winners to ransom the vessel heftily and advise them to not come back. a peace treaty style contract would be a very, very useful tool in creating necessary framework for this to actually happen.more details here. please contribute."
"a good point well made by the op."
"space whales ftw"
"much needed. *push buttan*"
"i'd certainly like more background info."
"yup. more of that sort of thing. how can i belittle them if i know nothing about them?"
"would be great, aye."
"i don't roleplay in eve, but i do enjoy reading the background material. i'd like to see this as well."
"i do roleplay in eve and i would like to see this ; "
"yep agreed. i'll bring it to the agenda for meeting 8  the one after this one ."
"in general more actual knowledge about the background of eve will be a benefit to the rp community.examplewhy are the achura even part of the caldari state in terms of background? it is a basic piece of information that is important to how achura play their characters and everyone is guessing at why."
"supported. while stories are nice, a bit of encyclopedia galactica would be nice, too."
"yeah, that's a problem."
"*is actually doing \"feeding the giant\" right now*it's not that bad, it gives you two hours to read the forums!"
"i agree on everything you said but you forget that there are ice mining mission as well.  they are not too bad but still averagely about fun as well that youtube video, *insert the local rat* and that it "
"i don't even know why there are mining missions.miners mine in belts, they don't do missions.mission runners don't mine.why are there missions for miners?i'm not supporting this, because i suggest outright removing them. they do not make sense, and are only an annoyance for mission runners."
"they only make no sense because you are thinking in artifical categories of players.i am a miner.i mine in beltsi mine in missions.i do missions.i do mining missions.i do not fit in any of your pathetic little categories and i don't have to.mining missions make perfect sense.they are given out by mining  and astrosurveying  agents.they are intended to cater exactly to miners.they allow miners to gather lps and standing without having to do combat missions or stay with the silly, boring and low yield courier missions  i bet you want those removed, too .the only thing not making sense with mining missions is your logic.stop posting."
"i can't decide if this was an attempt at trolling or criticism. my sarcasm meter must be broken today. so i present my criticism of your semi-confusing post.while i am not saying all miner are the same. you do seem to assume they are. *hint veldnought* while there are group of school thoughts granted, however not all of us want to mine in belt. i am not saying we should left belt *gasp* untouched, except there are reason to not mine belt due to pirate/market/wardec/etc...as for removing mining mission? may i ask have you ever tried paid a miner to do them? this way you don't have to deal with mining skill/ship etc... btw i think all kill mission should be removed from eve online just because they are annoyance for a miner. *sarcasm end* although we do not have mining storyline yet as it would require at least an overhaul of the current agent/storyline system.seriously although i stop doing kill mission *level 4 btw* as they were bit of hassle to deal with at least for me with the time i have available to eve online. *afk-dominx is not an option*mining mission are bottom line constant income just like actually mining ores except you get standing/lp where as with mining you do not get them.heh i agree with you, abrazzar. but i already wrote this so i might as well post them anyway."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.i meant combat missions. i didn't even know there is such thing as a mining mission agent, just that there were a chance for agents to give you a terrible mission."
"ive noticed both as well"
"very nice idea"
"it amazes me, ashen, that even when you are confronted with the numbers - which you obviously hadn't seen despite using them to 'prove' your point - you still refuse to accept that you are wrong. no, miners are not carebears by definition. carebear, in this case, means someone who has no like for pvp. just because someone mines does not mean they don't like pvp. i mine. i love pvp, so your assumption is already proved wrong.listen to yourself. you have been using this data in your own arguments to prove the point that those that don't like pvp are in the majority in eve. now when you actually get to read what the data says, you backtrack all over the place, trying to dismiss the data as flawed and inaccurate.i have considered all the gaps that are essential to my analasys. i cannot consider data which i don't have. for all i know, such data doesn't exist. if it does, it has not been presented to the players. with the data we have it is obvious that you where wrong. that is all that matters here. yes, most probably the alts are not combat alts. that is completely beside the point, however.then ****ing perform one yourself! you toted this data as proof of your argument. i proved you where wrong using the data. you obviously have never even read the data!my god...yes, and they have. do you want me to post a complete list of the trained groups of skills? ok:1. spaceship command2. gunnery3. missile launcher operations4. drones5. learning6. engineering7. electronics8. navigation9. science10. industry.those are the 10 most trained groups. the others are too small to read out accurately and weigh against each other. what the hell did you want this for anyway?no! nononono for ****'s sake... you cannot read that into the data. it's simply not there. based on the data, we know that more than half of eve's population regularly venture out of high sec. that is all that is important here! it proves that most people in eve aren't people who dislike pvp. it doesn't mean more than half of the population engages in pvp either. it just shows that more than half of the population are actively going into high risk areas and as such, accept pvp as a factor!continued..."
"no! you are refusing to accept what the data shows because it doesn't show what you want it to show. by definition, that makes you deluded. you are also whining about it, making you a whiner.they ****ing aren't! eve is a predominantly pvp game. are you going to argue that too? are you going to make me link you to the ****ing quote from ccp wrangler that clearly states that it is? i am getting so fed up with you right now. you spend hours arguing and claiming that the evidence proves your point. when you are shown that it doesn't, you start spewing nonsense and claiming the data is inaccurate. ****ing get a grip, man."
"why are you even arguing this ashen? the data shows u were wrong. kian might be an ass about it but hes right."
"so where does it show pvp combat is the main focus?those skills show a predominant focus in ships skills at the top, followed by the support and industry skills.gunnery and missile skills are trained on mission runners, which don't always mean combat pvp.nothing shows the mains as combat pvp oriented either.you claim the data to be ambiguous when used against you, and then scream it's hard facts when others poke holes in it when you use it.i have an industrial character, yet i have more skill points in spaceship command than anywhere. i even have a huge amount in the gunnery and missile skills... but for missions and not pvp combat.  though i have the skills trained to be useful there and i do know the fastest way to get the skills for a transport character is the various soldier starting paths, which means high weapon skills...so all those non-combat hauler alts are in there.and i know the quote, and i know they didn't say it was combat oriented pvp that they were focused on."
"the data is statistics, which can be manipulated as needed most times to show what you want.especially when as he admits he is not even cosnidering the gaps in it because it wouldn't help his argument.plus i'm bored."
"you know, i know i said you where stupid before. now i don't even need to say it. i'm done here.you were wrong. i was right. the empirical ccp endorsed data clearly show it.good night."
"at least he went to the effort to present some facts tbh."
"then why did u use it to back up ur arguments before? u cant just use something to back up ur arguments and then say its wrong when someone proves u wrong with the same data. if u r bored u shouldnt post here just to post. u r just makind the debate more hard to get into. i think that u really should think about accepting that u were wrong here and just move on."
"everyone in the game is involved in pvp, i'm asking for stats that show a bias towards player to player combat.instead you throw up statistics that have been used to show the opposite, and then claim they show your view.and i point out the flaws and you scream and pout. and outright admit they lack information that does apply, but refuse to consider because it might hurt your argument."
"my frickin' god..."
"i rather think you are the one who is a bit hot under the collar. as far as striking you? phuuleeze. unlike you, i haven't even been reduced to cursing.the only thing you've proven is how silly your arguments can be. you've quoted selections from the 4th quarter 2007 economic report  demograhics section, pages 4 through 5 , added in some numbers you've pulled out of the air  made up on your own  and come to an erroneous conclusion. i'm sure it looks very impressive to you, but it's complete rubbish. what was that you said about quoting people smarter than yourself to make yourself look smarter? oops. my mistake. you were talking about ashen and myself. hmmm. look up the word hypocrisy.where people get the 80% statistic is probably from the last two sentences in the summary of demographics for that report which state, \"most pilots arelocated in high security areas, or about 70% - 80% at any giventime. this number seems to be rather constant between q3 and q4of 2007, and it will be interesting to see if that changes in 2008.\" huh. what do you suppose they're doing in high sec?your allegation that if a person is in low sec to 0.0 they're not carebears regardless of their activity is.....words fail me.windjammerp.s. i'm almost certain all the above has nothing to do with this threads topic."
"u r just being immature about it now ashen."
"actually he posted assumptions and opinions based on statistics.my facts are: they are making the changes to cut down on grief style pvp combat, opened up faction warfare as an outlet for combat in high sec that makes pvp combat a choice  even offering npc corps to join... but as we can see they don't have the numbers of the regular npc corporations "
"i made a critical analysis of the data. the results are in my post. the argument i was trying to disprove was that the majority of the population don't like pvp. i think i managed to do that quite well.i dunno? logging off?carebear in this particular argument was defined as \"person who dislikes pvp\". i made the assumption that if you go to a high risk area you don't dislike pvp. you might not want to actively engage in it, but you are not trying to shield yourself from it either. in the context of the argument, it makes perfect sense.nor has anything you have written for the last million posts or so. i dunno how many it is really, i like to make up numbers, right?"
"nope, told him that till he shows something other than a whinge over changes to the game i'm not wasting much time with him.and all i see his him admitting to using flawed data sets, and saying that data that would prove/disprove his bias is irrelevant  which shows a fear of it being a disproving bit of data "
"yes but u said most people in eve dont like pvp. what kian did was to prove u wrong. he did. u just cant accept it. u r obviously a bit immature."
"they are not flawed. they are the data sets that you have been using to 'prove' your arguments. you just can't accept you have been proven wrong. i suppose it must hurt to be wrong as often as you are."
"key is combat oriented pvp, which the changes affect.the numbers in the statistics include: mission runners, hauler alts, etc that never engage another player in combat.the changes affect player vs player combat. that is the key, non-combat pvp is not being affected."
"so where does it show most players engage in player vs player combat and shoot at each other?"
"what r u talking about? u said that most people in eve dont likee to pvp. u where wrong."
"it doesn't. it doesn't have to. what it most clearly does not show is that most people in eve don't like pvp like you claimed it did!rofl, you are so dense it's almost not funny anymore. almost."
"u shouldnt go around saying people r dumb either. its rude. he was wrong. dont be an ass about it."
"tsk tsk: my statement has always been they don't like the player to player combat.key word you want to drop: combatso yes it has to show it.because all your whinging is about changes to combat between players."
"nope my stance has always been ship to ship pvp combat is not the focus of most of eve's player base.there is no action that is not player vs player conflict."
"no!the argument you put forth was that most of eve's population does not like pvp. combat or not, doesn't matter, but let's say you said combat pvp just for the hell of it.the data shows that more than half of eve's population regularly move about in high risk areas, meaning they willingly accept the risk of pvp. they don't shelter themselves in high sec like you claimed.the data shows that of those that remain in high sec, a large proportion are new players and alts. not hard core carebears who don't like pvp like you claimed.this will be my last response to you. talking to you is like having a conversation with a brick wall. actually, i think a brick wall would offer more intelligent observations than you do. good night, little angel. i hope you don't drown in your own drool.@mozetta: i am so ****ing tired of arguing with this guy i feel no sympathy for your \"no insults\" crap. sorry."
"yeah so u meant combat pvp. kian still showed you were wrong."
"ok but its not fun reading swear words and insults on these forums. they should be for discussion."
"your analysis of the data is flawed. you polluted the numbers you quoted from the report with assumption, speculation and additional numbers you manufactured on the spot. that technique is not usually lauded as critical analysis.all this to prove something that is inherently and intuitively obvious. a lot of people in eve like to shoot at other people for one reason or the other at least some of the time. that's a lot of work you did to try and prove something that didn't require proof and in the process further damage your credibility. well done.windjammer"
"using just raw data without any conjecture or reasonable assumption, the data still shows that less than half of eve's characters only reside in high sec. that was all that was needed to win the argument.i wish you would tell that ashen idiot that. my argument was with him. not you.edit: also, my credibility was never in question by anyone but ashen and maybe you. to be honest, i really don't give a crap what you think of me. i think you're both idiots. i'd expect the same courtesy."
"actually no he showed people would leave empire, but 49% stay in empire.his assumption is that none of those leaving empire did so for reasons other than to shoot at each other."
"no u r twisting what he said. what he said was that if 51% of the characters willingly enter risky areas that means they are not anti-pvp. it is pretty easy to understand. it is also easy to understand that of the people who dont enter risky areas a lot of them are alts and newbs. again u where wrong. just accept it. be the bigger man."
"it means they take the risk, for profit or for combat is not known.i have a few trade routes that take me into or through low sec. and several others do as well, we accept a higher risk for a shorter time or greater profit."
"sorry, mozetta, but that's just a bit off. the economic report was tracking movement of characters which it assumed were main characters. check this quote out: \"the characters that are not accessed or do not move between systems are most likely alternate characters for subscribers. we therefore assume that these jumps show us the movement of main characters on each subscription account and are therefore representative for the movement of the main population in eve.\" 4th paragraph of page 4  and \"49% of all pilots moved only within high security areas  high-sec \" 1st paragraph of page 5 .that means that the 49% they're talking about who never leave high sec are assumed by the report to be main characters. like i've said before, ki an's analysis is flawed. it contains erroneous interpretations and some of the numbers he just made up. the conclusion of such an analysis has almost no hope of being accurate in any way.windjammerp.s. here's the url of the report if you want to check it out for yourself."
"don't trust any statistics you haven't manipulated yourself i guess. suffice to say that i move through lowsec plenty, currently live in 0.0, yet do not want the pvp threat to be too prevalent in highsec. because i realize a lot of people play a game not for kicks or to vent frustrations, but to relax. and that is exactly why i myself go back to highseccing from time to time, because that is the best way to play if you simply want to relax. so your great statistic would count me on the wrong side, and i am fairly certain that a lot of other characters play in a similar manner. and not counting 0.0 miners into the carebear crowd gotta be the greatest joke ever. i find most 0.0 miners to be way worse carebears than your average cnr highsec missionrunner."
"i've read most of this thread and still this response is the best."
"linkage - use right click save as , vs loading in your browser  much faster and:there are five industrial/mining ships on the top ten list, further supporting evidence from the last qen that at any given time, a substantial portion of characters are involved in mining/trading and manufacturing rather than mission running or pvp operations."
"ashen, ever hear of the phrase: what you don't do, won't hurt you. ?this applies here. if the nerf to insurance goes through you will see people quit the game. while if it is left alone you will see the subscription trend continue  up . instead of finding ways of nerfing a valid way of playing, how about you focus on increasing options for the victim, that makes the game more interesting, and perhaps more fun. tradable killrights is such one idea, it allows you to pass off a kill right to someone  persumably you can sell this kill right for isk, lessening the isk blow of losing a ship  which increases the pvp options in the game. another option is to add a new type of contract called a defense contract. a defense contract is this, a player can set in the contract how long it is and the payout assuming the contract issuer does not die. in addition to a penalty if the contract issuer dies to hostile player action  not npc's/concord/self destruct . this would be adding a mechanic to the game that allows a carebear to pay a pvper for active protection, where the pvper could end up paying for your loss if he fails. another idea would be to introduce modules that would actually transfer a % of your shields to the target ship, instead of healing the target ship sheilds for x amount. so you lose shield as the target ship gains shield. obviously this module would increase the targets shield much faster than current shield transferers, but would stop working once you are out of shields yourself, it would also be expensive on the capacitor, more so than current shield transferers. this would be one step on making it possible for players to escort ships through highsec by allowing them to begin to counter the dps of the attacking ships. instead of focusing on making one profession's life harder, find ideas that introduce new ones and new ways to play the game. this type of thinking is what expands a game, and moves it forward. a nerfing mindset only makes people angry, one group at a time till you are left with only like minded individuals and declining subscription numbers. i'm not saying in some cases a nerf isn't valid, but in this case a nerf is definatly not needed."
"1 - the insurance change is not going to equal the profit potential. it dents it. replacing a 130mil ship out of the loot spread from a scanned ships still makes it profitable. it makes them work for the return  in time, cost and risk those that do it for kicks wills till do it for kicks, those operating to hurt logistics will still do  the equation there is your loss < target loss then it is a good hit it's a raise in the cost of doing business.thing is, right now more and more are not bothering to do anything but click target and attack. suicide attacks will still be viable, just not as profitable unless you pick targets.all those are also options that ccp has decided to look into because they determined the balance was out of whack.and kinda hard to argue which causes more loss users, an imbalance in favor of people that can target and destroy ships as they undock without bothering to scan for cargo because they have minimal losses compared to the target. or making them plan and scan to get the juicy targets?"
"ok i read it. nowhere does it claim that the carebears are in the majority. it doesnt claim that their in the minority either. i guess that both sides of the argument can stop using that report as back up for their arguments as it doesnt really support any of the arguments in this thread. kian did an analysis which you think is wrong. i dont really agree with the entire analysis either but i think he has a point when he sais it cant be used to show carebears are in the majority like ashen said."
"debatable: the three top ships are caldari missile boats. and quite common for mission runners, and only the raven being considered by most to be a pvp combat ship  the frigate and cruiser can be used for it, though most seem to sneer at missiles caldari also has the largest player population.till they can break down the mission runners from the combat players there will be a question there.but more telling was the fact mining and industrial ships were also in the the top numbers, versus other racial combat ships finishing out the top slots.the snapshots also showed most operated predominantly in high sec space  with a portion entering low sec , the 'safe' areas of eve.  with consideration for travel through low sec "
"sigh, is this still going on?"
"yes but it was a snapshot. it was not a complete summary of the most flewn ships. it really doesnt say that most people in the game dont like pvp. ashen it just doesnt. i think its time to drop this line of reasoning now because that document dont support either argument. i think it would be much better to dicuss how we can improve the game because that is waht this discussion should be about. if ccp nerfs suicide ganking they do it because they think it will be best for the game. but i would hate for this game to turn into a pve based game because there are so much better pve based games out there. eve should be pvp based. its the only way it can compete. turn it into pve based and it will die. i am a miner who dont do pvp but i love the fact that people can fly up and gank me at any time. it keeps me on my toes."
"probably one of the reasons why the study found that at any given time around 80% of eve players are in high sec.windjammer"
"characters, not players.now who is twisting?"
"i like a lot of what you have to say here. in general i oppose nerfing for the for the very reasons you've outlined. i'm also a fan of tradable kill rights and i'm a big fan of making positive changes instead of nerfing. however, the assertion is that suicide ganking is too easy under current conditions and the most reasonable balance is to make the planned changes. the suicider can commit the crime and recover from it too easily in terms of economy and sec status. this in effect makes high security status of the high sec solar systems a joke.no place in eve should be safe, but no place in eve should be so unsafe as to make the mechanics of protection a joke. that's the bottom line for the planned changes which will affect suicide ganking.while you may find some people quitting because of the changes, you'll also see people stay because of the changes. let's face it. that happens with any change in the game. the question is how many people. the changes will not eliminate suicide ganking. what the changes are intended to do is cut down on frivolous ganking and/or suicide ganking done for the sole purpose of griefing. suicide ganking of billion isk haulers/freightors, mission running ships fitted with 1 or 2 billion isk shield boosters, etc.? the frequency of those suicide ganks will not be touched. that means not too many people are going to be leaving. certainly the the subscription trend won't be affected. now if you were to do something like force people out of npc corps against their will........well.......you'd see a big change in the subscription numbers.regards,windjammer"
"i agree.windjammer"
"since the report assumed the characters were the main characters of each account, what's the difference between saying they're characters and saying they're players? i'm not trying to twist anything.windjammer"
"oh? how so? i am fairly sure that no suicider would quit the game. those who do it as side business  the main target of the nerf  will find other means to cause grief just like they did before suiciding became to popular. those who do it professionally can still do it professionally, even if the profit margins are more limited now.and if you are referring to n00bs making mistakes, the proposal is to only remove insurance if you appear on a killmail related to your concordokken, so mistakes in missions or hotrunning modules in highsec would still pay out insurance  unless the n00b actually kills his buddy which is fairly unlikely and if it happens he really had it coming anyway ."
"lulz @ all the suicide ganks getting emo rage about ccp taking away thier \"you isk is now my isk at no cost to me\" button and talking about quiting the game.p.s. - can i have your stuff?"
"now if only each vote was multiplied by the number of users each of the respective applications/sites have :- "
"signed."
"agreed pilgrim needs a boost-imho give it another powergrid bonus to make fitting a mwd an option without gimping the tank or -1 lowslot, +1 midthe ship itself doesn't need tampering with its boni- just a little more love with fitting  i have recon 5 "
"but not any of the op fixes"
"this ^ and pilgrims never used to fit mwds, they aren't essential on this ship, just like they aren't on a falcon.more fitting/more cap/better cap recharge/another low or midslot would be sweet edit: failed at supporting...."
"had finally found a ship i liked..only to see it borked to hell and back."
"i support increasing the usefulness of the pilgrim.maybe instead of it getting a nos amount bonus it could get a bonus on the relative cap amounts percentages, so that it can suck cap even when it has more cap than the target ship. *shrugs*"
"perhaps slow down hac some, boost their hpwill not argue that tech 2 cruisers got shafted in the hp boost, big time"
"/agree i'd like to see cerb boosted"
"more importantly towards what lucai said, even if hac's where aligned up hp wise the reason to fly the ship is mobility. note that the immobile hac's are very unpopular, and not just because they can't speed tank. the cerb is still \"slow\", but its enough faster than a drake that it is worth getting."
"i still disagree.in a nutshell you are saying that slower ships are tougher - which is generally true - and therefore, because hacs are a bit weaker than a battlecruiser they should make up for it by being insanely fast, rather than just a bit faster, which they are.your arguement is illogical.a t1 cruiser is no match for a t1 battlecruiser, but a t2 cruiser should beat it? is that you arguement?should a t2 frigate also be able to kill a t1 battlecruiser, or a battleship, or a carrier?i really don't understand exactly the basis for your arguement. you are comparing t1 apples to t2 oranges."
"you are missing the point, by far.what you say is a t1 bc should beat a t2 cruiser, so all a t2 cruiser is for is to a  kill t1 cruisers and b  die to t1 bcs and bssyou may think this is logical, but why should anyone fly uninsurable 80m t2 cruisers then?its not comparing apples and oranges, because t1 and t2 are both normal substitutable options for players. \"t2\" alone doesnt do anything. what should make them oranges? if you want medium sized tank+dps your options are cruisers, hacs and bcs, and people of course compare them and do decide between these.its exactly the problem of the assault frigs. it may appear to be logical, but it kills the ship class for pvp. you would have a pretty much useless shiny toy, and gameplay would gain nothing from hacs, ccp could as well remove them.t2 ships are there, from a gameplay perspective, to provide variety, and not \"the same thing as t1, but with a niftier model\". a weak bc that is a little bit faster provides nothing."
"i'm not missing your point, i just don't agree.t2 ships should be better than their t1 counterparts, of perform a role that their t1 versions can not - i do not think that a t2 ship should pwn any other t1 ship just because it is more expensive.ship progression should be by hull type, with t2 versions balanced within that.i understand your arguement exactly, i just think it is flawed."
"sac was part of the amarr boost, cerb is a good ship, op just wants to use it differently."
"tl;dr.cerberus needs a fix whatever the suggestion is. and don't nerf the sac."
"cerberus isn't really a good ship.. load javelin hams and a sacrilege is just as good as what the cerberus is supposed to be better at.. that gives the sac about 85km of range, about the same speed as the cerberus when you take velocity reduction into account, and all of the other advantages of the sac over the cerberus  which are plentiful .i am not asking for the cerberus to be a close range powerhouse by any means. though i think a ham setup should be much more viable than it is now. point of this thread is the cerberus has some really crappy bonuses  flight time/kinetic dmg bonus only  and huge fitting issues while on the other hand the sacrilege seems to have about 200 cpu to spare on just about every setup i try and enough grid to fit a kitchen sink, a pony, and everything else thats needed. you honestly have to try pretty hard to make a sacrilege fitting that doesn't fit, the ship just has a lot of breathing room..to make things more clear just look at it this way.sacrilege has 50 less cpu and 500 more grid than the cerberus with engineering level 5. most sacrilege setups barely break 300 cpu and are fairly cushy on grid. fitting a cerberus is so very much much harder, why?"
"we agree to disagree then your opinion seems to be that hacs being a bit better than the corresponding t1 hulls would be fine, and they then need no \"special\" roles, as this is what recons, hics and so are for, while hacs should simply provide a bit more tank and dps.my opinion is that just being a little better than its corresponding t1 hull does not suffice as a role for hacs, cause you will then have the assault ship situation where you have one class being pretty much useless. everyone knows assault ships need a change because the \"just a bit more tank and damage\" does not work for pvp, as you can just use the next bigger class of hulls instead, making them useless.logically seen, you may be right, heavy assault ships = cruisers with a bit more tank and damage, but then they will be more or less useless for pvp.having a ship class that is \"logical\", but not used, is in my opinion a total waste, thats where my arguing comes from. and as nearly everyone agrees that assault ships need a change and some role, taking one current hac role away and putting them on one level with assault ships without providing alternatives is a tad counterproductive.basically its not comparing apples and oranges, cause t1 bcs are a valid substitute for tanked hacs, and outperform them generally.but thats not the point of this thread, there are probably enough nano threads around, so ill stop here."
"most of my sac fits normally use >400 cpu and fully utilize the powergrid . and the cerberus is as easy to fit as a sacrilege as long as you dont fit hams.the sacrilege is essentially a one-trick ship, and that is close range dps. to even get into mid-range at all you need to train ham v which is not really of any use for any other ships. still then its only mid-range, no chance to use it long range.the cerberus is more flexible, you can operate at extreme ranges  >200km  or you can operate in mid-range with high dps.at long range there is no other hac that can rival it, and at mid-range its definetely servicable and on par.what you rightly complain about, i think, is the viability to use it close range, in tackling range. but you can use it close up, you just dont rival dedicated short range ships  which you shouldnt, as you have a lot more choices .the question is, does the cerb need to be competetive there? and if yes, where should it lose proficiency instead.you mention the \"useless\" flight time bonus. there are lots of people using the cerb just for that bonus, being immune to damage and ewar while lobbing missiles. some would prefer to have a double missile speed bonus i guess, but a double range bonus is what many people use the cerberus for.just that it doesnt seem to suit your playstyle does not mean its useless.if you want a short range, potentially solo, missile boat, train for the sacrilege . the cerberus is long range, meant for long range, and used and appreciated for being long range.and the problem with the cerb and hams is that with that range boni, your ham range is far beyond what you normally get with hams. because of that it seems logical that hams are hard to fit, as you dont get the normal drawback, being range, for using them.p.s.: the kinetic only damage bonus on caldari ships is a general caldari thing btw, so its not like one would or should change it on the cerb only. so thats a different issue."
"cerberus needs more fitting to be more competitive. i don't fancy the comparison to sac though. sac is a closerange boat and should be better at that game."
"cerberus is not as easy to fit, not at all. dual lse, med nos, mwd, even a possible med rep + hams all fit on a sac, even with just heavy launchers, the cerberus has a much tougher time, the 6th high slot on the cerberus is basically unusable.if you are going to fight at 200km load up on sensor boosters and sling heavy missiles you might as well be in a raven.. i don't think 200km fighting is what the cerberus was designed for.. it's just a raven that dies faster, sweet?i'd gladly give up 50km of heavy missile range for more useful mid-range abilities.an uninsurable raven with less hp and dps? sign me up.kinetic only is a caldari wide stupid bonus and should be changed. cerberus should be at least acceptable with hams, the sac is basically an overpowered ship if you ask me, so i won't ask ccp to make it as good as the sac considering then the cerberus would be overpowered as well.i would find double velocity better than flight time, at least then it would be more viable at long range, even if it's just a watered down raven.. something tells me you fly sacs.... "
"/me laughs heartily.yeah, i do.i like fighting at close ranges.thats why i trained for sacrileges*, why dont you do that?  * i was caldari specced before going for the curse  good old times  and then the sacrilege jokes aside, the cerberus has 2 range boni, so its natural to assume its not supposed to be a close range ganking boat.what you essentially want is to change the cerberus to fit your playstyle, instead of changing your playstyle to fit the ship, or training for a ship that fits your playstyle.but i do admit the cerb could maybe use some fine-tuning for mid-range usage, i.e. regarding its speed."
"not supportedbut on that same train of thought why not go the other way? part onesome of the reasons we don't have new toons starting with more then 800k sp's are the fact that accounts can have 'alts' which can be started at any time and give players an advantage. many ppl see the skill paths to get 'cyno alts, trade alts, manufacturing alts, scout alts, research alts and so on' make accounts have 'mains' and secondary toons. secondary toons start with the 800k we have now and nothing changes. mains start with the learnings to 4/3 and the 800k. only one account can have a 'main'.this should stop some of ccp's concerns with ppl starting new accounts just to get quick and dirty advantages. it would also allow new players to get into it right away. but still leave off that 4th level of advanced learning for them to decide if they want or not.part twoinstead of getting rid of learnings after this first part, why not expand them? add another set of learnings into the mix where everyone would be able to reduce the training times a bit further. this would allow everyone to train a bit faster and in the story line sort of way the governments and corps would probably want to be able to produce deadlier pilots faster anyway. so we'd have basic learnings, advanced learnings and maybe, complicated learnings? add to that advanced learning skill and genius learning skill  upgraded versions of the learning skill . this would allow some newer players to quickly get into the skills needed for the better items. the vets already are in them, so they could maybe cross train or find other ways to enjoy the new skills.part threenew players or newbies/n00bs are indeed stuck behind a wall and a hard spot in a way. they have to learn the game and try to 'catch-up' to the rest of us that have in some instances been around since beta. how is this possible? why not introduce a new player corp implant set this set would only be available in the starter corp. the first set would come after the completion of maybe a multi-step story line mission series that could explain alot about eve that is hard to make players learn currently. this would work like a halo set upon a new players learnings. so the set would give maybe +3 or +4 to each stat, but the entire set would give a 15% to 25% bonus to the entire set as well as the cumulative stats of the player. so a player with say 17 will, and the +3 in would have 20 willpower. the set would give 25% bonus making that a 25 but only as long as they stay in the starter corp.it could get more complicated with learning, advanced and complicated learnings of course. but it would give players a quick way to catch up, not harm the 'vets', bring in new players yet still force them to learn patience and the game, thus 'fps morons' as one player put it would be put off anyway. part four*this one would be more case by case basis. but maybe general category skill reducing skills. like say \"electronics learn\" each level would reduce all skill training times in the electronics tab by .5% to 1%. this would let some people try to specialize further, or make up for a bad choice in their character creation. it is an investment skill to be sure, but might let some of the younger players catch up.end.i'm one of those weirdo's who maxed out the learnings knowing they were going to take 3 years to pay off. eve is a game of patience and planning. i'm not sure taking out learnings would keep eve in the niche it fills. new mmo players go to wow, medium/casual mmo players go to conan, freaky mmo player go to hello kitty adventure island, and experienced mmo players gravitate to eve.hope this helped, tried to take the stance of 'keeping it fair for the most ppl possible' compared to the suggestions i've seen so far."
"i have mixed feelings about this. in the end i do not support this at all. it is a 'choice' to train those, not a 'requirement' like everyone says they are."
"if you wish to do away with learning skills why not do away with attribute implants as well, after all they give a training time advantage to players who have the isk to buy them or the time to spare running missions for the lp,s to obtain them. the current learning skills do not really affect the length of time players take to get into cruisers from frigs ect as some make out, it depends upon how wisely a player trains his character. a new player can get to level 3 missions and running them successfully solo in about a week, and still train thier learning skills."
"agree, i hated spending the few weeks to train up my learning skills as i wasn't really advancing at all. people mention the ability to specialize your character more, but 90% of players will just train to 4/4 or 5/4 across the board anyways  with the possible exception of charisma . i am in big support of a re-evaluation of learning skills, with my preferred solution being a removal of the skills with a sp reimbursement."
"super capitals already have massive disadvantages and if youre sitting near a lone titan with a gang and you cant get it your doing something wrong you it dd's and then recloaks but there is definitely still ways to get it especially since they are huge and not that hard to missa titan cloaked would do what 4ms?yeah i believe cloaks should be nerfed but to say said ship class shouldnt have them at all is just flat out ridiculous its like a care bear saying how pvp should be done. because you probably dont own one and realize how much of a pain in the ass they actually are already , so much has been done to super capitals in the past few patch's / expansion packs that well have made them near useless already why would someone pay 14 bil for a ship that has a small ammount more hanger space , cant be webbed or jammed and 5 more fighters ?"
"minmatar interceptors isnt even close to being the fastest.and on your stealthbomber you have the mids to spare to get better locking range while the claw only have 2 mids"
"it's called sensor booster/signal amplifier."
"claw has 2 midslots. where exactly does the disruptor go with mwd+sb?sig amp raises lock range to approx 25.5km. barely useful for a 24km disruptor."
"faction crysatls have a fraction of damgae even if you never shoot them, so you cannot cotnract it. can contracting or rmote repackage of amarr ships with crystaks be fxed pls."
"this mission is an abomination."
"needs to be turned into a mining mission  one of them \"not marketable\" ores "
"if the mission isn't worth it you could refuse it. i do agree that this mission could use a review or we need more storyline missions so this mission comes up less often."
"problem is, this mission is a storyline, not a regular mission. if you refuse it, you lose standing - it's not like a regular mission where you get the one-time in 4 hours refusal option. and faction standing is a bugger to get up if you lose it in chunks.usually with these, i look out for the relevant roids in the regular missions  e.g. the 2 part against the slavers level 3 has 8 50k unit omber roids  and mine them, then just store the ore at the storyline station. when i get this travesty of a storyline mission i just either shuttle or pod it over, complete the mission, and fly back.there are definitely more interesting and involving missions that could be done requiring you to actually mine something at the time. agree with the above quoted post that we need more storylines though - there only seem to be like half a dozen at each level."
"this mission is boring and crap. either it needs a serious update or a simple removal."
"as its so easy surely you won't mind sharing this insight with us?in 'a couple more seconds' you have no time to warp anywhere...so in the situation where you have multiple pos, belts, and moons on scanner - potentially even in the same 5 degree - how do you do this?"
"learn to directional scanlearn to directional scanlearn to directional scanlearn to directional scan"
"imo, you have these...0012 minimum size of hud elements0009 alliances and factional warfare0001 skill queue0016 switching all ammo at the same time...way too low."
"re-voted in the csm, this time it was approved by 8-1 and will be escalated to formal discussion with ccp on the balance issue. text of the discussion can be viewed nh discussion 16:41 +all the best."
"<3 jade."
"many thanks to you. jade. your willingness to be tenacious regarding this issue is very, very much appreciated. i've put a lot of work into this thread. the first time it was shot down i was honestly shocked  and appalled . to see the csm make a 180 is great news.however, i would like to point something out that worries me. the text of the meeting essentially shows several csms saying that they finally messed with the ship in eft and now understand the issue. why in the freaking hell did those same csms not bother to take 2 minutes out to familiarize themselves with the nighthawk in eft last time?!? it's amazing to see csms vote no on an issue that very well might not have gotten another chance, only to find out that they simply didn't do a little homework the first time around. granted, i'm very thankful for their willingness to do so this time. however, it's discouraging to see some csms so unwilling to do a little work after myself and others busted our humps for months on this thread.hopefully they've learned their lesson. i personally pay very close attention to these issues, and will be voting for those in the csm that are willing to do a bit of homework to avoid ignorantly voting on issues that others consider important.i wonder if dianeces/mila prestoc/and his other alts will come check this very important thread this time around. again, many thanks to you, jade. i'm glad i voted for you, and will be doing so again."
"i totally agree."
"i<U+FFFD>m in for it... totaly agree!"
"yes. this sounds so useful, we definitely need it."
"this issue was discussed, and recieved enough support to end up on the 'to ccp' pile."
"thank you for the 'fun idea' compliment. i have not taken the time to create a 'tech tree' for this type of project but i think that the coolest way to implement this would be along the story lines of well the most dangerous industries are very regulated on core worlds and pilots are not trusted with them, but things like cattle ranching could be done where ever the planet resources would support the work. maybe, ice or gas worlds are probably not so hot for cattle ranching, but volcanic worlds may be good for uranium mining or robotic parts factories, and raising exotic dancers on any of the above worlds would be impossible. i would imagine that this would incorporate physical limitations of world, some degree of npc regulation that effects positioning some industries, and a degree of space available per world  based on npc populations, land mass, suitability, and resources available . i think that the easiest set up method would be bpos for the industry components, mining equipment vs fence pickets and bpo price varies based on the complexity of the components etc. then the system is geared to make the pilot 10% return per unit vs what the npc market is buying for, then another 10%-20% risk premium that is effected by pilot skills associated with those aspects of corporate management. i do not think that the npc supplies or demands should go away, actually an increase to the npc fuel demands that empire can not maintain, then station demands reach a critical mass pilots can choose to supply the empire mega corporations. this would encourage pilot participation economically via reward, while not totally upsetting the current pos networks that many have spent years building. lots to think about."
"i like this idea. needs lots of discussion, but could solve the pos fuel problems.plus add some interesting new options to work with."
"people have a right to play this game anyway they want! fw is a great addition to eve & if they want to organize, let them! f**k*ff & stop criticizing!"
"all be it i have only really been into exploration pretty heavy for last 6-8 months in eve. one thing that i kinda feel though is that people those involved in 'exploration' and it's related activities are kinda treated as 'red headed stepchildren with a stutter' that no one really wants to embrace... cept when we put plex mods on the contract system maybe.now there was all that talk awhile back in the dev blogs talking about changes to exploration added content blah blah that well, i'm not holding my breath to see, i have enough diversity in my eve path not to be too upset about it, i do however feel that solo players are really getting the short end of the stick in eve and most likely will continue.and yes i know blah blah blah eve is supposed to be a 'group' circle jerk or whatever, for some players proper group work just isn't a possibility, my schedule varies too much to really roll with a proper corp....but i also don't play solo all the time. exploration is one of the kinda 'true' solo activities i can do at a given time as well as mining but man can not exist on roids alone. and trade and manufacturing same thing. exploration offers some decent content possibilities if properly thought out. lack of any real options in ship choice for a solo player...alts not being counted is kinda lame. not everyone is willing to throw down on multiple accounts, and i soon may be another when one of my secondary accounts expires.you have to admit that exploration as a career path really has probably the least amount of choice in ship choice, and this is really rather lucrative career path if done properly. just kinda suprises me, not ranting i'm used to the things in eve i don't like but work around but in all honesty there could be some things done to make exploration better...if nothing else work towards perhaps some mod changes and make the 'virtue' set a bit more applicable or at least accessable from other agents than soe. than maybe other ships could be more suited for all around exploration use.just my 2 isk worth."
"thisand if you really want to spend billions on a hg slaves then train amarr/gallente caps. . .srsly this is not an issue. shield tanks are fine - almost too good actually."
"csm meeting 7 chatlog is viewable here1. the crane needs a powergrid increase - escalation approved 2. nighthawk is terrible - needs a powergrid increase - escalation approved 3. improved wardec support functionality in fw - escalation denied4. rigged ships into cargo - please allow this - escalation approved 5. dynamic agent qualities - escalation approved 6. fw impact on eve storyline - escalation approved 7. local chat as intel tool - escalation denied 8. un-nerf the bio lengh! - escalation approved 9. gallente ewar ships need a boost - escalation approved"
"let me get this straight.dynamic agents, fw storyline, and the especially bio length is considered by you-the csm-to be of the utmost importance.and yet the stupidity of local as an intel tool is not worthy. too hot a potato for you guys? not even a hint of improved scanner functionality perhaps leading to a replacement \"intel tool\" for the lazy pilots that can't be asked to learn how to use the scanner? aside from giving gallente recons the love they deserve-or at least \"escalating\"  whatever the hell that means ...allow me to present you a golf clap for ignoring real items of interest for those who actually play eve as opposed to yapping about it.exactly how much longer do eve pilots have to put up with you and the majority of your fellow csm reps catering to your own individual agenda's and preferences?it's time's like this where i seriously contemplate paying for my game via isk-for-gtc as opposed to my current sub via cc. at least i wouldn't be subsidizing stupid free trips to iceland on my friggin dime .**edit**by all means continue to ignore threads like:"
"how about you go read the actual chatlog and see who voted which way on those issues before accusing people of being a \"waste of space.\" ?for the record i consider the local chat removal to be a very important issue and i was very disappointed that the csm chose to vote it down today. end of the day though i have one vote from 9 and i'm not going to get my way on every issue.i suggest you discover which csm's voted against and send them eve-mails in-game  or call them out on the forums or whatever  and suggest they change their minds."
"hey bone. calm down. we are hardly 3 months into csm and every meeting has been pretty packed so far. i had actually planned to take up the pilgrim, for ccp to revise, just like the council voted for ccp to take a look on the bonus for the arazu/lachesis. but rl health made me incapable of actually getting the job done for friday, which was the deadline.so the issue will be brought up. but for now, just wait.in regards to the local changes, you of course know why this issue wasn't supported for escalation, because you read the chatlogs, right?the vote would have passed with a few changes to the submission document. so you can be pretty sure it will be brought up again.but how do you make the assumption, that because it was voted for by the council, something is much more important than something else? mind you, we have not yet made a priority list based on these new things yet. and the local chat as an intel tool issue was no escalated because of the submission template needing tweaking.oh, and next time: please, please stop all those strawmen argument. it could easily be seen as a troll."
"the pheonix is fine. . .citadel torps are not.fix the wepon, not the ship"
"its a brilliant idea. while ccp is devoting resources to station interiors and things that dont affect our space ships they should have been implementing this idea. its awesome."
"after pounding eft fits for an ungodly amount of time, the naglfar has two main problems.1  dps needs to be more affected by damage mods.-- there are various ways for doing this, but the initial design of the naglfar seems to be \"it can do many things.\" split weapon systems, horrendous training times aside, offer us a unique way to do this. we can 3x + 2x damage mod our separate weapon systems: something no other race can do. however, when we *do* this... our total dps should more accurately reflect the sacrifice. if we completely fail-fit our tank in order to dps-fit  the mutual exclusivities as they stand now , then we should be rewarded with more than third-place dps  *especially* considering the revelation and moros both field much better tanks while doing superior dps .2  cpu fit is too tight.-- it's understandable to have tight fittings on a minmatar ship. really: we've gotten used to it. however, when we're sacrificing whole slots and requiring faction mods in order to fit-for-dps, that 'tight' is 'too tight.' if we're going to have to use damage mods  as i support above , then give us the natural cpu for bcuiis and a moderate shield tank  as opposed to the current abject failure . honestly: the dread is so situation-specific it's not as if we'd gain access to 'overpowered' fittings if we had more cpu. as i recall, they don't exactly make any bigger modules than capital-sized. tl;drsplit weapon systems are a *****, but also awesome. we're one of the few races with the ability to use a full rack of low-slot damage mods  for both projectiles and torpedoes . go with that, and rebalance risk:reward for a gank-fitted naglfar to something *sane*. remember, we have 2x the training of other characters."
"i've been thinking about this for some time since i wanted to revamp my overview settings but was deterred by all of the non-related settings i'd lose by completely throwing out my dat files.first they need to get all of the user's overview settings and window positioning data pulled out of the current dat files and store them in plain ascii files with sensible names. this would allow for easy backup of the files as well as easy tweaking for power users.secondly they need to add the ability for the user to import and apply the settings from the ascii files on the fly. preferably being able to switch among them with key-bindings.these changes would:1  allow the user to have the freedom to make changes to their overview settings and window positioning with the ability to painlessly revert the changes if they are not satisfied.2  allow the user to have multiple overview settings/tab configurations. yes tabs are nice but even with what i have available sometimes i'd like a different arrangement without opening and mucking around with overview settings.3  allow the user to have multiple window arrangements for various purposes. i know you can drag windows around and move them but still i'd like to be able to have several different arrangements saved that i can switch through instead of having to constantly drag windows about."
"please god yes."
"i absolutely hate having to reset my overview settings. ****in' signed!"
"fixing overview settings is pretty damn annoying, my pc crashed with eve running the other day and i lost all my settings : "
"/signed/signed/signed...oh, can only vote once? damn."
"in practical terms letting a single skill escalate all the way to level 5 is a similar  though longer  approach. but in that way you get around 1 or 2 weeks, i believe, that may be too much.but what you say makes a lot of sense. and it would make my life a lot easier  specially if the queue is set to 24hs. "
"from a coding standpoint, building a means to add skill until the total training time is over a given timeframe, 12 or 24 hours. the problem comes in the form of the large player base and the database space this may take up.the lightest solution, from a database standpoint, is to automatically start training the next level in the completed skill.  1 --> 2 ... --> 5  actually, there wouldn't be any extra data stored since everything is already there.no matter what type of automatic skill switching scheme is decided upon, a new method  in code or stored procedure  would actually have to be called to make the switch. this code could actually be controlled by a new bit in a  or the  configuration table controlling if skills are switched when the account is expired.if a progressive  automatic  skill queue is implemented, the skill switching would have to stop, but not if it's limited to a short timeframe.in all honesty, i don't care what implentation is taken, just that there is an implementation.  even if it's an api based evemon type external app, but that's very dangerous to think about, security wise. "
"never understood the crying about having no skill queue. i've trained a couple of characters now and had no problem at all. i could see a problem if once you started training a skill you couldn't change till it finished, but there's nothing stopping you from looking at your skills and seeing that amarr cruiser iv will finish while you're at work, so quickly log in and train another skill in the mean time, and switch back when you get home.heck pretty much every other mmo you have to be logged in and killing stuff to earn xp in order to increase your skills. eve takes away that hassle and still people cry about it"
"you don't see a problem because you are being selfish and can't see beyond your own experience.there are many people that wouldn't even dare to install the game at their work, or simply they don't have the right to do so. i try to do my work at the office and i don't need to be pending over a game. or to put it differently: i don't play games at work, i do my work at work. i play games when i have time to do it.and also, i have many responsibilities in my life. i have a small kid and i don't like to be forced to look over a game. call me casual gamer, but i pay for this game as anybody else. if ccp can do something to improve my gaming experience, i will welcome it."
"i still don't understand complaints about the skill system. it's already the best system available to casual players  like me .i never had problem to switch skill, except maybe 4/5 times where i forgot to switch to a long skill. so, i lost maybe 1 or 2 days of training. and what ? did it change my gaming experience ? no. and it was my fault, i forgot to switch to the right skill, si i blame myself, not ccp.i like the skill system we have, i like to think about how to plan my skills, i don't want to queue my skills."
"nice for you!a lot of people don't think that way, though."
"supported."
"this is on my todo-list for raising for next weeks meeting. i will let you guys know once i submit the issue to the csm for the rest to read."
"over a year ago, a large set of new hard-wirings were implemented. once of these were an invention implant.sadly, this never worked. ccp removed it from the game, talking about wanting to change them to give a time bonus on invention instead of a chance bonus.a post about this is here.so this thread is for supporting the idea that ccp should get busy and give us this implant, which we were given, but then taken away again. the time bonus implant sounds awesome, so why don't give us it?"
"some implants still exist, being plugged in...here's the official statements so far:2007.08.02 01:20:00:28/08/2007 15:14:00:2007.09.27 09:55:002008.01.02 14:16:00: it would be time for an update. thank you."
"yes may be even a rof one"
"of cousre while this would bw good, there are still implants  like the invention implants  that are in game over a yer and still broken. if you are going to put drone implants in-game make them work"
"tbh, for me it's not about the time of the card, but it actually is the price. right now i pay appr 234.- for one month by credit, and 336.- for a 60d gtc. this game is absolutely unaffordable, unless i find a friend in the us to pay via credit, as that is the only affordable way to play now, as 2 30d gtc's were cheaper, than 1 60d. in fact, one 90d was cheaper, than 1 60d.1 euro = 15.6.-1$ = 9.6.-you do the f'n math. 60d gtc should cost at most! as much as 2 30d ones used to cost, and then some less, as it's buying bulk.and in gtc trade for isk the outcome should be a 60d gtc should cost 300 isk overpriced.the eve novel cost me about as much as one month of the game itself."
"my account will expire on the 24. probably i will pay one more month. and after that i will freeze my account and i will wait. i will wait for eve to become a real premium product. i don't like to pay a premium price for a sub-standard product. and with premium i mean:1. no lag for large fleet battle. now with over 100 players in one system the game is lagy like hell, and this is not premium, this is sub-standard product.2. no bugs. a premium product should be free of bugs. from this point of view wow is a premium product, bu not eve. in 4 month while i had played wow until i get bored i did not see a single bug. in eve, also 4 months, i have seen some horrific bugs: from npc that did not take any damages, to ui bugs that still are there, eve has left me with a bitter taste so far.3. no big bugs. and the big bugs are when the client is crashing, or memory leaks. and i got a lot of client crashing, and some times the client leaks like a broken pipe.so they incresed the price with promises that some time in the near feature eve will be better. bu i don't want, i will not pay for a non existing product. when they will make eve a true premium product, then i will continue eve, until the i have better things to do than paying to test a sub-standard product."
"/signalso....can i have your stuff??"
"mandatory thumbs up..."
"ah yes, the old problem:some want war for fun in the game.some want peace for fun in the game.making both happy is mutually exclusive.so those who want to play cooperative and konstructive will never be happy about those that play destructive. yes, the pay-to-grief is bad. i don't like it all that much myself. but this is eve. there is no such thing as \"no reason\" in a computer game - \"i like to blow things up.\" is plenty of reason to play a game where you can blow things up. i wouldn't like to get decced and have the results of collecting and missionrunning and trading and searching of years blown up by some \"wahahaha booom\" kind of guy. depending on how bad it would hit me i might even quit... for a while. *g*so mercs for hire would only benefit the rich corps further.one possible solution: \"0.8 - 1.0 sec = no war!\" concord just says no. not even your enemy. you can come and talk, be diplomatic, but shooting each other will not be accepted in these areas for the sake of security of all bystanders."
"this is not the problem... all ppl in this forum are arguing the wrong problem. the true and only problem with the war dec is that all eve online empire wars are guerrila warfare. even if a noob corp hire mercenaries, and pay them very well, they cannot patrol 24/7, meanwhile griefers can strike whenerver they want and often they have carebear alts.the war dec system have to allow to noobs or anyway to the defender to put an end to the war by force. how? destroying enemy headquarter and force them to stay in npc corp for 2 or 3 month... this way war declaration will be done only for real needs, not for fun.again, all other methods will bring to nothing."
"as the ceo of an empire/ 0.0 pvp/griefer corporation, i would like to say that i fully support some of the ideas in this thread, and would like to address others.first, conditions of victory.all the ideas that have been presented would be insanely difficult to implement, and as i read this i thought of several ways to loophole/exploit every single one of them.except one, sadly the only idea which made any sense was the \"command center\" proposal. anything that forces or gives incentive for people to undock and fight is good for eve.next topic, what should the penalties be for losing a war?well, to be frank, it has to hurt. such ideas as having your corp disbanded and not allowing members to join other corps for 2 months is a little harsh and would surely cause a drop in playerbase.my solution: make a command center cost a ton of isk, and take about two weeks to anchor. corps get only one command center  which when in system with fleet could give some sweet bonuses :p , when that command center goes down, after re-inforced of course, the war ends and that corp cannot declare war again until they have a new command center. if a group of players were to have alt corps set up to hop into just to make another wardec they would be shelling out tons of isk for keeping command centers up for all thier alt corps.of course this goes full circle as well, stop players from dropping roles and corp hopping everytime they get decced. some restrictions need to be imposed there, or some monetary penalties.and on the subject of mercs, simply allow a merc corp  or the defending corp  to pay concord and the merc corp may enter the war legally under the flag of the defending corporation. of course, in doing so, the defending corporation will have just created a multicorp war situation and the attacking corp could bring in some friends as well.if there's one way to bring people in eve together, this is it.now the corps who live on wars have consequences, and the carebears can actually fight back."
"maybe up the costs or something, but there is nothing wrong with \"pay to grief,\" this is eve. also, a more centralized mercenary system would be nice for the mercs, but i hope you mean the mercs have to bid on it and the seller pays, not that the seller can just get rid of a dec really easily whenever they want."
"well, the seller should have a say in who gets the job, not just a bidding war. that can be exploited rather easily.oh... and another thing, what's wrong with our current merc system?"
"if this ship does come along it should be accompanied by a ban of some sort on people using cargo containers inside industrials that add up to more cargo space in total than the ship is designed to accommodate. i do it myself - i have eight containers in an iteron v, greatly increasing the amount i can carry - but it always strikes me as ridiculous. this is eve, not doctor who. a ship between a hauler and a freighter would eliminate the need to do it i'd have thought."
"actually there are some thoughts i had about this whole thing and it comes down to:no faction items can be crafted in non-faction-facilities - aka \"high sec\".this would mean: source of faction = highsec, source of officer = low er sec. and cause some interaction between these sources of items.no t2 bpos.none, ever. delete all. t2 items could be something created by using a highly researched t1 bpo, and expertise in crafting. not some luck-based system, but something that just makes the character producing it the most important factor, and the bpos quality a crucial factor  to the amount of waste?  on a t2 production."
"risk is irrelevant.i'll say it again - there is no reason to go into low-sec. even in the smaller high-sec market hubs there is enough volume to support a living. the problem in low-sec is not the risk at all - capital logistics have pretty much obsoleted any need for a low-sec market. you have your high-sec hubs and your 0.0 hubs. that's how our eve-world has evolved.high-volume producers build in high-sec, their stuff gets filltered down to 0.0 and low-sec. see, people are more efficient at moving their stuff where they need it than producers are at trying to figure out where stuff is needed. it is more beneficial to producers to bring their products to where there already exists volume. you can go and build your ravens in low-sec and sell one every 4 days, and i will continue to build mine in high-sec at my market hub and sell 5 a day."
"there are three things that need to happen.1  stocks need to be able to be traded securely from corp to player and player to player, like items are currently traded.this will allow people to sell and buy stocks at market prices that are determined by how people value the corporation and its stock.2 corps need the ability to distribute dividendscorps should not have to distribute dividends. it should be optional. buyers of stock of corps that don't distribute dividends would be buying stock based in speculated increase in price and control of the company. distributing dividends would help make a corporation's stock look more interesting to investors. these dividends should be automatic but not be guaranteed. guaranting dividends takes the risk out of the stock and would raise stock prices artificially. the corp should have the option to be able to set a dividend price per share at a beginning a period, also with the option not to have a dividend payment for that period. this way, the corp can control its dividend payment period and make sure it has enough isk to cover the dividend per shares. again, this factor would help buyers determine what price they would like to pay on the market. at the end of the period, the money would be taken from the corp wallet and distributed among the shareholders. if the corp does not have enough money in the corp wallet to cover it dividend. the corp wallet should be emptied and zeroed.3 players need to be able to see dividend and stock price history of the corporationthis will help players determine which stock to buy at what price based on the reliability of the company in the past. the history will show when corps don't meet their dividends, dividend per share, price and frequency of dividends. even if this is done off-line or out of game this would be fine, research companies stock history off-line and buy it in game. most people do this for their ships, outfitting, etc. already anyways, so that's not that big of a deal.if you guys are worried about corruptful ceo's, have an insurance system where corps can have the option to have there dividend's guaranteed by having them backed by a npc corps. this would allow newer corporations to help gain reliability and trust from their investors. one could take into account the corps standing with the npc and concord to determine how much of the dividends the npc would be willing to guarentee for a price. this would prompt a new stat to keep track of also, % of dividend guaranteed to the investor even if company wasn't able to pay upfor examplecorp abc has:-1 mil shares-100 isk per share dividend declared at beginning of period 100 mil in isk paid to investors -corp has good standing with npc corp and has paid npc corp x amount to insure 20 mil in dividends.- at end of period corp only has 85 million in wallet.-corp wallet ends up with 5 million --first it will take from the corp wallet  85 milllion  and if there isn't enough, the corp gets all the insurance from the npc  20 million  so the investors get their isk, but the corp takes a hit in standing with the npc corp. the magnitude of the hit should be based on the size of guarantee. the blame should also be shared throughout the corporation, slightly decreasing every player in the corp's standing with that corporation. this would discourage corps from missing their dividend numbers and encourage corp members to work together to achieve this. also if the corp looses enough standing it shouldn't be able to get the same guarantee, or a guarantee at all until the corp regains its standing with that corporation.like i said though, this will just artificially raises the price of stock through a fake sense of security.there will always be people trying to rip you off. that's part of the risk of investing. and like real life, one doesn't have to have stock to be successful in eve, so if you don't like the risk just don't invest."
"you barbarians and your ambitions of hunting space whales. well, let me tell you, if space whales become a reality, i'm going to form a obsidian-peace pirate alliance to protect the whales  and gank all space-whale hunters  in the name of protecting the only intelligent life in the eve universe."
"only if we also get giant space hamsters  i'm having spelljammer flashbacks  ..."
"space hamsters in enormous balls with 8 highslots."
"i misread the first part of that as \"space hamsters with enormous balls\"."
"well, they do. ever had a male hamster who hasn't seen a female in his 2 year existence?"
"eve needs more stuff in space why not creatures? come on guys, don't you remember sector x in starfox? or all those episodes of star trek with weird space creatures made of energy?"
"i liked it when i first read about it half a year ago, and i like it now."
"they'd make an awesome exploration site.dreadnought class npc, weaponless, that leaves if you don't scram it maybe?dropping a lot of loot, if you can kill it : "
"i am a space whaleswimming in the seai think that the tractor beamsare going to catch mei am a space whaleswimming in the seai've noticed that space'snot as clean as it should bei am a space whaleswimming in the seai feel that the nebula'sgetting too warm for mei am a space whaleswimming in the seai worry that the whaling menare coming after mei am a space whaleplaying in the seai really want to flip my finsand giggle with gleewe will save the space whales. we will use any means to protect their right to swim through space. any who approach the space whales in any ship other than a pod, we gonna capital hot-drop it on em. we have support in various parts of the universe who have been afraid to come out, but have volunteered secretly because they can no longer stand the sound of space whales being murdered. you could go mine. you could run missions. it's not about the money. you're hunting them for the thrill of overpowering a marvelous creature and destroying something more beautiful than yourself. when we showed our videos of the space whales to the jovians, their hearts were warmed, and though they are few, they have also vowed their protection of the space whales. they believe such a creature spawned from the nothingness of space must hold knowledge of the powers that have eluded them. space whales, perhaps more technologically advanced than any capsuleer ship outside of jovian space, are happy. the jovians will not let their songs perish from this universe.we will save the space whales."
"yes."
"this would be a welcome addition to eve"
"do want!"
"just reinforcing many points and suggestions here, but still here's my .02:- poss right now as \"objectives\" is a powergaming element in itself. i think when caps were rare that was fine, but these days it's too simple and annoying of an aspect. territory needs to have an infrastructure to succeed. logistics, services, etc. to compare eve territory to rl colonization, you can set up tiered sov as suggested. require specific structures such as depots/warehouses in each system, small civilian service facilities and listening posts or inter-system communication relays. for example, you have system \"a\"...\"f\" with:3 supply depots3 in-system fueling stations1 comm relayx number of poss that require the depots, relays, and stations in order to run. the small structures can be raided and destroyed, making them juicy targets for raiders. as long as they exist, operation of the pos goes on. this removes the chore out of pos fueling which really is pointless and just annoying. the stations can require service costs which would replace the fueling isk sink. if a structure is attacked, the comm post would send an alert which would make it so not all systems would require constant powergaming patrols, however is an enemy recon finds the comm posts and its attacked/ destroyed first, no alert is sent. as the structures are attacked/destroyed, then the pos is affected. it gets weaker, and if the stations and depots are destroyed, it would be forced to go into reinforced mode. defenses would suffer to a point that smaller bs gangs could take on the pos muich easier. these outlying systens would feed more defended core systems that would be much stronger and have a better infrastructure. this allows gangs to make quick raids, force alliances to actually patrol occasionally, pos warfare and superblobbing to go away, pos chores lightened, and purpose to actually claiming space."
"while some of you may not like this, i would also like to see this kind of prime fiction introduced not for roleplayers but for everybody. i am a very casual roleplayer, as in, roleplaying for me is a simple way to stave off occasional boredom. when this kind of foundation pf is introduced it needs to be introduced in a manner that is valuable for roleplayers and non-roleplayers alike. it should be very concise, not packed with all kind of taleweaver vaguery and other such bull****.tell us whats up, in depth, but without a ton of \"leave you guessing\" nonsense."
"/signedthe jin-mei don't even have the luxary of a player group writing stories for them, to my knowledge.  the chinese influence from the descriptions is fairly blatent but that's it. and how about the mannar? they've been part of the pf since the begining yet there's nothing from them."
"yus"
"as i said earlier your post was semi-confusing. ok i agree some of the agent are kind of mess up. storyline agent are the most messed up as we have no mining storyline agent atm. however let agree that mining/kill mission doesn't mix very well like oil and water yes?"
"it would be nice to know what's going on."
"long overdue."
"definately something that i would use alot, the amount of times i have come up with really good ideas for mates and sent them off. then realised i can't remember them and they deleted the mails is almost rediculous."
"supported because a  it's a great idea and b  \"tzar'rim\" - nuff said."
"bump from the depths"
"no support.to touch on most of your points:pos's don't need to be easier to setup. use of large numbers of pos's shouldn't be encouraged any more than it is by game mechanics, they shouldn't be easier to setup or run. yes, i have spent a lot of time running them myself.jump freighters being useless? that's just stupid, if you find them to not be worth the cost, you are doing it wrong. mine has been worth every last isk i spent on it and is used on a very regular basis. three times the capacity of a rorqual with the ability to move through empire with twice the hitpoints of a normal freighter, with a jump drive added on top? if you can't work out how to make this worth the isk, well, that's down purely to inexperience and lack of imagination. cloaking/defending itself? well, the idea is - believe it or not - it isn't a combat ship! you escort it, perhaps with carriers  or even by scouting , and prevent it from getting into combat. jump freighters, if anything, need their cost increased. way too much bang for the buck right now.carriers do too much for their cost as it is already. they shouldn't have any more hauling or combat capabilities. and don't try shouting inexperience, i have three carriers and use them very often, and have done for a long time. can't find a use for them? well, that's your inexperience talking. they are still perfect for moving small volumes of high value material, still very useful in a large number of combat situations  dreads are only particularly useful at tower/supercap shooting . and don't take pos repping as being something small. it isn't.suicide ganking? i can agree with changing that one."
"nice summary of the whole thread.now maybe you should actually try reading it.i'll clue you in on the general theme:\"i personally do not like playstylex, and therefore i think it should be made harder. i do not think it is fair that someone should be able to interact with me without my explicit consent. i want to play eve in a bubble, and anyone who tries to burst it must be punished. my style of play is correct because it is in line with some moral code which i am unable to step outside of in a game where it really does not apply.\"i wonder how the thread would go if it was asking ccp to stop insurance payouts for people who declare war, because it is unfair on the victim?or stopping insurance on self destructed ship?or at gates in low-sec?or in 0.0?insurance should not be based on what some players think fair or unfair, because in all honesty it is a stupid enough mechanic already. it should apply to all players equally.if suicide ganking is an issue, tackle it  although i'd be interested to see how many ships are killed per day with the attackers subsequently being killed by concord . tackle the heart of it. don't slap a stupid knee-jerk bandage on it and hope for the best.the problem is, people don't want to face up to the underlying problems, because that may mean things that they think favorable to their playstyle being ajusted too, and that would never do.they aren't after fairness and balance, they want vengence.if only they'd take that spirit and do something with it, rather than crying for ccp to do it for them."
"first of all, sorry for the pyramid quote, i couldnt resist. i, as a character of marginal integrity, must argue this point. i personally consider pvp eve's strongest drawing point. i have only attempted a suicide gank once, however i have done my fair share of low-sec killings. also, i can testify that it does take a ridiculous amount of time to raise sec-status. think about it. 4 hours of hardcore 0.0 ratting  often in hostile space  to account for one kill. think about that for a second. now compare it to your carebear-esque ways. imagine, after every lvl 4 mission or jetcan filled, you had to go and bash your head against a wall for 30 minutes. i have now filed my case for consideration, though i am sure many others have said the exact same thing in the innumerable  well not really  pages that come before the one my specific post is on. well, every decibel produced by a thousand people in a croud makes you deaf."
"to repeat: it's high risk insurance. and before you ask the question again with the vagueness that makes it no yes or no answer : a soldier, police officer, or anyone commits a criminal act  determined by the courts with legal jurisdiction over them  and is killed, then it is not paid to the beneficiaries."
"so, all i have to do is claim i am a soldier interdicting covert enemy supply lines in a black-ops mission, and then the insurance will pay out because i was killed by a hostile police force whilst on active duty?seems fair.at the same time we can stick anyone who self destructs a ship in to e-prison for a few years, because fraud is bad.yeah?or we can accept that insurance in eve is a game mechanic buffer open to everyone equally, because it is far simpler and fairer than making judgement calls on each claim.but then i guess you 'd be happy for that to happen, so long as it was you making the calls."
"the ones making the calls are the developers.they are the ones that see it as a brake on the fact suicide ganks are far more profitable than the risks/cost balance allows for."
"avon, try not to blow a fuse like i did when replying to his idiocy. after much soul-searching i've come to the conclusion that he really isn't trolling, and that he really doesn't understand what we're talking about."
"first post in thread:posted - 2008.07.10 14:13:00last post in threadposted - 2008.07.21 16:52:00 that is over 11 days and only 33 supports putting this thread at 3 supports per day. it will be years before this thread will meet the 25% of voters minimum threshold at this rate. and ashen angel, nearly half the posts in this thread are yours. do you really think rehashing the same idea over and over again is a good idea and will help you gain support for your cause? obviously it isn't working.also you have such bad tunnel vision you completely ignored my last post only to reply on specifics about isk insurance instead of taking the other ideas into consideration. instead of using your brain, which you hopefully have, to find an acceptable solution to most parties you are pushing an issue only acceptable to a small minority of people, and ignoring all other ideas. instead you continue page after page rehashing the same arguement to make sure those ideas get buried in the middle of the thread where no one will read them besides the ones that have been keeping up with your blurf."
"trading kill rights are one of the options already listed as being looked intothe module wouldn't help very much with many suicide attacks  since they are aimed at the lone ships or unsupported. instead they pop the logistics ships since their tank is being ported away by expensive modules the last is a basic merc contract, with terms on payment. neither of the last two affect the cost/risk of shooting empty haulers without even bothering to scan to see if there is cargo.  an empty hauler with certain named cargo expanders is worth it depending on the ships used "
"if this happens, to be honest i'll be taking my entire corp over to the forge so we can suicide gank the crap out of everything to join the guristas."
"the cost risk of shooting empty haulers is you lose the cost of your modules. ship insurance only covers ships mineral value, not markup, not modules. the empty hauler pilot if insured should get an insurance payout too. thus suicide ganking empty ships is a non-factor. if suicide ships are too cheap its because ships in general are too cheap. the modules i proposed would help in the case you described. in both cases they are diverting dps and allowing the target to live longer. all the escorting fleet has to do is make sure the target lives until concord can arive and jam and kill everything. a module that sacrifices shield to repair shield can be balanced that it can repair a very high amount for a very short period of time, while in empire this time would be enough to allow concord to arrive. or the gankers have to bring and coordinate more people, increasing the potiental cost for them  increasing the split of the rewards too  to drive their ships into oblivion. in any case, any fix to suicide ganking should require players activly working to prevent it. not some arbitrary punishment system because someones activities are deemed \"too risky\" which frankly can apply to many more things besides suicide ganking, including ships fit out for alliance or factional war.  especially dictors, which are technically suicide ships in any fleet fight based on how fast the enemy fleet will be shooting them. so its essientally drop a bubble and die ."
"avon, everytime this topic comes up you fly in with 100 post in each thread trying to highjack it.its done, its over with. accept the fact that you wont be able to suicide gank for free anymore.your extreme arguments are virtually always dismissed because you take the topic and keep spinning it and spinning it till it doesn't even resemble what it once was.cancel your sub to avon-online and try playing eve-online more..."
"how about we break the arguments down into a simpler question.is recieving an insurance payment for losing your ship while ganking reducing the isk risk involved with ganking to near zero?for the purpose of this response pretend this has absolutely zero to do with risk/reward of anyone else. anyone is welcome to respond but i am especially interested in responses from our key contributors here. ki an, draygo has been getting into it , windjammer, ashen, mozetta, avon, leandro, and me. this should be a simple yes or no."
"yes"
"ki an,have you changed your mind on the stupidity tax?read 2 posts, 248  mine  and 256  your reply getting rid of the insurance pay out on ships killed by concord is a tax on the stupidity of the pilot that lost the ship...just like getting suicide ganked could be called a tax on a stupid pilot who had too much value in/on a ship and was not paying attention...being the ganker and not getting the loot  or no loot  = stupid  poor planning  taxed the cost of your ship + sec loss...being the ganked and not getting away = stupid  you did put your self in the position to get ganked  you get taxed the lost cargo  and perhaps part of the cost of the ship ...all of the npc corp items have no place in this thread, they are a red herring, while there are issued with npc corps, they have no bearing on the requirement of a stupidity tax for suicide gankers.all the posts about people who like or don't like pvp combat, or the market, or missions have no bearing on a stupidity tax on suicide gankers."
"no, i haven't changed my mind. i do believe that stupid suicide ganks should cost the ganker. however, i don't think removing insurance is the right way to go. a rework of mechanics is more time consuming, but it will most probably lead to a better game. i'd rather wait for balance than have a knee-jerk patch that fixes the wrong things."
"lol wut?i don't suicide gank, i haven't for about 4 years.i don't like it as a mechanic, and i would welcome a way to limit or remove it as part of a holistic review of many conflict related mechanics.however, i honestly think that people who go on banging the \"zomg insurance ain't fair\" drum do so precicely because they would rather try to punitively punish people who play in a way they don't like, than to take a step back and see how eve could be enriched and balanced in a broader way. they don't want that because the know that the game is unbalanced in more ways that advantage them than those they dislike.insurance is not the solution to this, and it only serves to skew balance further in favour of people who already have huge advantages, whilst obscuring the the real problems.i'm sorry you got me so wrong."
"i'm sorry, but it's close to 1am here, and i'm a bit tired. could you rephrase the question? not sure what you're getting at."
"ki its a set up question. she/he/it is reaching."
"finally understood the question the answer is a definate no."
"look at you forgetting to switch character. oh dear.there are few ships where the insurance payout = cost of ship + mods + insurance premium; or even close to it.lower the cost, sure. mitigate it entirely, no.the real question is: would removing insurance on concord kills stop or significantly reduce suicide ganking?i don't think it would. and if it wouldn't, is the call for it an attempt at balance, or a way to lash out because they feel powerless?"
"not to mention the fact that there is a lot more to consider than just isk when it comes to suicide ganking."
"i know man just bear with me on this. i think we can all see that the disussion is getting further from relevant and more towards repeating the same crap over and over by both sides.i just want to clear up the arguments that we have and need a starting point."
"it entirelly depends on how you measure isk/risk, as risk has many different meanings in eve. as thus, it is not a fair question, and the only answer i can give is no. we could discuss the risk, but that's already been done to death in this thread, and obviously we don't agree."
"or maybe i still don't understand the question.edit: if you are asking this: recieving insurance, the suicide ganker loses almost 0 isk wether he succeeds or fails his gank?then the answer is still no. i did some calculation. given a tier 2 battleship and t1 fitting, the cost for the ganker is around 13 million. that is not a lot, but it's still higher than 0."
"if voiding the insurance on a ship due to it being killed by concord would not help balance suicide ganking, claims the gankers, but it would make the victims feel better, then whats the big deal about implimenting it?then there is the gankers saying that if their insurance is void for being concorded then insurance should just be done away with all together, so they are not the only was affected.no one feels any pity for the badger 2 on autopilot with billions in the hold. i have read this enire post and only one person said they think they should be able to autopilot thru empire in total safety  which i personally think was a troll  so you can stop bringing up the person on autopilot in the t1 hauler bit."
"what about the most common suicide gank ship? dominix t1 fit with t1 sentries?? thats tier 1 and it only takes a handful to pop a freighter in 0.5"
"do you know this or are you making an assumption here? i know tri are  where  pretty big on suicide ganking. seemed to me that the domi wasn't the first choice there. nor has it been on any of the killmails i've seen thus far. the domi was the best suicide ganker before the last nerf to suicide ganking  yes, suicide ganking has already been nerfed - several times , but now that concord insta jams and kills drones, they are not so hot anymore. the 'handful' you talk about would be around 15-20 or so, as before the nerf, it took about 10 with t2 drones to kill a freighter in a .5 system. i know. i tried."
"let me clarify. i have been told many times by people that domi was prefered but honestly, i have seen freighters get ganked in empire and i see teir 1 used a lot because of costs.my point is on a teir 1 bs after it is insured with only t1 fittings, after insurance payout its only a few million it costs you. a few million to have a crack at the reward of what you are suicide ganking which is going to be a whoooooole lot more than what you lose everytime you take a shot at it.i view it like a slot machine. you only have to pay a quarter but stand to gain hundreds of dollars based on many factors all in your favor. you have to have many, many, many un-sucessful ops  losing your ship to concord  in order to come close to what you stand to gain in only one sucessful op.as far as the alliance i am in, does that really matter in this topic?"
"someone posted an idea in the minutes for this topic about a structure that would take care of or help with pos fueling. we could add a supply depot structure to this - maybe that would allow you to keep a large supply of fuel in a central location in system, and drones could ferry it out to all your pos in system as needed? then the drones and the supply depot could be a target for raiders to attack, but if your territory is secure it dramatically lessens your need to refuel. anyone more familiar with pos logistics that can tell me if that would be helpful?"
"the idea looks to be headed in the right direction. i like more objectives with more volatility for individual objectives.the relationship that needs to change to make the sov changes really have impact is that whatever minor goals are put into place need to have diminishing returns for both the attacker and defender. that's how you make it where ten pilots in ten gangs are more advantageous than a hundred guys in one fleet.what comes to mind in 5s when i think of this kind of thing is a more dod type scenario. gates operate like flags. getting there in a domi and pounding on the objective for an hour with drones will get the job done. a few pilots can do it faster. a lot of pilots can't do it better, especially when they could be hitting other objectives.not suggesting specific mechanics, just that whatever objectives are in place need to be more numerous and more volatile, while still remaining tied to a low volatility buffer that prevents timezone issues.the current system is for a few pos's  which should be serving starbase roles, not sov roles  to be in low numbers and have low volatility. they also serve as skirmish points and timezone buffers. thus all activity is centered around the pos's, which also serve as death stars, and so only blobs with capships are really important in sovereignty contests."
"there was a lot of ideas kicking around in this thread. i tried to sum it up in the submission template i'm writing.first solution:the pilgrim is forced to fight inside web range only recon that has to . but it doesn't do that very well. move it outside of web range like all other recon ships.- increase the nos and neut rangeor second solution:if the pilgrim is supposed to fight inside web-range, it doesn't tank well enough. it's forced to fit a cap-booster in order to keep up, due to the nos-nerf. this could be fixed by:- increase the pg in order to fit cap-booster.- increase the nos percentage amount so that it can also \"tank\" using cap-warfare.this was what i could make out of it. what do you guys think? is this how you want to suggest it to ccp?if you have any other suggestions, i would like if you could use the above format, so that it can be added to the submission template. deadline is friday."
"the pilgrim need a boost, yes.if it was up to me, i'd just change it's role, scrap it's nos/neut bonus and replace it by a laser cap use bonus, and give it 4/5 gun slots. that would basically make it a zealot with drones and some ew, but without much laser dps  no damage/rof bonus, and only 5 lows, seriously limiting damage mods and tank ."
"this would be my choice of fixes for it.my fitting problem with the pilgrim has always been cpu, not pg. but fitting a cap booster may require both, cpu and pg.i don't like the 2nd solution... i think the pilgrim should mimic the combat recon in every way that the other races mimic theirs."
"i tend to agree with this. but the idea came up from this thread. what do the rest of you guys think? is the 1st solution the best one? maybe i missed some other solution?"
"yep, #1 is the bestextend the range on nos/neut as per the curse, a touch more cpu. pilgrim is then fixed...."
"see post #58 for suggestions  and #57 for long-winded supporting details .the pilgrim is rather unique amoung the recons as noted. you would also do well to convo verone...if anyone knows the pilgrim...he does. looking forward to your response."
"it is not forced to fit a cap booster by any regard - that 2nd fix should be more focussed on its cap amount/recharge, so you don't need to fit a cap battery/injector to get some kind of sustainable cap warfare going on.as it stands you can get it perma running 3 neuts, a disruptor a web and 2 tds with a large cap battery and 2 cap power relays, or using ccc rigs, but it has no propulsion this way, if it had the large cap battery built in, you could choose to go sustainable cap warfare and ab route, or less sustainable mwd and cap warfare route.web range wasn't an issue either, perhaps the pilgrim could also do with some more armor  most fits involve a plate and rep or just a plate , so it can survive long enough to chew down a target."
"here is where i am coming from, and you tell me if i am wrong for it..could i train to fly sacrileges? sure, i could. i can already fly all caldari/gallente/minmatar hacs and use all the t2 guns/drones/missiles/ect for all those ships no problem. now if i trained for sacrilege which considering i have 17million sp in missiles i could do just great, but that doesn't change the fact that the cerberus needs boosted. just migrating to the flavor of the month doesn't fix game balance.is the cerberus a lot harder to fit than the sacrilege? agree or disagreeshould the cerberus lose some of its missile range  which imo is overkill  for some better mid-range capability? agree or disagreeperhaps part of the problem is the sacrilege is, dare i say, too good? agree or disagreecerberus is a missile ship, should it not be effective with both heavy and heavy assault launchers? agree or disagreedo the caldari need two 'sniper' hac? agree or disagreei will always and forever hate the kinetic missile damage only bonus, the very fact the sacrilege is not limited to 1 damage bonus on its missiles really bugs me.i also think it is wrong to have to train another race to use the caldari's racial weapons. that is ridiculous, you don't have to train caldari to use pulse lasers. while yes the sacrilege is ok since it's a khanid ship, i still think the caldari should be rather ok with all kinds of missiles, you don't see the raven boxed into just cruise missiles, it can pack torpedoes no problem.. and technically speaking the eagle can use blasters just fine, even if it's not the optimal use of the ship.cerberus though? fitting problems out the wahzooo, it's in the same boat the nighthawk is in."
"what jim just said."
"if you try to fit it to fill a role like a sac, yeah, it is a pain.however, fitting it for its intended role presents no problems whatsoever.as to maybe the issue being the sac is too good .. yes, yes it is.if it was slower it would be more balanced - but it seems ccp haven't gotten their heads around the speed problem yet. that isn't specifically a nano-whine btw, just more an issue with fast missile boats - there is no penalty to making a missile ship fast as there are no tracking issues to worry about .. which is why we lost the ability to use dual mwd's back in the day, with those crazy ravens."
"i agree -though- i think that heavy launcher setups could use a lil boost. it's kind of annoying a sacrilege has a way easier time fitting a full rack of haml than the cerberus fitting just heavy launchers.. maybe the sacrilege is too easy to fit, it seems overly easy, to me.. least in eft..for example i can basically fit 2 bcu ii, 2 overdrive ii, a damage control ii, 2 large extenders  1 regolith, or drop it for a webifier , a 10mn mwd, a warp disruptor ii, 5 haml ii, a med diminishing nos.. tight but it fits, almost 500 dps and 3300m/s 30,000 effective hp.. thats pretty super.. and it's completely cap sustainable???? ya.. sac is uh, pretty good.. i 'guess'.."
"compared with most hac's it seems very easy to fit tbh, probably too easy.the probably forgot they turned it in to a missile boat and left it with stats for lasers. :p"
"1. agree.2. disagree completely. if anything, it should get more range - currently i have to use rigs to get the full 240 km range. 3. agree sort of - but i think the problem is really that jav hams are too good.4. too vague to comment on. are you asking for a pg increase, or what?5. yes. the eagle and cerberus, despite both being \"snipers\", fulfil different roles."
"yes that is my assumption as well, amarr 'boost' indeed. nerf the sac.. 1. ok we agree.2. i don't think so, that would kind of defeat the purpose of rigs, that is if you really wanted to shoot heavys that far, uhm it takes a lot of sensor boostage to achieve 240km targeting range, and i think at this range your missiles are rather ineffective.. but hey if you insist you uhm actually do this whatever though i am inclined to not believe it..3. i am rather convinced the sacrilege is too good.. at the very least when it comes to power grid and capacitor.. you don't need a single fitting mod to pimp out a sacrilege, look at my previous post and at my fairly cookie cutter sac setup, i don't think that setup should be achievable without a rcu ii or two.. yet, it fits flawlessly on a sac.. also, sustainable cap with mwd? how nice.. without some cap relays or rechargers a cerberus caps out in about 2 minutes or less..4. i'm not sure, i think the cerberus could use more grid, though not more cpu, definitely more grid.. a power grid boost would help out a ton.5. i think the difference is that one is actually a good sniper in theory [eagle] and one is a **** poor sniper [cerberus] and bringing either to most fleet fights will get you yelled at for not bringing a battleship [raven > cerb / rokh > eagle], but whatever.. i don't know who you hang with but in my neck of the woods it's battleships for long range.. so basically the caldari hac have been pushed into a role that battleships do a ton better.. which leads me to thinking ccp would perhaps want reevaluate this.you're basically pigeonholing these ships into a role that is rather obsolete and no longer really exists anymore. eagles might have been uber interceptor swiping ships at once point but interceptors have been basically rendered obsolete thus the eagle isn't really needed anymore for that role.. and the cerberus can't hit a fast ship no matter what, if its fast enough a cerberus can only sit back and watch his missiles do nothing  and yes for christ's sake fix precision heavys ccp .. still once again i don't see how the cerberus is a good 'support' killer not when the support is generally untouchable by heavy missiles.so if you are telling me you like to rig your cerberus with sensor boosters and shoot heavy missiles that go about 8km/s from 240km away to shoot ships that go 3-6km/s i honestly don't believe you, sorry?"
"and by the way gypsio iii, falcons can jam up to 240km, not that one would waste time jamming a cerberus -- but in theory -- he could."
"from a small mixed gang in lowsec perspective... the cerberus is probably the biggest threat to the falcon. of course, the falcon should be jamming the bs in the main fight, but if it wants to be able to do that, it'll have to keep a jam on the cerberus. which can be tricky if the cerberus has a sensor strength of 95."
"what?caldari frontline ships?no. just no.show me one t1 caldari ship that is supposed to be a frontline fighter  with the possible exception of the drake . the whole point of caldari gunboats is their flexibility of range. when you warp into a battle, at almost any range, you immmediately start dishing out the damage. you're missing the point of the cerebrus jim."
"raven is not a front line fighter? drake is pretty good i suppose. caracal is certainly no sniper, even if it is a bit subpar.. kestrel is a front line frigate, for what its worth wait for it ... ... maybe ... ... caldari missile ships are their front line fighters, their railgun ships are the snipers..why wouldn't caldari have front line ships? sorry i didnt get the memo stating that every race gets them except caldari"
"how did i miss this rubbish the first time round? jim, you really need to stand back and learn how to use the cerberus, and to identify the situations in which \"missile sniping\" is useful. compare the dps delivered after 60 seconds of firing an eagle and a cerberus at a tackled target, for a start. otherwise, we're just going over the same old ground - you whining that the cerberus isn't as good as a sacrilege at being a sacrilege.really, this thread should be in ships and modules tbh."
"that's okay i don't used a watered down cruise missile raven, call me crazy but i'd rather use a raven, it kills falcons much faster. it's cheaper too and is even harder to jam and gosh darnit i believe even is more survivable.honestly if you wanna talk about your uber sniper cerberus and how cool it is and how stupid i am for not shooting heavy missiles from 240km away you can eve mail me in game and we can talk all night about how much you should do yourself a favor and use a raven.raven is also a lot easier to fit, get this -- you can fit siege launchers on it just fine too -- and do mid-short range pvp on it. crazy.. if only there were some kind of small gang pvp equivalent heavy assault cruiser like that for caldari........."
"emphasis added ...you got that right, gunboats are all right as long ranged support snipers  moa, ferox, eagle, rokh . however missile boats long range sniping is just idiocy. and the raven is heaps better in that regard than any other caldari ship."
"p!ss poor argument, absurd assumptions, no sense of how the game is played.can we move on to something that deserves attention and throw this thread in ships and modules - where it belongs?"
"i think the cerberus need 5% more powergrid, and only that."
"no support. the cerberus is my second most successful pvp ship  on kills scored  i have no problem fitting it for its role.  and i incidentally have no problem fitting heavy assaults with javelins that go a very very long way too. the problem with this thread is that its promoting a homogenization of eve online with all races and ships being dragged into a tight functional specification that risks damaging race and ship variety. many people have said it in this thread and i'll say it again. if you want to fly a sac train a sac and fly a sac. don't try and argue for game changes that make a cerb a sac. i'm offended to be honest that you are suggesting removing the cerb's missile range bonuses since those are the things that make it the premier light stand of missile sniper in the game. i love flying the cerb in this role and taking it against superior odds in situations completely untenable for close range ships. this thread is terrible and i definitely won't be supporting it."
"jade. read the thread again. i never said remove the cerberus range, though i think it has more range than it needs.i think the cerberus should have slightly more grid, since i think it's overly hard to fit, yes, even with heavy missile setups. the 6th high slot on the cerberus is not usable if you want to fit a mwd/lse.i think the cerberus should have the option of fitting haml, not be crippled by doing so. they are after all, missiles which do belong on the cerberus.i think the missile flight time bonus should be a double missile velocity bonus  same range but better for long range .i think the kinetic missile damage bonus should be damage bonus to all heavy missiles  sac gets short range missile dmg bonus caldari get long range for all missiles, that is fair .how in the world is that trying to make the cerberus a sacrilege?sacrilege should get a hefty nerf, it's too easy to fit.. way way too easy to fit, anyone actually disagree with me on this? no fitting mods are needed for a sac ever, its capacitor is too powerful for a missile ship.. perma mwd.. with no cap rechargers or relays? wtf?"
"1. grid. agree. cerberus is unnecessarily hard to fit.2. double velocity bonus. would be very nice indeed.3. all damage type bonus. well, it would be nice, but ccp might want to change it to all heavy missile damage types, excluding hams, just like the sac has a bonus to all ham types, but not hms.now, finally we're getting somewhere in this previously awful thread - you have specific proposals. we're moving out of ships and modules into features and ideas. what you need to do now is to identify the pg/cpu boosts that you think are needed  get modelling fits in eft , determine the effects of switching to a double velocity bonus  how does dps delivered over time change?  and, most importantly, justify these changes  you should enjoy this, you'll get to compare the cerb to the sacrilege . so get cracking."
"if you dare to have someone using an ati x700 in a closed beta, you can count me in. ; but i guess that won't make you happy.  eve is working fine, just a little on the slow side on wine+eve, eve-official-linux is giving me white-space and bungled portraits .it's been this way quite some time, and i keep waiting for improvements."
"this is actually a good example of ccps tactics. they've gone for the 'safe' option instead of the technologically 'best' option. opengl is a far faster framework than dx, and would have meant negligable dev time to create a linux or mac client.same with the back-end - ms sql server? what where they smoking, using db that's best used for small-to-medium sized applications? and even then only if it's free, but then why choose that over mysql. get a real db - there are many many threads on the technological comparison between mssql and virtually every other db under the sun, and the general concensus is that mssql can't scale well enough for eve's needs. look them up if you're interested.ccp are at the bleeding edge of mmorpgs, except in the technology they use.of course the longer they leave it, the more costly it will be to switch when it becomes necessary.about this so-called linux client - it's one of the worst things i've ever seen, for so many reasons, the primary one can be categorised as 'cedega'. it's a horrendous wrapper on so many levels, especially when wine works better than cedega, and already runs the premium client with only extremely minor bugs."
"i need to bump this thread during dt while people are still annoyed by it!"
"hell, i'm with you, and dt is during lunch for me  bst . this should be tied in with the ui overhaul, and i sincerely think that the csm should present a 'special edition' of their problems for ccp to answer that consists soley of ui issues, to really hammer home to them exactly how much bother the ui really is."
"hello allas a freighter pilot and jump frieghter pilot i find myself moveing lot`s of items for different members of my corp as im sure you are all aware the freighter and jump frieghter class of ship can only take one type of `can` this makes it slightly difficult to sort everyones gear and make sure they get the right stuff  i have a battered notebook to help what i propose is this1. frieghters and jump freighters should be able to take different types of `cans` or2. frieghters and jump freighters pilots should be able to create their own sub-division in the cargo bay much like a carrier corp hanger however the pilot should be able to name each `tab` i feel this will just make logistics a lot better to organize and save a lot of naffing around"
"afaik, you can already courrier contract yourself the stuff, so it stay in nice packages.but i agree it should be more pratcical. a corporate-hangar separation would be nice."
"just use courier contracts. all the stuff of each person in their very own little package."
"yeh doing that at the moment but it is a little bit annoying haveing to get 50 courrier conrtracts written"
"that also only works if hauling station->station.you can't break courier contracts at a pos."
"just another good reason to lend your support to this"
"spoiler: unplayable lag, losing ships at blackscreens, terrible customer service, etc are not the makings of a premium product.i didn't really want carrier 5, fighters 5, cap ships 5, or dread 5, but apparently i'm going to get them :\"
"do want"
"do it!"
"i suggested something very similar in the ideas forum a few months ago. good idea."
"useless. isk sellers go from: cheapest isk www.asshat.com to cheapest isk at www dot asshat dot com"
"i approve this. i've played wow for quite some time. and what they did was that everytime there were an inappropriate message in the chatbox, players could simply just rightclick the senders name, then choose an option \"report spam\".as far i understood it, if a message received enough spam reports from the community, the player would be checked by the gms, investigated and ultimatly bann the account itself.now i don't suggest ccp to copy this method if it's not wanted. but that's one way how someone did something about it. close to 9000 accounts were banned each month because of this system i believe."
"i agree with the op: speed is broken.the t2 bonus implants break it even further.look at snakes/slaves/crystals - each of these gives a whopping 33%+ and 54%+ to their relevant stat,plus they stack upon dozens upon dozens of modules that affect the same exact ship stat  speed, armor, shield .now, look at the implant sets that have zero modules to affect the stats that they adjust: talismans  energy emission  and halo  signature radius . these recieve bonuses by ship type only, yet the bonuses given by these implants is only 17% and 33% respectively... why so annoyingly low when they can be modified by nothing currently in the game, and the ones with several dozen modifying items recieve disproportionately high bonuses?"
"currently, empire ores are out of whack. veldspar is pretty much the most valuable ore outside 0.0. kernite might be slightly better, although that can be found in hisec as well. the problem is simply that the lowsec ores have been pushed to the side. the drone regions inject quite a lot of midrange  lowsec  minerals into the economy, lowering the price. the solution is to simply make the minerals from lowsec ores more valuable.there are a number of ways to do this. build costs of ships/equipment  all, or just a few like capships  could be redone to put a bit less emphasis on tritanium/pyerite and maybe a bit more on isogen/nocxium. another way is to simply replace the reprocessable alloys on rogue drones with something else...either a real bounty  why wouldn't concord put bounties up on rogue drones? they're a threat as much as any pirate faction , or some droppable reward.raising the price of lowsec minerals would obviously result in a fair bit more profit to be made. \"do i want x isk hour mining in safety or 1.5-2x isk/hour mining in danger?\" rather than \"do i want x isk/hour mining in safety or x isk/hour mining in danger\"."
"supported. the most abundant empire ore should not be more valuable than almost anything outside 0.0. would also like to see more reason to go to lowsec."
"i believe in the invisible hand."
"problem with that is, this issue was created by ccp artificially by the nature of the drone region drops and other factors. that tritanium is so valuable is the result of the invisible hand. while this is fine for the market, it is to the detriment of the game at large since it kills the lowsec areas. might as well remove the belts there.actually....this could be the invisible hand of chribba, making veldspar > *...damn you chribba! you fooled us all!!!!11 buff lowsec ore, plox "
"one needs to find a way to vastly increase the demand for nox and isogen, that is all.it looks like this was tried at one point - look at things like cargo bay bpos - but they numbers required are so inconsequential that it looks like the effort ended before it even reached the level of half-assery."
"they wouldn't even really need to increase the demand for everything...maybe for a few things? capships, for example"
"they wouldn't even really need to increase the demand for everything...maybe for a few things? capships, for example"
"anyone who has spent any time in lowsec can attest to, the constant stream of haulers moving back and forwards running courier missions is out of hand.player corps like metafarmers have tried to eradicate them in certain areas but like cockroaches and flies they return to haul 23/7.every now and again they will disappear as it seems ccp takes action but soon the haulers are back with new ridiculous names that seems as if someone fell asleep on the keyboard or a random combination of two words out of a dictionary.these isk farmers are not only a blight on the eve economy but they are also just plain annoying  as a pirate trying to scan down targets and avoid blobs between the myriad of haulers about it really gets to me my proposal is to remove lowsec courier agents, or at least scrap the courier missions the agents give out in lowsec. it's almost risk free for them  warp to zero and insta undock points  to reap the lp and then cash in for implants which are then sold for isk and then sold to players. if they want to farm isk make them do it the hard way, l4 combat missions where we the players can then hurt their operations.are the lowsec residents, ie. pirates, the only ones who see this problem? am i alone in wanting to see this stopped? i'm hoping the csm can bring this issue before ccp and let's get this sorted.i would also like to know ccps stance on this? what actions they take when finding a hive of haulers etc?"
"something i've been wondering myself, i know it's hard to keep up with the farmers as admins, but cutting off their easiest sources of income is a good start at least."
"agreed, this is out of hand."
"yeah, it's ridiculous. and farmer bs are more fun to pop than farmer haulers, so i'd rather they were doing combat missions."
"couldn't agree more."
"agreed, some places right now are crazy with this problem - more traffic than the amarr emp station going in/out."
"remove lowsec courier agents? **** no. what about those of us that actually use them?"
"/signed."
"so won't they just move to highsec agents? i don't see how this would stop them."
"as far as i know there aren't many l4 agents who give out constant courier missions in highsec.the lp gained from the lowsec agents is what draws them here.for example there are three l4 q20 archive agents in ingunn near where i'm based, in one station. so they grab three missions in one go to maximise lp gain. there's something wrong right therelp is turned into implants, implants to isk and then sold to idiots."
"before some1 whines plz read the whole post :pcaldari have no uber drone boats.this makes sense as minmatar have no uber laser boat  lol this fact is fine and dandy..untill ccp skrewed it up by bringing in carriers.to train for carriers one must train fighters, heavies/meds etc and max out their drone sp...this is fine for every1 as the drone sp aids in other ships that can use drones well ie arb/phoon/domi..to an extent the raven and scorp benefit aswell as they can use meds+lights etc.then we get to heavies/sentries:not one caldari sub-capital ship can field 5  or even 4  heavy drones/sentries.this is rather lame as we must spend many sp's on drones and train t2 heavies/sentries etc for our carriers, therfore losing out on the sp for heavies benefiting less from all that sp in drones.sure we can use them in a dread or carrier but so can all the other races..we just lose out elsewhere..if someone says \"just cross-train >blah<\" then stfu, its not like gallente have to cross-train to get maximum use from their skillpoints./whinenow a solution: plz extend the drone bay of the scorpion to 100-125m and bandwidth  or maybe ferox? dunno, all other cal ships cld be too overpowered  scorp gets primaried anyway so its not like it will make a huge difference to ops etc, else plz bring out a new class of ships for the races that focus on that races \"non-speciality\"  for want of a better word  ie drone boat for cal, missile boat for gallente etcthoughts?edit: ok heres something that keeps coming up:\"u dont need heavies/sentries for a carrier\"and \"caldari shldnt use gallente weapons it ruins diversity etc\"explained:minmatar can use 5 heavies, they arent specced for dronesammar can use 5 heavies they arent specced for dronesgallente of coursewhy not cladari?if u say because \"there opposite to caldari\"then why is the eris, lach and ares a missile boat?and the reason im talking bout heavies is because it wld be stupid to put so much sp into drones such as interfacing/adv interfacing etc for carriers and not train for heavies/sentries, but cal are gimped as we cant field them in a single sub-cap cal shiphope that clrs that confusion up"
"bump for love"
"so, along with taking away from some of the racial diversity in eve, you are proposing to make people who fly caldari sub-capitals have to invest more sp's to get the most out of their ships?i'm not sure you have thought this through.also, this should be in the ideas forum."
"agreed - whilst it would be nice to have drones, it wouldnt help eve, overall balance, and so on. and yes i fly a chimera, been through the pain, love drones, and would love a drone bay on my falcon. but not in the best interests sadly."
"i think ccp could toss a few caldari ships 15m3 drone bays, but honestly there's bigger fish to fry as far as caldari pvp issues.i'm hoping ccp will look at caldari ships and do what they did for amarr, if it's half as good as the boosts they got.. hell, maybe we'll even see a khanid technology exchange and get a nice fancy laser ship that's better than a zealot, mmmmmmmaybe!!"
"this isn't an issue in the slightest."
"thought this through plenty, plz refer below"
"cal dont have a single drone boat.gallente have a t2 missile boat:erishow is this such a huge diversity-reducing change???edit: typo"
"yes please :-  add a sentry dron bonused ship for caldari  or rework the ferox to be one . like bay/bandwidth - 250/100, 10% to sentry drone hp and damage, shield resist bonus as is.1. long range as caldari speciality - check2. gallente still have the best drone ships - checkyou can even add the optional sentry optimal instead of the damage bonus to keep it to spec :- "
"you're being serious, aren't you?"
"while i don't see this as a major issue--as mentioned, caldari are broken  in the bad way for them  in many worse ways--but i could see the scorpion getting some drone love since it has more of a utility role as it stands.got my thumbs up, but i don't really think it'll 'have legs.'"
"eris:interdictors skill bonus: 5% bonus to rocket and light missile thermal damage and 10% bonus to interdiction sphere launcher rate of fire per levelquite seriousand im not asking for this because i want an uber drone ship, i just want to be able to utilise all the sp that will go into carrier training:look at it this way, i train many skills such as interfacing etc for fightersit wld be rahter silly of me to ignore the other types of drone with such good support skills for thembut sadly its gimped as i cant use heavies/sentries on any sub-cap cal ship"
"you're under the impression that you need t2 heavies and sentries to fly a carrier. you don't - the only subcapital drone skills you need to get into fighter-equipped carriers are drones and drone interfacing. both of those are useful to max on subcapital caldari ships - plenty of ships have a 25m3 drone bay, and a ship with any drone bay at all benefits from drone interfacing, being one of the biggest-impact skills in the game. as such, this is a wholly unnecessary change, and a bad one at that."
"well, unless you fly black ops you aren't going to use all those carrier sp's anyway.lots of caldari ships use drones, and if anything the fact that they use less of them makes the skills all the more important to maximise their effectiveness.i can't believe you are using a gallente ship using light missiles as a justification for caldari ships using a full load of heavy or sentry drones either - i honestly thought you must have been joking about the eris."
"if you dont feel that training drone skills pays off for you, cause you play caldari, dont train them... there are other skills im pretty sure...and scorpion is awesome buffer-bait."
"yes to a caldari drone boat."
"i like the idea very much, but limiting them to cap ship only is limiting their use in bs fleets and smaller gangs. keeping ur idea in mind, perhaps creating a different sized bomb for each sized ship e.g less powerful bomb for bs \"anti bs bomb\", while keeping the current dmg of bombs to cap only. also is it wise that defenders would be able to destory a bomb once it is on the hull of a ship? smart bombs already work well against them."
"bomb in their current role are definately useful... but they're just simply broken.the launching ship should be immune to its bomb.and they should only cost as much as a frigate  500k, tops  considering they're lucky if they can kill a frigate.the 'defender missile' launcher idea has a lot of merit, however, i agree. eve is in dire need of a method to make missile countermeasures useful.a - such as making them effective for the entire squad/wing/fleet that the missile screen pilot is in.b - give defender missiles an insane rof bonus  so you could actually load them into a siege launcher and achieve 2.5s rof to support an entire fleet .c - have defenders respond to bombs  sticky or otherwise  and drones as well as missiles."
"i take it that the lack of support for this issue is simply cause so many have realised that the claw sucks and never botherd to train for it in the first place"
"either way, you shouldn't need a command ship to properly utilize long-range scrams  which the ship has a bonus for ."
"scram range > locking range is kinda wierd.support the sport."
"then by your reasoning caldari missile boats should also get a targeting range bonus since their weapon ranges are usually past their targeting range?"
"homes in roids.that simple.except not : my idea is find a roid, and custom-mine it to your specifications. it could be carved to contain some ammo, a few ships, or maybe even a manufacturing/mining facility depending on its size.perhaps others could stumble upon/destroy them accidentally with mining lasers, making them a more volatile investment than a posgo ahead, bash this idea or boost it. i just like the idea of a cheaper alternative to pos's, the cost of which is intimidating to many.edit: i realize that i am bringing an old idea up, but it needs to be given a fresh show to the candidates. i posted on the old thread : "
"i know they are planning to move belts from being static to having to explore for them. perhaps one of the roids generated for these dynamic belt could have the 'habitable' flag set on it. that way you can a  control the number of them in the universe  i'd hope that these would be seeded even in high-sec ; and b  they would remain hidden once the belt had been mined out.although, to make them i'd suggest it would take a significant amount of time, resources, and skills - which would create a niche market for miners, creating these homos and selling them on for profit."
"hells yes"
"if i may suggest, directing your attention to the following thread: s.p.o.s.s - that really fleshes out the idea in earnest, and gives credit to the suggestion. the only sad part, that although \"player housing\" has been on the drawing board for a very long time, very little has come of it. i might also add, with no small degree of humility, that it showed up there shortly after my informal conversation with oveur, during june of 2006, who agreed that it \"might\" be something to explore, although not immediately. anyway, it can tie in perfectly with the, hopefully, upcoming pos overhaul.... i would fully support it! of course!"
"this is the first time i've looked at this forum, so i apologize if this idea has been discussed before.i think it would be cool if there were more commands i could give to my drones. specifically, i'd like to be able to tell them to automatically focus on a certain class of ship, or to attack ships currently using an e-war mod on me, ect. these commands could even be made available by a certain mod/rig/skill. good idea, bad idea?"
"hell no!"
"oh and omber shows up in several missions, namely downing the slavers, and enemies abound. kernite is available in caldari lowsec and amarr highsec. and looking at my local area  caldari, the citadel  i can buy the 8000 kernite for 2.36million, and the 10k omber is under 1mil.that implant comes nowhere near close to the cost of the ore"
"turning it down does nothing for your standings....."
"3ish jumps in a inty/shuttle spend 3mil for ore, get +4 implant, either sell to buy orders for 10ish mil, or wait and sell for 15ish mil.  unless its a cha implant, then you can sell it for 4.5mil to buy orders, or 7ish mil on the market "
"akita, never before have i felt as much hatred for anyone as i do for you right now suggesting this. there are many specific and very graphic ideas going through my head to thank you for your contribution, many of which i assume  and sincerely hope  would cause you sufficient pain and agony that you would wish your life to end. however, being the well-trained amarr that i am i would take extra-special care to ensure that your life would extend even past the span it would have under optimal conditions, entirely for the purpose of causing you unending and insufferable pain.i have enough trouble hauling it one jump, thankyouverymuch, and despite having lvl 5 mining skills, i only have them to help my corps if only absolutely necesasry."
"please, please, please, please tell me how you fit 8000m3 into an inty. please."
"i buy it at the station where the storyline mission is at"
"alas, my storyline agent is a waste of space, in some dead-end backward crappy damned system. closest i can get is one jump."
"[idea] improving visual notifications and integrating sound into the fleet broadcast system.have aura tell us when a fleet broadcast is broadcast.for example, if the fleet/wing/squad commander broadcasts to align to the khanid prime stargate, aura will let you know. something like \"align request broadcasted\" . this could happen for all broadcasts. another example; the commander broadcasts a target, you then hear aura say something like: \"target has been broadcasted\" .improve the visual notifications for broadcasts in addition, the blinking of the broadcast window - both when minimized and open - is hardly sufficient i think. i feel this needs to be improved. perhaps along with improved blinking and aura letting you know about the broadcast, you also could have a black box of text appear in the usual position informing you of the broadcast too. the current broadcast system feels unfinished the bottom line i'm trying to get across i guess is that basically the broadcast system ccp's got in place is great, but it feels unfinished. the ideal situation is that, even if you are not looking for the broadcasts you will still be aware of them when they occur. when your commander broadcasts in fleet, unless you're blind and deaf, it should be basically impossible to miss the broadcast. currently this is not the case."
"as long as it's optional, this seems fine to me."
"sounds good.i think that whenever a new broadcast is made, the back of the broadcast window should flash white for a second, just long enough to get your attention."
"yeah its rather easy to miss broadcasts atm. auditory notifications would help  should be pretty easy to implement to . the flashing the window is a good idea as well."
"as its so easy surely you won't mind sharing this insight with us?in 'a couple more seconds' you have no time to warp anywhere...so in the situation where you have multiple pos, belts, and moons on scanner - potentially even in the same 5 degree - how do you do this?"
"-hop into system.-scan 360-if ship on scan...180-90-60-15. multiple celestials on scan? check range  smart pilots have either an ov setting specifically with celestials or check via f11 map ranges from jump-in prior to moving in .-if multiple celestials i"
"thank you for that and yes, i agree dimwit's raven makes life easier - assuming he doesn't have multiple ships in space with his name on them. i'm talking about tracking down people who have the basic intelligence to watch local at least once a minute and rename their ship though.i have an overview with celestials and already do pretty much exactly what you suggest. it works but it takes time, and time is something there is precious little of when trying to catch someone before they warp out. when you see 30 or more ships and multiple online pos on scan then filtering out the signal from the noise becomes nigh on impossible.it also doesn't answer the problem of being able to engage one hostile with multiple others in local and have some information on what is happening around you. if someone is coming to help their friend i like to have at least some advance notice of their ship types and numbers to help me decide whether to stay or to bail. yes by comparing lists and seeing new ships arrive you can get some info, but if they are already in the pos and in scan range you are basically screwed as you cannot tell if it is occupied or not without either going and looking or waiting until they come and kill you."
"thems the breaks really. hit the target you wish to and either yourself or wingman spams short range scan looking for inbounds. this is called \"creating an engagement\". and to counter the obvious potential trap...don't send in all the km *****s from the adjacent system-with any luck  and a handy falcon pilot helps  and a bit of patience on the delay bit-cue \"ride of the valks\" as you proceed to knock pos-hugging lemmings onto your killboard.but this is tactical...nothing to do with the relative ease of scanning down a given target in cluttered systems.and the \"dimwit\" example is just one nuance. i usually keep local minimized and only pay attention to large number spikes  primarily because i don't care who i am attacking  ."
"i feel special now! all of the high-priority items just get a \"meh, who cares?\" from me. yey, i'm different.also - i miss linux client. i'm so way different."
"on the forums of the galaxy of eve many things age. fittings are shunned due to nerfs. discussions of old issues that have been fixed surely take up half of the forum database. the way ccp has been keeping their bandwidth cunsumption to a reasonably low level is to lock old threads, thereby reducing the number of posts requiring large amounts of data transfer. however i, in my occasional forum browsing, as well as i am sure many others have become irked due to the prevelance of said locked threads, and our wish to post on them. the other issue i have mentioned are threads aged past the point of use. threads about old nos-domi setups, damp-ganks, and why to always fit an ecm are among these out-of-date discussions. i would like candidates to adress this issue. there are approaches to update this system that could be made. perhaps a voting system or moderator decision to delete threads beyond their useful age. what i am primarily searching for is a way to decrease the amount of locked threads, maybe by ridding the database of them permanently. i eagerly await that candidates' responses."
"this post has been cleared of inappropriate content.regards,the eve online moderation team"
"excellent. while i'd still like to see a low moved to a mid  and fittings compensated to match, just like i'd want with many caldari ships *cough* raven *cough* , this is most definitely a step in the right direction."
"[x] the ninja salvager should not be aggro'd to the mission runner after the first wreck is salvaged, because i support ccp's current ruling that salvage is free for anyone with the proper tools to retrieve from wrecks.further more loot should be available to everyone and all wrecks should be able to be tractored by everyone.... ok since that will never happen i do want to say a couple things. after spending a weekend mining omber and finally wanting to shoot myself in the head i started looking for something new and fun. i read a post about ninja salvaging and thought i would give it a try. after spending six hours training up the skills and pulling together the necessary equipment i headed out to the nearest high sec mission hub to give it a test run.after waiting 6 minutes from my scan i see a raven, ok here we go, and an acceleration gate my first try! i jump in and immediately warped out. n00bs are not use to seeing quiet that many red cross hairs. i went back to the forums and discovered i wouldn't be agro'd so i went back with my salvager and the mission runner was done with that room. well all said and done i made about 15 mil on that first mission. it was a bit of beginners luck, the next mission area i only made 5 and it took me a couple attempts to find a gate. the last one of the evening was really fun because the runner came back in an iteron to loot and salvage. it was fun because my slasher could fly too the wrecks and salvage them faster than his tractor beam could pull them in. ok that being said i think there are some untruths being told. -no it is not hard to salvage mission runners, period.-i've been to null sec, running missions is way easier than running into a gate camp. most people i know run missions because it is fast easy money, not because of the fantastic skill of challenge mission running represents.i think both of those truths are really important for everyone to understand. one of my favorite comments i've read so far is on the ownership of wrecks. you own those wrecks? for those who think that please go run a mission in low sec. first your pretty raven will get blown to bits, next all those wrecks will not only get salvaged but also looted and the one wreck you actually did own will also get salvaged and looted. of course you already know that don't you, thats why you run missions in empire.i'm really surprised more people don't take advantage of all this. i know pirates in 0.0 who would love to pew pew a player in a pve bs. why don't they just scan down mission runners and start stealing their loot, ravens are so much prettier on killboards than rifters.for those of you that think that all players salvage their wrecks run a 360 degree directional scan in any system at max range and see how many wrecks show up. do it again an hour later, my guess is a sizable portion of missions don't get salvaged. now i'm in no way against making salvaging mission runners wrecks more difficult / challenging. by all means make agro from rats open. i'm even down with the whole staking a claim thing, i don't think it should be a super easy one click option though. i think your claim should last 15 minutes. after that the wreck comes open to claim by anyone who right clicks the wreck and that claim should last for another 15 minutes. finally wrecks would persist 1 hour after the finish of the last claim. i can just imagine the lazy mission runner sitting back letting his  or her  hammerhead ii's fight the good fight and then suddenly realizing all their wrecks are turning yellow :- i also think the claim system should work for loot. if you are to busy / lazy to keep whats yours, maybe you don't want it that bad after allwell that's all for now, if you see me out there while you are missioning say hi, and if you ask nicely maybe i'll leave your wrecks alone... maybe."
"i'd like to see where you read that, since it's fundamentally wrong.you can be aggro'd by the npc ships - don't fool yourself. it happens to me all the time.  i see you're flying a slasher, which i need to commend you on, as it's the fastest minmatar frigate and the best racial ship for ninja salvaging.  the good news is, because you're using a frigate, the larger ships  bc's and bs's  in the spawn will do very little damage if you keep moving.that being said, if you ever warp in on a l5 mission, be prepared to run away fast. i got hit with 800+ dps warping in to a l5 by the environment!  damn gas clouds. we're hiring!  ...and we're always looking for good pvp'ers. you want action? looking for targets? we've had 18 wardecs in three months. tchell dahhn alt spotted!oh wait."
"i want to be able to salvage wrecks without being flagged as a criminal  being a mostly law-abiding federation resident , especialy wrecks abandoned on purpose. however i don't want to tick people of by taking salvage they might want. my imperfect guideline is that if no one else is hovering around the wreck area, they're fair game.i would not be against implimenting, for example, some sort of timer so that when a person leaves the vicinity of a wreck and stays away for x amount of time, it is considered abandoned. after that point salvage of the wreck is 1st come, 1st served with no flagging."
"if you set the timer for 30 seconds, and set the distance at 5000m, i'm all for this idea."
"i over simplified that. i didn't mean that you couldn't be agro'd period just that you won't get insta agro'd as soon as you jump in. plenty of time to make a book mark and wait for things to settle down a bit. i might have to take you up on this at some point, i'm not quiet ready to start pvp yet but my ceo just told me i had to stop ninja salvaging or i'm out. so i'm kind of riding the fence right now, we'll see where the next couple of weeks take me :- "
"i beg to differ. well meta drones may not be the best thing but it's still worth while especially because those drones are considered exotic goods. faster and more durable drones, it's certainly something carrier pilots want. i know i do.i woldnt mind acrheology sites in the drone regions either. some better divercity in combat plexes, sure. but i can live with all that. the thing is, it takes literaly hundereds of jumps to find anything of value. i'm not talkin about some carebear empire space crap here, this is 0.0. deep 0.0 far away from any friendly pos or outpost. sites respawn slow, and there are always only few in every region. it takes a while to find them and sometimes u need to go in hostile space to do so. i rearly do expoloration for profit. i probably wouldnt bother with exploration if i happen to live in any other region outside of drone space. gravity sites are worthless in 0.0, especially if u are part of a sov holding alliance. its cheaper and u can actually make more cash if u mine in a belt. plexes are fine but if u consider the time u'd need to find em, you'll be better off ratting in a belt. anomalies, well even worse then plexes. drone radar sites however provide u with something unique. it is the only type of exploration site that i'm interested in. the real value of an 'augmented' drone is about 10 to 15 times the value of the regular t2 version. what is real value u ask? real value includes the matirials, skills and manifacture time, aswell as the time u had to spend finding the bpc. if you include the rarity factor the price may even shoot as high as 30 times the standart t2 version. it is so rediculously expensive that its virtually impossible to make any money out of it.to that extend 0.0 exploration is rarely done for cash. yes the few explorers lucky enough to have ladar sites in their space can make a fortune on drug production, but thats about it.to be frankly honest with you guys i would even mind a dedicated exploration ship. why you ask? well the answer is quite simple but there is more to it. you see i live in an established sov holding alliance. infact i can go 100 jumps deep in 0.0 space and never even see a single pilot on my way. if u really think about it 0.0 space is big. really big. infact it is too big for the pilots inhabiting it. there is a simple reason for that. most pilots are scared of 0.0 and even if some find the courage to go and check it out, pirates are likely to catch the courageous carebear in a gate camp, in lowsec or the first 0.0 system.here's my answer to why i would mind a dedicated exploration ship. its not a big deal for me if a single carebear covops sneaks pas the pirates, but it would be a big deal for me if an exploration ship makes it through. it means more competition on my exploration routes and i just dont want any ps i do exploration for fun, when i want to unwind from all the fleet combat  aka lagg till u wake up in station , and pos warfare. i do not explore for cash, although thats a nice side effect."
"well as i posted in another thread, exploration ships do make sence to a degree. however, as it stands now exploration isn't really the best way to earn a living, exept for few rather exploration dedicated regions  drug production etc . it's fun to do for some diverse, but 10/10 plexes that drop the good complex modules can't and shouldnt be soloable in my opinion. as for the empire explorers, you got stations everywhere, put a cruiser around the systems that u explore and u're done.exploration ships in 0.0 however make much more sence since the outposts are scattered over great distances. however the last thing i want to see around my exploration routes is carebears runing exploration ships, stealing my loot!i know it sounds selfish, but, well... thats eve isnt it? i already need to compete against other explorers of my alliance and naibor alliances. the good stuff is rare and there are enough ppl going after it already.exploration takes far too few skills to work, compare it to mining, combat or industry and u'll see what i mean. maybe thats why it's so popular, but you dont need a dedicated ship for it. mining takes atleast 2 ships, solo combat is a myth... well solo steath bombers and recons can gank stupid pilots and that really is it. ratting in the drone regions takes atleast 2 ships to work decently  even if u fly a marauder .even if ccp brings out a dedicated exploration ship i'd probalby keep dualboxing my buzzard and ishtar pilots to do exploration."
"its called high sec. . ."
"aother idea is to make learning skills a separate over time skilling system in which you can train one while other skills train normally at normal speed."
"all that needs to happen is that people stop telling noobs: \"train all learning skills before doing anything else\".instead tell them to first train up simple rank 1 & 2 skills which let them fly better ships and do fun stuff. once you start learning more advanced skills, then you can train up the basic learning skills and later on the more advanced learning skills."
"what he saidedit: i fail"
"just an idea here new skills that need to be in eveship customization 1-5rank one allows the repainting of ship to matte finishrank two allows repainting of ship to gloss finishrank three metallic finishrank four pearlecent finishrank five allows the mixing of finishesship hull customization 1-5rank one allows use of striping on shipsrank two allows the use of basic vinyl type designsrank three allows the use of fading vinyl type designsrank four allows the use of embossments on shipsrank five allows the use of body moodifications ie. cool fins to make my hyperion look like a 58 caddythese skills could all be under industry and it could be possible to purchase and invent through bpo and bpcs the colors and mods to the ships. contracts could go out for people to modify ships, etc. this could be a whole new industry in eve.just an idea to throw out there but i'm sure many pilots would like the ability to at least somewhat individualize there ships and distinguish them from all the other ships flying about eve.anyway just throwing the idea out there to see if ccp might get behind it and maybe drop out a sweet patch with these options."
"hmm i'd really love to see that kind of a feature...unfortunetly that will only add up to the lagg issues of the game"
"ship would look different from each other = thumbs upmore lag = thumbs downsilly coloured ships all around the place  more pinkish thoraxes etc  = thumbs downbesides afaik the game mechanics support this."
"ops willpower to destroy farmer cans is small apparently..."
"just discovered the meeting notes today  pretty forum btw, jade ...just wanted to beg, plead, and otherwise cajol the csm to plug the citadel torp issue. it was mentioned in passing in the minmatar caps issue  so it appears to be rolled up into it , but while it's a nuisance for minmatar caps it's crippling for caldari caps.thanks!"
"chatpron says absolutely nothing useful. not even a remote discussion of alternatives to local.csm answer=sweep it under the rug and hope it goes away. but do carry on csm-believing you actually represent the playerbase.i'm not trolling. just calling you all out as i see it. excuses and inattention=continued fail.but at least you might be able to post awesome npc wrecking shots ad naseum in player bios again . because thats really important."
"ok, it just goes to tell me you didn't read the chatlog then. i'm not saying it was a troll post. i'm saying you are setting up strawman arguments, which is really silly. someone like yourself can do better than that. but i'm totally speechless over how successfully you called out all csm members for.... oh wait, another strawman argument. you are making assumptions and you are stating things like they were fact, but you have no ground for them at least you are yet to prove it . i mean, how exactly has it been swept under the rug? i think it's silly you even suggest that.let me point you to the chat log, which you of course read:if you call that sweeping it under the rug, then i think you should run for csm next time and show us how to do it."
"to \"set up a straw man\" or \"set up a straw man argument\" is to describe a position that superficially resembles an opponent's actual view but is easier to refute, then attribute that position to the opponent  for example, deliberately overstating the opponent's position .get your definitions correct pal. the only \"straw men\" i see are on the csm. to wit:\"bane glorious > local annoys everyone at times, but i'm not really sure if discussion on changing local is going to get anywhere; ideas are one thing but i'd prefer a more unstructured discussion, so i'll have to say nay, sorry\"i have read the chatlog...in it's entirety. quote above is just a representative sample reinforcing lack of care or concern on the part of the csm. true...you and jc may have voted yes to further discussions-yet neither of you back your yes reasons with any sembalance of ideas in order to make it an actual debate over pros-v-cons.while ccp may not like the use of local as an intel tool-they are also two-faced in this regard as the last formal comment by a dev regarding the current state of the onboard scanner is they \"are not prepared to look into it at this time\" or words to that effect  you can find that particular exact quote yourself...i'm not doing your work for you .with regard to local as intel-v-scanner...the main issue you fail to acknowledge is pilots in eve are generally lazy and can't be asked to learn to use the scanner properly  and lavista...i know from personal experience that you fail at that too . here...have a further silly comment from somone who obviously has no clue how to use the directional scanner properly  or when to use probes for that matter :\"inanna zuni > it is unreasonable to expect every ship to install a scan launcher, so it needs to be the ship one. if the ship one then will be affected by skills which means new players at a disadvantage where everyone gets local info at same moment currently.\"just wow .but perhaps with some simple tweaks...gee...the scanner currently can give automatic range values to celestial objects-perhaps allowing the same functionality for non-cloaked ships might encourage folks to use what is a simple 360-180-90-15 camera rotate process a bit easier? as opposed to the current stupidity of having to manually input ranges?but no...lets agree not to discuss things. or dare to discuss any of the valid player suggestions/options for improvement. and ignore the other threads with well-written reasoning and plenty of support in favor of improving bio's and other such nonesense that have no effect on actual gameplay . now don't get me wrong. yes i am being harsh. and blunt. but i don't bull**** around and don't appreciate being spoon-fed bloated chatlogs as representative examples of you csm folks doing your jobs properly.tbh it would have been better had the csm been left as a simple bit of player oversight regarding potential ccp-employee involvement in the game rather than the current self-interest group it has morphed into.and me run for csm? cheers...but no thanks. there are far better players than me who actually care about the game and how it's played. and should i wish to roll up to iceland and visit jinx and the new ally smelter...i would do it on my own dime and not at the expense of other players money .keep it simple-you folks should be about the gameplay in the context of eve being a \"cold, harsh, uncaring environment\". period."
"congratulations, you found wiki. what is your point? it doesn't change the nature of your above posts.no, because the idea being discussed around, was all written out in the submission template which was sebmitted before the meeting. huh? i'm sorry, are you the bone i used to fly with? as far as i'm aware, i know pretty well how to use the directional scanner. and what is your point with that anyways? maybe we should dedicate a whole csm meeting to your ideas? i mean, they seem to be more important than the rest of the community's ideas."
"i'll return when you  and fellow csm members  actually have something useful to say regarding game play in a \"cold, harsh, unforgiving environment\".i'm not holding my breath. put that in your hoped-for expanded bio.i am also fully expecting to see this thread locked and deleted for daring to ask questions and challenge the csm to actually be useful regarding game play."
"why should it be locked? that would be stupid.anyways, what you didn't see in those logs, was that for half an hour before the meeting, we were discussing several different topics, where several csm members were advocating the harsh environment.also, i think looking into the pillaging outpost suggestion, could be what you are looking for.but i'm all for the unforgiving environment. but bone, how do you suggest we should do it? what should change?unless you post on the assembly hall, we can't raise it. if you do post there, i will read it and answer. so please, do post."
"you know what ruleofthebone, its a real shame you aren't prepared to run for csm office yourself because i'd actually love to see you win a seat and get told face to face by the rest of the committee to stop acting like a whinging prat and try bring some actual adult discussion to the table. grow up and treat people with a bit of respect and then you'll deserve some in return. since the csm process began i've seen nothing but cynicism and snippy one-liners from you on the process and game experience of those candidates who went on to win the election and frankly you can jump in the lake for my money. don't lecture me about eve's \"cold, harsh, unforgiving environment\", thats the platform i ran the election on, thats the consistent position i've been arguing and advocating in every meeting online and face-to-face and thats the precise issue i spent 20 hours in discussion with the ccp officials promoting and brainstorming during the iceland trip. the difference between you and me rule is that at the end of this six months i'm going to have a voting record showing i kept my word and did exactly what i promised i'd do whereas you'll still be sat on the sidelines throwing your toys out of the pram and saying its all a waste of time because some other players in the game care about things you don't think are important.and don't try to claim some kind of \"pirate-corp\" wellspring of information on all things dark and dangerous - i've been there, experienced these things, played the small unit pvp game for five years and learned enough about this environment to make informed decisions and cast votes for the benefit of this style of gameplay in the formal environment of the csm.if you want things done in this csm then you need to count your blessings that you got some csm reps who understand these issues and are prepared to go the extra mile to make things happen rather than stamping your foot like a spoiled brat and making wild accusations against those that actually care about the gameplay styles you claim to value.you don't think the bio length and fw impact on the storyline are important to this game? frankly screw you. but fortunately i'm not such a short-sighted prejudiced player as you evidently are. i can appreciate a game environment where longer biographies/better dynamic rp storyline and reformation of the omnipotent local chat problem both have a place on the csm agenda and however much i think you are a knuckle-dragging whinger for attacking the decisions that other players care about, its not going to prejudice me against the things that you and other players care about too."
"i'll make sure i put this into my soon-to-be un-nerfed bio.also....tl;dr"
"what a predictable answer.just a shame you prove his point completely right."
"there should be a very own forum for posts regarding factional warfare. at the moment most posts seem to be moved to caod, which in no manner seems optimal. with it's own forum, pilots would perhaps be more inclined to post griefing, whining etc which gives us that great community feeling  tm ."
"/signed x millions"
"why one caldari ship needs a bigger drone bay"
"omg yes! i soooooo hate having to reset my overview on a weekly basis because some lag issue, sync issue, or bugged login fraged or outright deleted my overview settings!!!yes yes yes!!!!"
"long overdue."
"omg yes"
"raised the issue and it was supported by the csm. i think our best idea was probably some kind of variety freight container that mimics the performance of a ship maintenance bay on a cap ship. ie allows assembled fits inside but no cargo. you'd then load these \"transit freight\" containers into the freighter and bingo. anyway, we'll be adding it to the formal agenda for the discussions with ccp and fingers crossed."
"ccp needs to introduce a new storage container specifically designed to carry assembled ships.ship transportation can. 120k m/3, and can carry a fully assempled ship. assembled ships should maintain the same 'volume' as they do when packaged, but can only be transported using a transport can  i.e. with a freighter . the can has the same limitations as a carrier: only ammo/drones can be in the cargo of the ship being transported."
"maybe we should start a questions pile - simple yes/no/soon answers only required from ccp"
"this seems like it should be pretty simple to give a 1%, 3%, and 5% bonus to the time it takes to get prints out of the oven or some such. i definitely support this thread, ccp should not be allowed to forget about this issue for over a year."
"an update would be good."
"my name is displayed, and i approve this message. ;- "
"it would be good to see closure for this issue."
"id like too see this fixed."
"yup, got the #1 version plugged in and would really like it to do something worthwhile."
"just another perfect example of: ccp's promises made > ccp's promises kept. and what ccp's interpretation of \"soon\" means."
"yeah would be nice to have this little implant in my head do something besides using up a slot."
"i petitioned and got the implant removed. it is in a can somewhere. honestly a invention speed plant seem pretty useless, but anything is better than nothing."
"bump for love"
"2 of my accounts will be expiring next month unless this policy is reversed."
"signed"
"i continue to like some implementation of the command center idea, along with adjustments in the wardec cost in some way.personally i see no issue with the system accumulating the combat sp of each character in the corps  you could just sum gunnery and missiles for example  and skewing the fee accordingly. fighting your equal costs x amount, fighting your inferior costs x times 2, and fighting your superior costs x divided by 2, etc. numbers to be decided by ccp.you could even make it more complicated and factor character age and wealth in. rich industrialists should be able to hire protection, after all. after all, only ccp needs to know all this data - you as a declarer just get an isk value, and it's not going to lag much since how often are wars declared?on top of that, you could have as an option to halve your wardec cost at the cost of no podding  remember this is a bribe to concord, so just as ship security hits are less than podding security hits, they can take no podding wars less seriously and so charge less . this enables honourable pirates to work more cheaply  yes they do exist , allows you to teach a lesson inexpensively, and so on. you can still do the real thing if you want to.corp-hopping is only lame to the person who can't find targets. i believe low-sec and null-sec are full of potential targets, many of whom can fight back. it's an intended and provided way to escape a war you don't care about or wish to fight. if you stopped just declaring on every corp because of personal vendettas, your problem would be solved.i believe ccp made a point of saying that continued grief towards a particular individual again and again is not on."
"war decs need to be looked at, to be sure.most notably... against npc corporations in which the scourge of macros hide!!! there are zero deterrants to force these violators out into the open  such as limited skill availabilities, mission agents, and ship types .also, and much much much more important:war flags should be persistant on a per-pilot basis to bring an end to corp/alliance jumping to escape/avoid a war.should an individial quit a corp after the declaration has been placed they will still be a valid war target through the duration of that declaration cycle  1 week . if they join another player corp that corp does not assume the war, but can defend the target once they have been engaged by the valid aggressor.likewise with corporations fleeing alliances to dodge a war declaration.this will cement corporation solidarity once players know that quitting their corp/alliance will not make them invulnerable to the war."
"i wish i could vote twice lol"
"its my understanding that chribba has some isk, so i will support this thread for 50 million isk  price can be negotiated  up anyways  . alternatively i will not support this thread for 150 million isk  non negotiable ."
"so, how did the discussion go?edit: nevermind, found the transcript of the chat here.looks like it's back to the drawing board."
"well the bad news is that the csm initially voted it down: 18:41 +after discussion the issue was supported by lavista, jade, dierdra val, opposed by hardin, bane, inanna, tusko, serenity, ank.however, tusko does want another attempt to get the issue onto the table with a more detailed proposal that he's working on and we should get to vote on that prior to the end of august online meeting with ccp.i'm disappointed we couldn't get the issue in principle on the agenda last sunday but as you can see from the meeting chatlog there are quite split opinions on the issue. i however remain convinced its a vital issue and we need it raised to ccp so am eagerly looking forward to tusko's take on the problem."
"thanks for the answer!from the transcript i see that possibly 2 votes may reverse, provided the proposed implementation becomes more attractive.where is the current proposal  the \"document\"  published and/or being discussed?"
"have to say no to this one.no local = very, very empty universe. not only do the 'locals' not know who's come into the system unless they task some poor slub to stare at the gate s  in infinitum, but the 'hostiles' don't know if there's anyone there to bother with.this leaves both parties stuck spamming their scan buttons hoping for a hit before they show up on the other guy's scan spam.even in empire space this would leave eve full of... solo pilots, because that's how they would feel wherever they went when their only visal contact with other players would be at gates or stations."
"carebears love their local. i guess if you allready have 10 alts in hulks in a belt it would be hard to manage #11 in a scout ship. how about we remove local and get a \"save\" function implementet. *endofflame*having something like a multispec probe that detects new ships in system, would definitly be enough to replace \"local\" as it is now. then again if you have a probe doing exactly what local did, why get rid of it?or you enable a local chat for alliances who hold sov in system i.e. u got a system scanner at your pos, and your \"sov local\" shows you all people in system. introduce some sort of hacking module, allowing enemy players to link onto the system scanner for 10-30 sec, hacking should be detectable though. just some ideas."
"the problem isn't that local is so powerful, it's that the scanner sucks so bad.removing local in it's current form without making the proper fixes to the scanning system would be a huge mistake. if i had five minutes to come up with a better solution, here's what i would do:1  highsec - nothing at all. social channels in .5+ systems should remain as they are. the only parties to be affected by a change here would be corporations at war, but in this case they shouldn't be given any additional penalties/benefits while in an otherwise high security area.2  lowsec - only show pilots with standings in local -- positive or negative. neutrals boost the population counter, but their portraits don't appear on the local toolbar until they speak in local, are scanned or seen on grid. this will place more emphasis on personal relationships, as well as keeping better track of who your friends and enemies are.3  nullsec/no sovereignty - local population count only. no portraits appear in local until they speak, are scanned, or appear on grid. this would boost player interaction by hailing new pilots in system, to give them an opportunity to reveal themselves as friendly or not a threat. scanners get \"pings\" that show gate activation. 4  nullsec/sovereignty - in systems where your alliance has sov, the intel displayed in local approaches that of highsec, but only for your alliance leaving attacking forces would be at a severe disadvantage. forces enemies' scouts to be more diligent about collecting intel. also boosts the importance of having sovereignty."
"i completly agree local chat should get either removed or just not show who is inside the system. i have nothing not previously said to add though,"
"i support destruction of outpost with the fact that the attacker doesnt recieve anything maybe some salvage !just make it so that when alliance clicks \"terminate button\" on an outpost it should let all the processes in it finish and then he has to click that button again to finalize it. sov may not change hands during that time."
"so if i thumbs up here it means i'm not supporting getting a reload all or switch all ammo button? where do i go for that?"
"i endorse this, but perhaps with some modifications.someone once suggested linking weapons into weapon groups that could be loaded and unloaded as a single unit. they would also fire as a single unit linked to a single f key.this would reduce the server calls from 8 individual weapons down to 1 or 2."
"supported... i used to have a machariel but since the dps and the reload stuff after 10 shots is well .... .................end of it ... i bought a nightmare"
"not supported.like is said in all the anti nano threads.. dont like it, train a different race. tough cookies.or maybe bring all your other ship classes down a notch or two so when a roaming gang enters the system it is'nt all minmatar ships...then, maybe then minmatar bs's will be deserving of a boost.you've got the best ships for all forms of pvp except fleet fights... take your cake and enjoy it."
"tracking sucks, checkedrange sucks, checkalpha sucks, checkedvery small clip size, checkedfitting issues, checked  mwd + 6x1400 on a tempest requires a grid upgrade by default arties + lag = usless guns, after 10 rounds of emp you can go make cofee.i support this? hell yeah"
"agreed, but not only for large arty.for all artillery.railguns do more dps from greater distances and have 1/3 the rof. okay, so they use cap, but when it comes to long range combat cap is not so much an issue."
"one needs way more than a 5% clip increase. 5% would increase your ammo count on emp l from 10 rounds to 10.5.artillery needs to be boosted in all ways."
"i agree that artillery should be looked at.i don't agree with the solutions that many of the players have suggested. some of these demands seem to suggest that arty should hit dps as hard as missiles. no \"hitbox\" style weapon should do the same damage as missiles, not without the same kind of hefty drawbacks that missiles  especially big missiles  suffer in pvp."
"wow.. didn't think this many people would reply to this thread lol. have you all the story i wrote about them? they could work... i mean there are gas clouds in the game that do damage at random intervals, so why not space creatures."
"i like it. needs to be fleshed out a bit, but it's good. shouldn't be difficult to create in the game either.windjammer"
"a lot of people are forgetting to tick the box.awesome idea do it ccp."
"stupid boxread your version of the story top to bottom a creature that can create its own warp tunnel can manipulate gravity pretty daftly i'd assume, so when it comes to space whales defending themselves, there ya go.here's a bit of fiction to make it go round in a fun way for those who find them:space whales were originally conceived just after the collapse as a way to preserve the information of the early civilizations in a form that wouldn't be tied to the human destiny. not only do space whales travel all over the place, but they also store any information they acquire into internal biologic data-cores.space whales have grown to consider humans very primitive since they can warp around without spaceships and don't use missiles which can't hit nano's going faster than 8.8k/sif you kill a space whale, you get whatever you can salvage/hack/loot.if you watch a space whale, your standings with the space whales goes up. if you watch long enough, they start dropping items for you, like hints to be less technologically decrepit. if you attack someone who has aggressed the space whale, your standings go up more.maybe even...space whale is an interactive agent who will give you new bookmarks to their location if they like you.space whale watching pirates"
"somebody was asking about these the other day...please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i like it."
"jump freighters should be allowed through covert cynos, too."
"didnt know it wasn't working this way already. please un-nerf our bo..."
"ill sign"
"will support this."
"you rich bastards."
"yarr. ze piaratez go ninja! fully supported. nuff said."
"good luck though. i defiantly support the change despite what ccp has said. however, i expect no changes."
"yes please!"
"supported but only for non capital ships i.e only blackops"
"i vote in favor of information. while the little stories are fun, and i've especially appreciated the most recent four about the current leaders of the factions, i would love to see some actual background information be published."
"/signedinteresting. if you do a search for \"vherokior\" all that comes back are numerous threads asking, \"where's our back story.\" and in the big lead up to fw, the unplayed krusual tribe got more attention than vherokior. you'd think our characters' tribes didn't exist."
"more is always good."
"supporting a windjammer thread on both counts."
"never had the switching target by themselfs bub, but alot of time i do see 2 drones falling way behind as they move utterly slow. i did realised at some point that this is because of the fact that they ram each other.so supported!"
"yeah me too please"
"i raised this one to the csm but it was rejected. discussion notes here"
"wardeccing a fw corp should have one result: you've wardecced the entire malitia, end of story. the only advantage is that you can jump into the militia's space without the npc's jumping all over you.if two corps within a milita choose to wardec each other both should be removed from the milita until their wars are concluded whereupon they can rejoin without any negative standing.civil disagreements between members of a military command are not uncommon and 'taking it outside' [the milita] is a logical and acceptable response."
"i like it"
"i'd support this if it was just a request to treat militias as alliances, so to declare war on you, i have to declare war on the alliance as a whole.or alternatively just set members of the matar militia to sec status -10. that's an in-character solution that pretty much solves all current fw problems.anyway, the op solution looks unecessarily complex, and may have odd consequences when fw corps are inevitably allowed into alliances."
"i agree with much of the post. 0.0 is simply broken.jump frieghters are even more broken. they should cost less than a carrier, as they have absolutely no use whatsoever beyond hauling crap. a carrier can fight, a rorqual can mine. a jump freighter can do nothing."
"all points supported."
"this kind of leadership is why i voted for lavista. this is the single most important issue in eve  besides the omnipresent lag . i am 100% in support of removing tech 1 loot from missions."
"don't see it as a nerf. of course, there should go something in place maybe mission wrecks could yield more salvage? .the reason this should be done, would be to free the t1 and mineral market from the npc aspect. right now npc's have a large influence on the market. i think that is no good."
"that's sort of like saying that taxes are a horizontal redistribution of wealth.what's the point? salvage is only good if you can sell it, it can't be reprocessed, for example, and most salvage is crap. the only 'really good' salvage are things like armor plates, melted caps, and tungsten alloy bars, and they're only good because they can be turned into rigs that are in high demand. further more, if you did remove t1 drops, and someone where to enter your mission and salvage your wreaks, you're left with nothing at all, and with no way of taking revenge on those who steal your wrecks.and i'd rather not see an aggro timer added to the act of salvaging wrecks that are not yours.um, no. the reason the mineral market is ****ed up isn't because people are running missions and selling t1 loot, it's messed because mineral distribution was designed at a time when most minerals were bought by npcs on the market, providing a bottom  rather then a cap  to market prices. all markets have npc components, in real markets, these take the form of governments, international agreements, and regulations."
"yes for removing un-named t1 loot. but the higher meta-levels should stay and be non-refinable  or 10 trit ;-  however i am not sure on the compensation for mission runners. maybe more salvage would be good. i see it as best option."
"a firm \"yes\" for removing the unnamed tech i loot from the drop tables, but  in particular  possibly leaving the \"named\" gear drops alone."
"worst idea ive ever heard as a new player who decided after a few trial accounts to be an industrialist. i joined an empire mission runner corp and make ammo and missiles presently for this corp. the two minerals that cannot be mined in hi sec is zydrine and megacyte and the asteroids that these minerals come from are predominately found in null sec. zyrdine and megacyte are also the most expensive per unit minerals not freely available in hi sec. when i start making ships i will have to buy large quantities of these minerals. so the only way around this for our corp to come up with these minerals is to reprocess t1 loot and for my corp mates to supply these to me, this will only offset some of the mineral costs to make battleships etc. if you remove t1 loot you see an explosion in the price of these minerals and to whos benefit definitely not empire players."
"remove meta-0 items from the loot tables  i.e. the items built using bpos , but not the meta-1 thru 4 items, faction, or officer items.if loot drops are removed then all rats must drop other refinables as drones do now. otherwise the market will suffer dramatically due to the complete loss of mid and high end minerals.i will have to vote no."
"i would look at something like this from the point of view of who it benefits and who it would hurt.+ the established industrialist  more items to make & sell + the starter or mid-term industrialist  more items to make & sell + miners  this would drive up the demand for minerals + mission runners  less haulage required of the loot drops - the starter or mid-term industrialist  the big boys would still be able to make these items and undercut them - 'hobbyist' industrialist  who use the mins recovered from reprocessing to make what they need - new player experience  i loved the process of discovering mods that did new things, or improved on standard mods i already had - mission runners  less loot to sell - miners  the increase in prices would make mining bots more attractive to run one other thing that occurs to me - why should pc ships drop loot when npc ships don't? a question that would need answering if this went ahead!i am essentially a mission-runner by trade, but even so i can see some merit in this proposal and think some of the negatives can be addressed by the op's suggestions. care needs to be taken though that all sides of this far-reaching issue  far bigger than just making life rosier for the industrialists  are looked at before making a decision. definitely if the loot is removed it needs to become more accessible to make it/acquire it in other ways. i do like the idea of bpcs for the 'named' t1 drops to populate npcs instead though.i do have faith in the csm guys for the most part, and i'm sure that lavv will do the proper thing here when he presents it : "
"good analysis. but yes, it's not the intention to grief mission runners. we need to find a good middle-ground so that mission runners aren't cheated out of profit yet i think it's a bit silly, since mission running is about the only profession that is 100% to get a fixed income, without risk "
"i have some trouble with lavista suggestions:\"add lp to compensate\"\"more salvage to compensate\"translate immediately in:\"reduce further the value of lp\"\"make most salvage practically worthless and get more already worthless salvage\", beside the \"make rigs cost nothing\"so even if he don't want to nerf missions rewards, it is the exact result of his suggestion. he is a expert industrialist and market player for what i get, so i find a bit strange that he is not seeing the effect of his suggestions on the lp and salvage market. this kind of change can't be implemented alone. it need to be part of a well thought plan where most  possibly all  of the aftereffects are considered. remove rat drops:- what will be the effect on 0.0 production? - will be that the right time to introduce a capital mining ship specialized in low end mining, so that 0.0 producers can get the low ends without the need to import from high sec?- what will be the effect on mining and mineral prices?- how will change the mineral production?- minerals available through mining are an inflexible quantity  the volume of minerlas spawned at dt is fixed  while the rat drops are extensible, the higher the number of mission runners, the higher the quantity of minerals. as the eve population is growing, it is better a extensible source or a fixed source requiring people to move further out to gather it? and so on"
"may i please point out, that they were just suggestion? a suggestion can be used in a provoking context, in order to gain feedback or a better idea. this is the case here.i'm not a mission runner. so i'm really looking for opinions from people, as for what could make up for the removal of t1 loot.i'm fairly well aware about how supply and demand works. i will admit however, that i don't have much idea about the specifics and history of the lp value. remember, just because i suggest it, it doesn't mean that will be how it will be suggested. please, help me out for how we can make this work out for everybody."
"my problem is that you are making it a suggestion in several forums, always making it as it was something with a simple cause=>effect chain, without any secondary effect. i have already pointed out this thread remove loots t1 where several peoples have discussed this same topic. you don't seem to have read it beyond the page where you have posted. as pointed in the post above  included a few noted added after eating and before seeing your reply , what will be the consequences on:- mineral prices;- mineral availability in high sec  mission drops are a expanding source, asteroid are a source with a fixed amont ;- mining: more bots?, less minerals available for new players? less mineral for players logging in in the last hours before dt?- 0.0 mining: rats are a good source of minerals, with way less risk than mining ops for veldspater - 0.0 minerals importations?- player rewards: any \"alternate\" resource convertible in isk will see a huge loss in worth in a very brief time as it will become oversupplied in no time, so if it is priced at the current level of value the reward loss will be large. but increasing the straight isk injection will be even worse as it will overflow the market with isk, with a heavy inflation following it. - if the drops are removed only from mission rats it will become a huge imbalance, if they are removed from belt/exploration rats what will be the alternate reward? the same for the mission rat or a different one?at some of these question the other thread has tried to give a reply, but the first and more important thing to see is that a single issue that will affect only the t1 production and the t1 loots, but a very complex question with far reaching effects."
"i can understand venkul mul quite well.anything you do do compensate the mission runners for lost t1 loot will have a detrimental effect in the end.the only option is to increase mission payout  wither direct reward or bounties . the problem is, loot is not guaranteed but bounties are. so you make the mission runner more profitable with a fixed increase while t1 loot was chance based."
"unsigned.removing unnamed t1 loot would seriously affect several major professions that rely heavily on reprocessing unwanted loot into minerals. -profiteers and marketeers who play the market and act as check&balance to miners-haulers and couriers who make a living picking up their contracts of region-wide purchases-small-scale industrialists and pvpers who manufacture their own supplies out of reprocessed junk-the new players who will build up most of their initial isk not in bounties or rewards but in selling off loot.if anything, the problem is that the named market is over-saturated, making the reprocessed value of meta 0 loot more valuable than most of the low-meta named goods. in my humble opinion, named loot should be removed from highsec entirely and dropped as bpcs only in lowsec or as modules in nullsec, while the top-tier named  scouts, arbalests, rolled tungsten etc  only drop their bpcs in nullsec. in addition, i think bpcs for faction loot  currently only available from lp stores or from traders  should be added to fw and plex loot tables.removing t1 loot will not serve to help anyone but the mining guilds and bots. changing the availability of the named goods and putting more influence on the manufacturing element will expand the opportunities for pilots to choose their professions, and create new demand for minerals, courier contracts, manufacturing slots, and trade goods."
"i would love to see this, and it's should be a \"relatively\" minor change.it would vastly help miners and industrial characters while revitalizing the markets.i've mined quite a lot and even done some manufacturing and frankly... it sucks.this would help alot."
"/signed"
"this comment concerns me.if you remove the loot aspect in favour of greater salvage, it seems to make the \"salvage aggro\" argument more viable for the mission runners. i'm not against dropping different loot than t1 items, but i would be against this.if you want to change what's dropped, fine. you have to think about who is grabbing the loot, however. ccp will never change the dynamic of what's dropped if you award more lp, simply because someone else grabbing it up would get little benefit from it. they recognize that there are more than just the mission runner to contend with.now, if you're looking to augment the loot drops with something new and exciting, viable to any player who comes along and nabs it, that's a different story.all that being said, what do you see as being a viable change to t1 loot drops? what will you put in that can, and who benefit from it?"
"removing tech 1 not the \"named\" stuff, from loot drops has my support.edit: i think people are missing a point, the bounties on rats can be increased slightly, to compensate for the t1 loot being removed. so instead of getting a 600k bs, one will get 650k, etc. overall this will have beneficial effect, even if at first some might experience a slight shock."
"so you want the insurance to go away because it will make the victim feel better? um the victim has had his/her ass handed to them, what kind of crap is that? you do not seem to get it. taking the insurance away will not fix the problem. you will still see suicide ganking and you will see it just for the lulz! are you that naivete to think it will curb anything?the guy getting ganked is going to be ****ed no matter what. and no fact of removing insurance from the ganker is going to make him feel any better. if there needs to be a balance then fine, give the tools to the haulers and such to give them a better chance for survival. beef up the frigging targets. allow the gankee to have the opportunity to better his ship. and the ones that don't are the ones no one will feel sorry for. they are the same ones that auto pilot.this way you are not messing with mechanics to solve an issue you are giving the players the chance to protect themselves. now the gankee can feel good about the fact he/she/it took steps to thwart the attack. that is a win. ganker nada. the gankers pride costs more the the ship. and the sec hit makes the attack not worth it.so now you will see the real gankers and the ones that think its too hard will go away. hurting them financially will not stop it."
"in order to clue someone in, you have to have one. everything in this thread is a response, for the most part, to the op which outlines ccp's belief that the suicide gank mechanics are too biased towards the ganker and what the plans are to balance this. you couldn't have missed the general theme by such a wide margin unless you intended to.your playstylex is too easily killing playstyley and therefore needs adjustment. concord, other police, and the sec rating of a solar system should have a little more meaning than being the butt of the suicide gankers joke.the planned changes are tackling the heart of the problem. these changes are neither a bandage or a knee jerk reaction. they are a well considered and studied cure being carried out by a ccp task force in response to a problem that has needed one for quite some time.you're in one of the proudest and most notable alliances in the game. your character is 5 freaking years old. you should be dealing in 100's of million and billion isk suicide ganks and you're seriously going to tell us you're worried about the small time \"i just want to blow something up, i don't care what\" ganks?!windjammer"
"so if you were to kill a hulk in a 0.7 ice field, you'd have to spend 4 whole hours ratting to regain your sec status? you poor thing. ever wonder how long it takes a miner in high sec to earn isk to purchase a hulk and outfit it? insurance pay out on that t2 barge is a joke compared with the cost of the ship. you have to rat for 4 hours. the miner has to mine weeks to purchase another barge and that's only if he has access to another hulk to do it with. your 4 hours isn't spit.additionally, you might try mining for four hours and see how it compares to 4 hours of ratting. that'll have you bashing your head against a wall in reality.windjammer"
"if you're a soldier on an interdiction mission, you should be choosing your targets well and with intelligence. the insurance in such cases is a small fraction of your gain. however, if a soldier goes to another country and commits a crime, it's still a crime even though he may be a hero in his own country. as such there are penalties and there are gains.if your actions are of value to your corp, your corp will have no problem with the concept of reimbursing you for your trouble and expense. as far as your sec hit goes? well i guess taking one for the team is something you might learn to take pride in. i seem to recall a certain freighter in or around oursulaert that got blown up by a group of your alliance mates. it contained many billions of isk in ships and modules destined for your enemies at the time. i didn't hear a single whine from anyone. only congratulations to the suicide gankers. the plans ccp has will not effect that sort of suicide gank in any way.windjammer"
"your post is the result of being misinformed. let me help you out.1  the op of this thread is not a proposal. it is an announcement of plans ccp has to implement the proposal brought to them by the csm. it appears ccp was already making the plans well before the csm brought them the proposal.2  last time i looked the thread containing the initial proposal had 155 thumbs up.3  the 25% figure you quote is in cases where nobody on the csm wants to escalate a proposal to a meeting with ccp. in such cases if a proposal receives approval from a number of subscribers equal to or greater than 25% of the voters who voted in the last csm election, the csm is forced to bring the proposal before ccp whether they want to or not.4  a proposal may be brought to vote at a csm meeting by any member of the csm where it will be voted upon for escalation to a ccp/csm meeting. a simple majority of the csm is all that is necessary to escalate. twentyfive percent of the voters isn't necessary.5  the planned actions are of ccp's design. not ashen's.i hope this clears up a few things for you. always glad to help a troubled traveler.windjammer"
"yes."
"good point.dont forget that most piratey groups dont have access to secure 0.0. as such, their ships are constantly at risk, and you have not 4 hours of mining that is serene 99% of the time, but 4 stress-filled hours. and i doubt your statement that it takes weeks to gather the money for a hulk. i have known people that have raked in 80 mil a day mining easily."
"i don't think it would either. neither does ccp. the call for it is an attempt to balance. not an attempt to lash out. by increasing the penalties for the suicide ganker, it is reasoned that frivolous/casual suicide ganks will be reduced. even those won't be eliminated and the serious suicide ganks won't be touched.with increased penalties the suicide ganker will be more inclined to calculate the relative gain versus cost of his activity rather than simply blowing the crap out of everything because he's bored or doesn't like the name of that character that just went by.windjammer"
"you're telling us that suicide gankers wouldn't howl like a herd of banshees with their tails caught in a tornado if you gave haulers, freighters and mining barges a practical way to defeat high sec suicide ganks? really. i think it's safe to say the gankers would be much happier with ccp's present plans.if i've read your proposal correctly, it would spell the effective elimination of high sec suicide ganking. personally, i don't think that would be a good thing for eve.windjammer"
"the thing is though, the cost of ganking, even without insurance, is always going to be a fraction of the potential reward.4 years ago when the cost of a cruiser was a significant investment, and insurance was pretty much a joke, fittings expensive, and targets relatively low value, people *still* suicide ganked.why?because they find it fun.now isk is readily available, targets are potentially very juicy, and ships are comparitively cheap - removing insurance is not going to make people stop doing something they find fun. even without insurance the cost of a suicide gank will be covered by killing the npcs it takes to recover the security status - loot is just a bonus.if your goal is to reduce deaths to ganks, this is not the way to go.if your goal is to stop people whining that it isn't fair, then i can understand why ccp are looking at it.if you want to reduce ganking you need to make it harder, not more costly.if you think i say all this because i favour ganking, then i suggest you look back on my posts in other threads about this subject.if i favoured it, i wouldn't have proposed things like ablative defences for ships - a huge hp buffer to shields or armour  or both , but which can only be repaired in a station at a repair facility. if you get attacked you are likely to survive, but will have to pay to have your defences repaired.that is a way to balance risk and reward, make suicide ganking less of a worry for the individual pilot, and to reward players who proactively seek to protect themselves.removing insurance does nothing to lower the risks for potential victims - if they are attacked they are still going to die, the ganker is still going to have fun, and the victim is still going to be sitting in their pod crying.the proposal does not tackle the issue, not matter how much you want to think it would.look at pvp combat in general. i fly almost exclusively t2 ships, so i am in a position to know what it is like to be basically uninsured. if i lose a ship then there is far less prospect of me recovering my losses from gathering loot than a suicide ganker has, and yet i fly them all the time.does it make economical sense? is it profitable?no, of course not ... but it is a hell of a lot of fun.i am happy to absorb the cost of loss to be able to play the game in the way i enjoy, and it is exactly the same for suicide gankers.this *is* a proposal to punish, not to balance, and so i respectfully disagree with you."
"don't forget that most high sec miners don't have access to 0.0 either. you do not know anyone who has raked in 80 mil in a day of high sec mining.which is the type of mining i specified. if they raked in that much they were in low sec or 0.0. miners down there have a little stress too you know. also, that's still a full day of mining versus 4 hours of ratting even if they do have access to 0.0.talk to your friends and ask them about the particulars of that 80 million. were they mining solo? what sec were they in? how many hours did it take them?what is this complaing you have about 4 hours of stress, anyway. i thought you scum of the earth suicide gankers liked that sort of thing.windjammeryou're kidding. s-c-u-m is a filtered word?"
"this guy is lying when he says high sec mining is worth 10mil/hr then? or you are saying that 8hrs is more than a day?i'm confused."
"but haulers, freighters and mining barges do have a practical way of defeating high-sec suicide ganks. it's called playing the game  and in case of freighters, scouting  and minimizing ganker profits.the fact the greedy bastards try to make cash afk and without taking neccesary precautions  because they're in high-sec  is something different. afk 'play' should be risky. someone strip-mining high-sec belts in a hulk should be at risk  you can argue the hulk needs to be tougher so you need a bc to suicide one; well, maybe . people suiciding them for the lols will always happen, because, well, with a multi-billion wallet, i can afford suiciding a few t1 cruisers even without insurance payouts, as do many older players  -10 prevents me from getting to high-sec, else i'd be suicide ganking idiots in t1 haulers myself . the security hit  and need to go fix it after suiciding  is what prevents you from just going to jita 4-4, buying 30 cruisers and suiciding yourself all day long for most, the time spent is the real penalty there, anyway.also, don't give me the 'boo, time for hulk' - suicide ganking is uncommon enough that the average hulk has probably paid itself five times over before it got ganked. my low-sec  pirate  ships are under risk of destruction all the time, and i generally get to pay about 2-3 times their value before they explode  didn't have a ship outlast premium insurance ever , so the high-sec hulk still has a better return on the investment  albeit, over a longer time frame, but also at lower risk .ships are tools which inevitably die. how much they earn for you before they die is what counts. treating ships in any other way is for carebears which seriously don't get eve."
"that's in a 6-10 hour day in high sec - with the hulk you just ganked, when it only takes minutes for the 0.0 suicide ganker to recover his isk losses by ratting, that's just a wee tad unbalanced."
"you don't seem to get it for you. let me spell it out in basic words:gankers do not want anything to change because it will hurt them and help the person being ganked. by having insurance void if they are killed by concord it will hurt them financially. the gankers do not want that.if it actually cost them isk then it will cost them it will curb the suicide ganks for lulz that happens all the time.\"hey joe, there is a hulk mining in a belt in a 0.5, lets go suicide gank him.\"\"but bill, what possible loot could we get from it?\"\"who cares, it costs us nothing and will be funny to destroy something that he worked hard to get.\"\"but then he will have kill rights on us.\"\"and what? come back and maybe have a shot at destoying our insured ships? we still lose nothing again, and we get the opportunity to kill him again without concord showing up to help us get our insurance.\"\"your right bill, its his own fault for learning how to save his isk.\"\"yarrrrr... overload your t1 guns so we can kill him faster and with less people... yarrrrrr!!!\""
"he can't recover the sec status in minutes though.you really must try to look at the whole picture."
"ahaha, thats not balance thats catering. insurance right now is balanced and fair because it is blind to the circumstances your ship blew up in. once you start adding circumstances to which you do not get the payout you start making it cater to a specific group of people which isnt fair or balanced. unless of course you mean balanced by 'it fits my playstyle'. for example, a balanced change would be to remove the plat. level insurance entirely, to decrease isk injection into the game. what about people fitting ships for pvp, almost never having the insurance expire on those ships because they almost always get blown up. or people self destructing ships for plat insurance because somone is selling them so low its profitable. insurance doesnt make sense realistically in this game, however it is a game and it doesnt have to make any sense or be a profitable venture. making the system cater would go against the sandbox nature of this game. increasing options to the victim and maybe his escort would expand the sandbox nature of the game. i am strongly opposed to any change that reduces the sandbox or multiplayer nature of the game.avon is essentially right about the reduction of insurance wont stop suicide ganking, but it will change what ships suicide gank in. probably push it more to the t1 high dps cruisers and battle cruisers like the vexor/thorax/brutix setups. essentially the isk loss is the same as the isk lost in a gank battleship with insurance."
"i will say he's lying.with all relevent skills at 4, hulk, t2 strips, t1 crystals, single account i can make ~5m an hour in belts where the roids survive more than 3 cycles.if you consider that hulk, with its rigs and equipment, costs just under 300m that is a long time mining. the only time it undocks anymore is when i need some trit and there isn't anything close at a decent price, i make a lot better iskies running level 3 missions.now if you have all skills maxed, multiple accounts and a hauler, yes you can make that much. run the numbers with 5 accounts  4 max hulks and one t2 hauler  and you can meet that but a single miner without maxed skills can't get anywhere near.now if you want the attacker to spend the same time getting his security up as it takes me to replace that ship, i'm all for it i think that is a touch extreme though, ratting is only a bit better than mining is...."
"screaming about people afking is total bs and you know it! they will suicide gank if the guy is afk or not. so stop trying to play that card."
"i am saying let the players play the game and give them the opportunity. leave it in the players hands to set the balance. its not a guarantee to stop the attack, but if the player chooses to use some brain cells, then their chance of survival will increase. it is up to the player to fail or to succeed. it called playing the game.it will not wipe out suicide ganking at all. it will only increase the immersion. and what the hell is wrong with \"practical\" any way?"
"no it is not bs. you saying it is shows how little knowledge you have in this subject. if someone is flying atk and using wtz, a suicide ganker does not have time to scan and fire. on the jump-in side of the gate, a fast ganker might have time to scan or fire, but not both. what flying atk does is make it much more difficult for a suicide ganker to perform his trade. you are still vulnerable to multi-people dedicated camps, but you are virtually immune from any lone suicide ganker, and even a dual-boxing ganker. flying atk and using wtz is the number one most important thing to do when hauling. it does not remove the risk for suicide ganking, but it does mitigate it substancially."
"ccp is taking steps to balance suicide ganking, get over it man."
"translation: i don't know what the hell i'm talking about, but i think ccp is on my side, so it doesn't matter."
"lol, your losing your isk button, get over it.anyways last couple pages of this thread is like the same 4-5 ppl, so i think take my leave and let other people comment.laters."
"good idea. you've certainly managed to show how you, when called on your lack of knowledge, will take your ball and go home. it's the lack of knowledge about how suicide ganks work, displayed here excellently by marlona, that is making this debate so hard to follow, and so important to conclude. it has become increasingly obvious that the people calling for a nerf don't really know what goes on in a suicide gank. several of them have experienced suicide ganks as the victim, and speak more from an emotional and vindictive standpoint than a rational one. rationality seems to have taken a real dip, as even ccp, in the op, fails to be rational, claiming that devs have come to the realization that suicide ganking mechanics today are imbalanced in favor of the ganker. this is irrational because the mechanics are the same as before."
"i agree. loss of insurance alone will not be an effective dissuasion. that's why there are other changes in the overall balance plan. when you add loss of insurance and the other planned changes together you get an effective package that will disuade the casual suicide ganker and bring some balance back to the situation.as you point out, the loss of insurance is a minor issue for suicide gankers. this means it won't hurt them to lose it, but it will help balance the mechanics of suicide ganking when loss of insurance is added to the other components of the overall balance plan.thank you for clarifying your stance on suicide ganking. i was having a difficult time understanding why someone such as yourself would favor such an activity.as it happens, i like your proposals and would prefer them as well as similar ones. the problem with them is that they would virtually eliminate the ability of suicide gankers to do what they do. provide haulers, freighters and mining barges with a practical way to survive suicide ganks? suicide gankers would howl up a firestorm of complaint. the changes ccp plans are an approach from the other end of the problem, yes, but it's an approach that won't eliminate suicide ganking like yours would. it is therefore more palatable to suicide gankers and the general populace of eve.windjammer"
"well first of all it's not a proposal. i know that's what assembly hall is for, but ccp decided to put the results of ccp/csm meetings in here as well. the op of this thread is an announcement of what ccp has planned in response to the bias of mechanics currently favoring suicide gankers. this is similar to threads started to discuss planned changes made in dev blogs and threads started to discuss changes that have been made after the release of a patch or update.again, loss of insurance is just a single part of the overall plan and by itself will not stop suicide ganking. in fact none of the changes will nor will the entire plan when implemented with all the changes the plan contains. that's a major point in favor of the planned changes and a major point of consideration when the plans were made and in their continued refinement.suicide ganking is recognized as an important part of eve. as such, the desire is not to eliminate it. rather, the desire is to create a situation in which suicide ganking takes a bit more thought and consideration regarding gain and loss. the idea is to reduce easy griefing suicides, not eliminate suicide ganking from the landscape.windjammer"
"yes. this guy is either lying or badly mistaken. if you want verification of this, look at what he said about mission running. ten million isk/hour running level 4 missions? everyone who's run them can tell you that's way low.the highest income i made in a single day of mining in high sec was with a hulk. it was, of course, fitted with t2 strips running t2 crystals and i had upgrades in the low slots. mining foreman trained to level 5 and exhumer trained to level 5 for the boosts. i was mining omber then because it was paying extremely well at the time. i earned a bit over 50 million that day, but it took me 14 hours of continuous mining and i had a continuous and uncontested supply of omber to mine. no, i'm not kidding and i do not use scripts. i did not take breaks. i ran to the bathroom between cycles of the lasers and ate while mining. i did it because i had an entire system loaded with omber, there weren't any other barges in the system  very strange day  and i wanted to see if i could get it all. there were a lot of belts in that system and i didn't get all of it, but i almost did. let me tell you....fourteen hours of that @#@$% @$@%#% @#$#@ is nuts. i will never do it again.so when i say there is no way a miner in high sec can rake in 80 million isk in a day, i speak from experience. not from speculation. the only way a miner could possibly do that would be to mine for maybe the entire 23 hours of the up time. i don't see that as something somebody is going to do unless they're running a script and even then i have serious doubts as to it being possible.windjammer"
"ah but your suicide ganker is actually making isk while getting his standing back. maybe we should change 0.0 rats to return only standing and it would then be fair trade."
"you're new to the discussion or you would have realized the context of my post was ship modifications. bonuses, new types of modules of specific value to industrialist ships, higher resists, more armor, more shield, more structure, more slots for those ships, better fitting ability, etc. the context was not tactics.the planned changes are not being implemented to protect people using bad tactics. they are being created to protect those using good tactics who aren't getting the level of protection they should in a high sec system. there's no tactic to protect you from blind suicide ganking that nails you before you come out of black screen or before the grid loads. no amount of scouting is going to stop a suicide gank of your freighter in high sec.  you don't know who you're scouting for in high sec. bit different from the situation you have in 0.0 and low sec. further, if you'd read my earlier posts you'd see i do not support people who play afk while piloting ships loaded with expensive items.as far as i know the hulk is already tough enough that it takes at least a bc to suicide it in high sec. if it could be done with a cruiser, the problem would be even greater than it is.the plans are to make the suicider pay for his/her giggles and therefore cut down on the frequency. i'm happy for you that you have a multi billion isk wallet. many in the game do not have that. even so the loss of insurance will not be enough to stop them and that is why loss of insurance is only a part of the whole planned package. the increase in sec hit should be of particular interest to you, given what you've said.if high sec suicide ganking of exhumers were as uncommon as you suggest, ccp wouldn't be making the planned changes. you can thank \"jihad\"swarm for highlighting the weakness in game mechanics.i get the impression you're more than a little out of touch with high sec and what goes on there.windjammer"
"it is not catering. it is balance. ccp understands that \"today's suicide gank mechanics are too biased in the gankers favor\". that's from the first sentence in the op of this thread and it can be read as meaning there is an imbalance that needs balancing. catering would be to leave the current situation as is. that would cater to the suicide gankers who are in it for the griefing content. oh......look who i'm talking to. of course. you know all about griefing.contrary to what you say, the planned changes are an effort to preserve the sandbox. not to reduce it. if you were really interested in the sandbox, you'd favor the planned changes. since goonswarm has always been more interested in griefing than anything else i'm skeptical of your claims.windjammer"
"nothing is wrong with practical. i'd prefer to be able to make the industry ships tougher. what i'm saying is that if you offered the means to do it in a practical way, you'd have people using those means. if people used those means, suicide ganking would be virtually eliminated in high sec or become a rarity. high sec suicide gankers would then have a legitimate beef.there really aren't too many people that want suicide ganking to be impossible. that's even stated in the first sentence of the op of this thread.windjammer"
"ohhhhh........i see. you and some of the people who agree with you are the only rational ones and we should only listen to what you have to say. ccp, the csm, myself  of course  and...oh.....a whole bunch of other people who disagree with you are wrong and you're right because everyone else is irrational. why didn't you say so before? could have saved us all a lot of time.windjammer"
"ohhhhh........i see. you and some of the people who agree with you are the only rational ones and we should only listen to what you have to say. ccp, the csm, myself  of course  and...oh.....a whole bunch of other people who disagree with you are wrong and you're right because everyone else is irrational. why didn't you say so before? could have saved us all a lot of time.windjammerno, you should just try to be rational. so far, you're not. as i said, even ccp isn't very rational on this issue. it's irrational to try to fix something without first examining what the problem is. we haven't even had anyone stating exactly what the problem is in this or any other thread without mixing in opinions such as \"too much\" or \"too little\". give me a rational explanation of what the problem is please.also, try to be rational enough to look at a game mechanic from all angles, not just the one affecting your playstyle. in this thread we have had people from different playstyles saying that the removal of insurance for suicide ganks is a bad knee-jerk reaction to a much bigger problem. this is an example of looking at the mechanic from several angles. we have all come to the same conclusion: the removal of insurance from suicide ganking is a bad 'fix'.the reason i am posting in this thread is because i don't see the finality in ccp's decision. they haven't changed anything until they actually do it. i feel it is my duty as a player to try to make them see why it is a bad idea. since the only reason they are even contemplating changing anything is the endless whining on the forums  as evidenced by the \"sudden realisation that there is a problem\" despite the fact that it's the same mechanics as before  i feel it should be fairly easy to convince them otherwise."
"exactly, i expect that under this system the pos will be used for practical purposes rather than for territory control itself, so they'll only be set up for industry and base of operations purposes instead of as sov-holders."
"nice proposal that moves broadly in the right direction. i share some of the concerns over certain details, but with a bit more balancing this should work"
"yarrr, i agree. the pilgrim just seems 'bugged' as it looses the range bonus  which may have been logical in the nos age, but is pointless now  without gaining another bonus to compensate."
"web range is exactly one of the issues, did you even read the op post?the pilgrim should reflect in the same manner as its cousin, the curse, in the same ways that all force recon vessels reflect their respective combat recon cousins - simple as that.no thought went into the effect the nos nerf would have on this ship, and it needs to be visited.if you really feel that there should be some ship that breaks the mold, propose a new ship line, because we pilgrim owners feel that it should reflect in like manner to the already established bar of force recon ships."
"-20% effective capacitor for calculations of energy vampire drain amounts per level. that would effectively remove the nos nerf from the pilgrim at lvl 5  unless i completely fail at grasping the nos functionality, but you get my point .just to add ideas "
"did you even read my post? webrange is not an issue to the way the pilgrim fights, or it wouldn't be if you could actually run multiple neuts for a reasonable time  see earlier post  without a cap booster or lots of cap mods.i am a pilgrim owner, in fact i am recon 5, td skilled, max cap skilled pilgrim owner, and i don't know how long you have been a pilgrim owner, but i have for over a year, and it worked fine when before nos nerf inside webrange  with the same tank i have on it now incidentally - plate + single rep . the problem is that you cannot maintain your cap warfare and run some kind of local repair worth anything without using an injector or lots of cap mods, which is why i proposed building a large cap battery into the ship, which would give you enough cap to run an effective analogue to pre nos-nerf pilgrims.alternatively another midslot and the grid/cpu to fit a large cap battery in with an ab, or a medium injector with an mwd, and some more cargo space for charges would be nice."
"the first option is not a option at all. it would completely eliminate the identity the pilgrim has, and make it a useless nano ship, which btw ccp has already expressed its interest in nerfing.the second option is the best of those two, but it still wouldn't help unless you change the way noss work, because you can't run them dry with a nos, and when they have less cap than you, you stop draining anyways. i would rather remove the td bonus and add a +5% bonus to armour resistance. altough this would make it a useless td boat, it would make it much more tanky, or just add some built in resistances to its armour."
"here's a fix that will remedy the pilgrim perfectly.give it the same bonus to fitting large nos/neuts that logistics currently enjoy to fit large remote reps/shield/energy transfer  i.e. 80-90% reduction in cpu/pg reqs for large nos/neut .increase cap and regen by 20%.this will give pilgrims more range  out to 25km w/o resorting to faction  without modifying their current range bonuses, and make them deadly in close range where they're  apparently  designed to fight."
"totally agree - pigrim needs some love - of all recons its most useless now."
"yes, i read your post and disagreed with it. and as stated by op, it is the only force recon ship to fight at the edge of webs. it's also the only force recon ship to not carry all the bonuses, albeit reduced, than their cousin combat recons. your setup = fail. over a year ago was a different age in combat, and if you propose changes to fit within that construct, it would be just as worthless as it is now. simply give it the same bonuses, at the established bar, of the already existing force recon ships. it has utility, uniqueness, and logic, if carried through at that level - but it wouldn't be a better alternative to the curse.a change to it's bonuses to reflect that of it's cousin would be enough to use, but not enough to make it a better alternative to the curse. your proposal restricts it to use in a manner that no other force recon has to endure, and puts it at much higher risk as well."
"why did you ask if i had read the op then? you do know that flying it at the edge of web range is not the only and often not the most effective way of flying it?my proposed changes restore it to its former combat effectiveness  and the one about extra mid yadda yadda would actually allow it to be used as it was once, and give it new utility it doesn't have at the moment . with a range bonus it would become what the rapier is to the huginn, nearly identical ship, trade dps for cloak.my proposal keeps it in the spirit it was originally designed, and see above for what you call 'different'. i propose a slight nudge to the current status quo, to restore the ship to what it was, you propose drastically changing it, and thus the way it operates and is flown.the cloak allows you to pick targets, and maybe you have to put a bit more thought in before decloaking on something, rather than just, 'oh well if it all goes pearshaped, i can just rocket off at high speed'."
"this is an assumption you have made, nothing more. it is incorrect. not all ships are designed to fit both long and short ranged weapons. hacs are even more specific here than usual, they're often designed with a single kind of fit in mind, while bcs and bss are far more versatile. when was the last time you saw an artillery vagabond? if you think it's hard fitting hams to a cerb you should try squeezing 720mms on a vaga!seems absurd, right? that's because it is. the cerberus is a mid to long ranged missile hac. the eagle is a mid to long ranged turret hac. both of those have a great deal of uses and if you can't figure them out, jim, then that's nobody's problem but your own. the reason why people are telling you to train another race is because mid to long range is caldari's whole deal. if you'd like to object to that principle more generally, start another thread about how caldari lacks close range high damage options  they don't, ham drake w/ 3x bcu and a minimal tank, it's lulzerrific . this thread, however, is as jade said  unusually succinctly , terrible."
"signed. the cerberus, like the nighthawk, is apparently balanced as a mission ship without a mwd  seriously, the fitting required to upgrade to a proper dual lse or lsb/injector setup is almost exactly the fitting used by a mwd ii . this should be fixed to allow a tank similar to the other hacs, considering the current pvp environment where mwds are mandatory.awesome, especially if precision heavies get fixed so they aren't completely useless, but i get the feeling a lot of people will complain that this makes it too good and negates the flight time drawback missiles are balanced around.yes, but not because the cerberus has problems. the kinetic-only bonus on everything but the raven is just annoying, and needs to be fixed, but the cerberus isn't hurt any worse by this problem than the other caldari ships.now, while these arguments are good, they really don't make any sense in the context of your complaints about the cerberus being useless with long-range missiles. two of your proposed changes benefit the long-range setup just as much as any short-range setup, while the third is only useful on a long-range setup. sure, they would be nice to see, but isn't this kind of a concession that the cerberus' current role is just fine?"
"i'd love to see the double missile velocity bonus too, but rather than make the kinetic damage bonus apply to all missiles types i'd like to see it dropped in favour of a big explosion velocity bonus  and i mean like 50% per level or something - a proper bonus ."
"isn't the sacrilege supposed to run a dual rep resist setup though? after fitting which you cannot use its last high  not even for a cloak like the cerb .cerb is a 90km sphere of death for small ships, but it is i agree, far less useful in most cruiser gang situations than a sac.i like your proposed change  same range but missiles cover it faster due to double velocity bonus, which actually makes it a better missile sniper  and i agree it needs a bit more grid."
"so we have 3 races following the exact same pattern of close and long range style boats and we have one race that has almost exclusively long range boats and you are against homogenisation ?tell me more about it."
"i would be chuffed to bits if the cerb was changed with the bonuses jim sets out.most important thing to change about the cerb for me is the ability to fits hams with an mwd and a half decent buffer tank  2 lse, photon, invul, mwd giving the pilot the choice of losing tank for tackle as is the caldari way."
"/signedsame goes for the eaglecaldari get really gimped with our fitting issuesnot the slot layout simply pwg/cpu"
"/sighto all these people complaining that caldari cant fight close up in cruiser fights  plus adressing claims from different threads that caldari cant nano , i present to you:ham nano-caldari navy caracalone option for the fitting goes like this:1x od ii, 2x bc ii, rcu ii, lse ii, wd ii, small cap booster ii, fleeting web, 10mn mwd ii, 6x ham ii, 3x polycarbs  or 2 polys and one aux thruster , 3 hobgoblin iisdps: 455 with a range of 30km, speed: 3553 m/s with cheap hardwirings and in a gang, agility: like an interceptor  2.9 seconds to warp with mwd off , hp: 17k, what is the web for: killing cerbs and other nano hacs of course, overload, orbit at 7.5km and full speed, enjoysee, you dont even have to train for a sacrilege. the cerberus<U+FFFD>s role is long range, and fitting it for long range is no problem at all. so wheres the problem?more grid: what for?*double missile speed bonus: yeah, maybe.kinetic bonus: thats a different, non cerberus focused discussion.* how exactly is the cerb hard to fit? never ran into problems. how many lses do you think you absolutely need to cramp onto it?the sixth slot, how about an auto-targeting system or a cloak or something? do you really think that slot is there for a medium neut or something, on a long range ship?"
"what? cerb is a very potent hac in right hands.compared to other midle-range hacs it has generally more dps and bigger hp buffer at the expence of non-insta damage.who really needs some love is munin, but cerb is ok."
"so now a faction cruiser becomes the balancing standard? the issue is other races can achieve the same utility in close range setups with plain t1 or t2 ships."
"lol!"
"the distance you have to be to the black ops battleship is ridiculous. with the nature of battleships being bumped around the range causes problems just sitting still. the tiniest of movement mucks everything up. and if one of the ships bumps the battleship it can bump another ship out of range as well. the slow response point and click movement, plus laggy situations, and the tiny area to operate makes it difficult for ships to go in a portal. these mechanics can cause ships to come in multiple jumps or moving back in range because of the short range mechanics and bumping physics.currently the range seems to be 500m or less. it should be in the vicinity of a jumpgate: 2500m. edit: modified title to more accurately reflect what it is and distinguish between it and lightyear range traveled."
"sounds sensible. what's the activation range on a bridging titan, just out of curiousity?"
"currently there is zero downside in trying to self-destruct a ship in a losing fight despite the fact that it denies loot.self-destructing unfairly penalizes ships that are deigned to disable and wear down other ships  nos/neut, ewar, heavy tank/ low gank  and penalizes smaller ships winning engagements versus larger ship classes.additionally the timer is not balanced across ship classes, with huge buffer ships and capitals having an easy time of abusing this mechanic to deny loot.there is a lengthy thread here discussing possible balances."
"*grumbles* why can you not edit 'support this issue' into your post?obviously i support my own issue."
"i cant really say i see self destructing as a major problem that needs fixing tbh.ive only once had it happen to me during my time in eve, but tbh if the pilot finds this a good way to stop others from getting their loot then so be it."
"self-destruct should drop 100% of the modules and cargo.self-destruct should also consist of two phazes on a 120 second timer:after 60 seconds the pilot is jetisoned from the vessel.at 120 seconds the unpiloted ship explodes, dropping all of its modules & cargo intact.thus, when a pilot chooses to self destruct they will have 60 seconds to disarm the self destruct sequence. once they're ejected they have the normal 30 second wait to reboard and in so doing deactivate the countdown.anyone boarding the ship once the pilot ejects will deactivate the self-destruct sequence."
"it needs balancing. as it stands now there is no reason to ever not do it if you think you're losing. it also both easier to use and harder to prevent on capital ships and large buffered ships. i'm fine with self-destruct remaining in the game, but it needs to be balanced."
"self destruct actually is designed to destroy everything. when some one pops them normally they some mods destroyed. what you said makes no sense. why should that mechanic be any different form normal destruction? if anything if they self destruct, the pod should go too. and the attackers should get a kill mail. because the attackers forced the destruction of that ship."
"self-destructing should serve two purposes:1  to deny your attackers profit from your loss2  to inflict damages upon your attackers at the cost of your own ship.to these ends, i would recommend the following changes to self-destruct:1  reduce the timer to 30s, with no option to cancel.2  reduce the amount of loot that drops from your ship to 1-2 items  non-ammunition/charge . however, self-destructed wrecks offer 200% salvage.3  create an aoe blast around your ship equal to 1/10th your remaining capacitor amount, at 25%/25%/25%/25% damage types, radius to determined by ship type  eg. frig=1km, battleship 10km, cap ship 25km .4  ships under fire when the self-destruct generate a killmail for the enemy, with the ship that hits you last getting 'final blow'. your name appears on your killmail, the amount of damage remaining = damage done.5  ships that are self-destructed receive no insurance payout. further, pilots that self-destruct lose their pod, and wake in their clone bay, losing any implants and with the appropriate skillpoint penalty if the clone is not up-to-date. the \"final blow\" pilot in the mail gets whatever bounty might have been on your head."
"don't get lost in the details or the suggestions and ignore the issue at hand. self-destructing is currently imbalanced. it needs to be tweaked, regarldess of what, exactly, those tweaks end up being.as it stands there is no down side to self-destructing for the player blowing his ship up despite the very real penalties it inflicts on their attackers. and for some ships  like capitals  except in very rare circumstances it's impossible to kill said ships before the 2 minute sequence finishes.cap warfare, electronic warfare, low dps ships, low dps gangs as well as solo play are all penalized by this mechanic."
"if anything self destruct timers are too long and have little to no meaning for subcapital ships. most of the time such ships are popped well before the timer runs out and the ship self destructs. a frigate, for instance, may as well not even have the self destruct option unless it's to prevent the pilot being stuck in a webbed and scrambled situation where the attacker won't finish him/her off.traditionally self destruct has been used in the world of scifi and real life to deny enemy access to assets. whether those assets be in the form of treasure, intelligence or firepower.in the end, the ship was earned by the person piloting it and that person should be able to do with his/her property as they wish as long as said property is still within their hands.i've no objection to the attacker getting a killmail. that person did ultimately cause the events leading to the ships demise. i don't think the pod should go in a self destruct because obviously the emergency eject provisions of the pod spring into action.windjammer"
"did you even bother to read any of this?think about the repercussions of decreasing the self-destruct time! lets pretend timers were changed so it was viable for ships to complete self-destructs in all non uber-ganked situations:1  every player would self-destruct rather than lose. it denies opposition loot and costs you nothing.2  to get any sort of loot  the reward part of the risk vs reward  players would need to have extremely high dps. there's a limit to how much one player can do, but bringing more players makes it more likely any loot drops.3  any small ship that starts to win versus a bigger ship gets no loot.4  any ewar/cap warfare ship that isn't in a blob gang gets no loot.5  any low dps, heavily tanked ship, that works on the design of grinding the opponent down gets no loot.how is that in anyway desirable? i understand and respect the desire to have a self-destruct option, but it needs to balanced. if it's going to deny the opposition assets it needs to have a drawback or it will always be used by good players  like now ."
"you don't know me, so i'll simply tell you. i did bother to read it prior to my initial post.1  every player will not self-destruct rather than lose. your premise is flawed. many, if not most, prefer to go down with their guns blazing. still others are not willing to admit they're losing until it's far too late. oh....and many want to see how much they can do to the other prior to being blown up.2  i see no problem with your number 2. you want the loot? work for it. the original owner did.3  sucks to be a solo small ship. my heart bleeds for them. get more friends or get a bigger ship.4  properly speaking ewar ships are meant to work as part of a fleet. they are not intended to do everything well. that fleet need not be a blob. something as smalls as 2 or 3 people often suffices.5  then use a ship designed to destroy your oponent before he/she can self destruct or call in buddies.you're right. it's not balanced now. like i said, the timer needs to be shortened so that people in smaller ships have practical access to it. i've not seen or heard of players \"always\" using it. in fact i've seldom heard of the self destruct being used. as it stands it's nearly worthless for the vast majority of ships in eve.windjammer"
"you're not so good at this. you still get to \"see how much you can do\" and \"go down with guns blazing\" while self-destructing. shorter the self-destruct time the more true this is. as it stand you can cancel it any time you want. so there is no reason not to use it in any sort of questionable fight. in other words, since it only hurts your enemies without hurting you, all good players will use it. people forgetting to is bad play, not a balanced mechanic.if i can kill you with low dps over a longer time why should i be denied loot? i did 'work' for it. requiring that dps be the only option to get loot encourages blobbing. you're right, small ships shouldn't be viable for anything besides tackle. obviously they lack the social skills to x up for blobwar and ought to be penalized. let's just remove everything smaller than carriers. according to what? windjammer's school of total fail? ships are limited in what they can kill by player skill and fittings, not by class size. self-destruct makes size matter more than it ought to. some nub in a bs deserves to be looted by a well fit frig who outplays him, not shafted because nub can right click self-destruct and afk.new to pvp? what an absurd thing to suggest. not all pvp occurs in your home station after you've docked your ratting raven, x'd up in your 50 man local defense gang and told the ewar pilots that now that there's a fleet their ships can do something.omg. windjammer hasn't heard of it being used? it's not in your elite tactics book? well hell, i must be imagining that it's a problem. if you haven't heard of it, i can't imagine it's an actual problem. mods remove my post! in fact remove my rights to post at all, i didn't check with windjammer first, obviously i don't deserve to keep posting."
"endless,windjammer is right as to the frequency of players actually using that option. most players play style rarely incorporates the denial button. where it used the most i have seen is in cap ships, because they have the time to do so verses the sub caps in which they usually melt fairly quick. and the ones that don't melt with in that time, took the steps to ensure a decent tank, so they are actually playing the game as intended.most pvp'rs choose there targets based on what they have to fight with. and running into some one who pushes the panic button all the time is fairly rare. once you get the notification, the 2 minute drill comes into play. and that's when you over heat the weapons. or call in some more support if they are close enough that is.jammer, about the pod i am kind of on the fence about that now. i do see your point. but self destructing your ship should give you a pause at least. maybe when you hit the self destruct button you have the option to eject at some point and the attackers can risk trying to board the ship to stop the self destruct count down. if the attacker can't then he is danger of loosing his pod to the area blast or something. of course the attacker has to be able to pilot the ship he is trying to capture. so the guy pushing the button has to weigh the possibility of loosing his ship to the attackers or going down with his ship.v0v self destructing a ship is not one of my things to do. its not some e-honor or anything, i just like fighting to the end and victor goes the spoils. but that's just my play-style."
"i lol'd right about here.if you can slowly wear them away, little by little... until they finally die from boredom... you don't deserve any amount of loot. you are a failure as a pirate, and should be taken out back and beaten with your own peg leg.there's a very large and fat line between care bear mission looting, and pvp pirate looting. and if you can't kill them in enough time to prevent their self destruction... then you don't deserve anything. no loot, no killmail, no e-peen stroking of any kind. sorry...\"come prepared to fight and win, or don't come at all.\""
"i can't remember when you and i have ever agreed upon anything. i even like your suggestions for the pod. if you make a proposal with those suggestions for the assembly hall, i'll support it and i believe others will as well. it would really make the self destruct more interesting by adding in some tactical complexity.i'm a little worried about this whole agreeing with each other thing, but i'm sure it won't last so i'm not too worried.regards,windjammer"
"way to ignore the entire recon like, especially the curse, pilgrim and sentinel as well as nos/neut ships of larger sizes.obviously these ships weren't designed to get loot.eve, where you'd better kill them quick or they'll self-destruct and say, lol, learn to blob nub, then you'll get some loot."
"some of the ideas on how to fix this are fairly dumb imo, like that their pod should die in the blast, or that 100% of the loot drops  lol .i think that a fair side effect to self destructing is that when you activate it all mods go offline and you lose control of your drones so you cant fight back."
"obviously they weren't... because they are meant to support a gang.there are straight combat ships, and then there are support ships. tacklers, ew, ecm, logistics... none of these were meant to win a battle single-handedly."
"i dislike this idea intensely. be happy knowing that you have denied your opponent a ship. if you killed it, or they self-destructed, they take the same loss. the loot would be nice, but a gangmate could easily just pop the wreck if self-destruct was removed. when they choose to self-destruct, thats your warning to pile on the damage if its really that important to you.if you really need the emotional response you get from a killmail in order to play eve, perhaps you need to rethink your life priorities."
"you have zero working knowledge of pvp do you? they might take the same loss, but no loot for the vicor is a big deal.wtf are you on about with their gang mate coming to pop the wreck? so what? how is that in any way relevant, in the slightest, littlest bit, to the issue at hand?denying a frigate loot off a battleship beause it takes him 15 minutes to kill it is absurd. as is trying to argue that the enire line of amarr cap warfare boats don't deserve get loot if they solo something.additionally, where are we 'laying on the dmg' from when they start self-destruct. the dps of combat ships don't change much throughout a fight, and they certainly don't have tons of spare dps lying around that they've left in reserve for the moment someone starts self-destructing.stop posting, it'll make the forums a better place."
"e s a d i a f... dudeyou are upset, as are a great many other \"pirates\" because you can't win a fight. you think you can dish out enough dps to \"eventually\" take down an enemy. but you do realize that's damage per second... not damage per hour.so don't act so shocked when you're expected to finish a fight in a limited amount of time. where have you been living, that you pick a fight in a dark alley somewhere, and slowly jab at the other guy until he gets tired of your pathetic 12yr old girl punches, and falls down.you started the battle, and they went home in a pod. looks like you're the \"winner\".but coming onto the forums, and whining about the lack of loot and a killmail, makes you the \"weiner\".so learn to play, and play to win, or go home."
"disagree,speed is not broken, and can be countered.skill training in primary and secondary skills, time investment equated in experience to use effectively, and isk, reflects accurately in outcome vs. those who don't invest the same resources. when compared vs. others that invest at parity, the outcome is uncertain.balanced."
"tbh this issue could be resolved in many cases by allowing tractor beams to work in pvp as say a 25-30% web @20k  as opposed to a web 90% @10k .of course making marauders a little bit more of a pvp machine than they already are"
"agreed. speed is way too binary. if you're a speed tank against a turret based bs, you can't get hit. if you get webbed, you die. it's not interesting enough imo, there's not enough skill/circumstance aspect to it. turrets should still be able to hit speed tanks  albeit very seldomly  and speed tanks shouldn't become fish in a barrel if they get webbed."
"then you wouldnt mind boosting my carrier to be a wtf solopwnbbq ship then right? as acording to you, training time investment, secondary skill requirments, and isk investment justify a broken mechaninc.heck my carrier takes tons more training, time, and isk investment than your nano.. i should be able to leave the field of battle whenever i want, and choose my fights with impunity too."
"nothing wrong with speed as it is."
"i have no problem with velocity, it's momentum that doesn't feel \"right\" with the current system. adjusting agility, scripting webbifiers for range vs strength, and boosting the webbed deceleration rates are the keys to fixing nanos in a fair manner."
"you forgot a portion of what i stated, and that's experience. a carrier can do a great deal of damage vs. noobs, and seem like a solowpwnmobile, but the moment someone who knows what they're doing enters the scene is when you'll lose your ship.same as a nano, only about 1000x times easier to kill than said carrier."
"are pirates as a whole so thoroughly incompetent that they can't kill a defenceless hauler just because they wtz? what's next, you're going to complain that your targets are allowed to fight back? um...you realize that legitimate players can take courier missions, right? for that matter, legitimate players can even sell isk. having a pack of agents located well enough to make courier missions viable seems like it's kind of the whole point of offering courier missions, and saying that it should be broken up because macroers abuse it is like saying we should ban driving because people die on the roads."
"someone once told me how another mmog does it  runescape, i think  - a random npc wanders up to someone doing some repatative task like 'fishing' and engages the player in a 'convo'.the npc wants the player to act a certain way, and typically their response has to be chosen via a visual cue system. choose the wrong item/prompt the npc teleports the player some obnoxious distance away  in eve, think... 10-20 jumps away  but doesn't otherwise damage the player  much .eve already has interractive agents in space... they should make similar agents that wander around looking for pilots doing a repetative task and engage them in a 'conversation'. if the player responds correctly they get some small bonus  skipped to their destination, or somesuch . if not, they get a surprise transfer to some system annoyingly far away."
"popping haulers on a station/gate all day is the single most boring thing in this game, more so than mining. there are far more interesting things to do, but thank you for your expert analysis.so abuse of a game mechanic is fine by you even if it's detrimental to the game as a whole?isk<>gtc is not the issue here but the sale of isk or rmt as ccp puts it. this isk is made from abusing a game mechanic but i suppose you're fine with that too.sure this might haurt the few real players who do these missions but why not just do a kill mission or is making isk for no risk the way of things to come.engage your brain for a second and try at least come up with a reasonable alternative like the gentleman after you instead of attacking an idea like a rabid dog... oh wait, this is eve-o, what was i thinking"
"i personaly think a bigger collarteral payment to the agent in the beginning and a trasport good that is actualy worth something on the market would do the trick. atm its mostly like a wast of amno and sec status since haulers are preaty cheap only some t1 cargoexpenders  and the loot is worth next to nothing. so they don<U+FFFD>t realy risk something. you shoot one, 5 minutes later he is back with a new hauler. otherwhise a flat limit on missions per agent and day would mayby make it a bit harder for the farmers, since they can<U+FFFD>t farm 23/7."
"djego has hit on what is the real problem here to me.why are these elite agents paying elite capsuleers large sums of money and lp to move worthless junk around dangerous space?it seems to me that if you want a capsuleer with a 10.0 standing to your faction to move something across lowsec, it'd better be something damn valuable to you.then l4 courier missions can be done by legitimate users. hell, even increase the rewards. only now pirates have a reason to chase you. just like every other money making activity in the game you now have to put money on the line to make money. i'd suggest trade goods that can be sold to npcs, possibly npcs from other factions only, and it should be on the order of millions of isk per mission. however, there should be an isk collateral for each mission, obviously, that's a bit more than you can get on the market now legitimate couriers can do their thing, pirates can do their thing, even macroers can continue doing their thing, but now the risk is balanced with the reward: you lose your ship on a courier run and you not only miss out on the million isk completion reward, you also lose your collateral. oh, and kane here gets to ship your cargo of holodisks to a gallentean he knows whose tastes run that way."
"sorry, no support. you've identified a real problem, but your solution  eliminate the low sec courier agents  isn't a good one.we have a problem with macro miners. would you advocate the removal of the asteroid belts and ice fields they feed upon?i'd like to see ccp come up with a proactive solution. perhaps something involving the player base. there's a lot of resentment towards script runners/macroers and ccp could put all that energy to work for them if they could present it in such a way that players could help ccp get rid of the macro problem. it isn't just pirates that suffer from the problem.best regards,windjammer"
"seems like you might be interested in supporting a suggestion to make shooting courier mission runners worthwhile. that involves the player base and puts their energy to work eradicating the problem the way they do best."
"this idea is just as good as removing tech 1 loot from the missions. these two changes in synergy would be the best thing that ever happened to the eve market."
"la vista if youre going to nerf industry by making it so it takes years for new players to compete, just say so ? ill quit now"
"what is your point? this is not a nerf.the exact point is that things like modules and ammo should stay as they are, build by minerals. but ships and the like, should be using components, just like t2 are now."
"my god no!why? we already have:7 minerals.37 salvage components35 t2 building components?? capital ship components?? t2 capital ship components?? moon minerals?? simple reactions?? complex reactions12 advanced materials17 datacores12 decryptors200+ t1 base items + meta items.??? cosmos items, bpcs, rare bpcs, ect ect ect that's left flagging untouched.7 ice based fuel products40+ commoditieswhy why why do we need another much needed level of complexity??? isn't eve the most complex damned crafting system in the mmog world as it is already???no. i can't say it loudly enough."
"only if this is accompanied by -ccp removing pre-built \"named\" t1 modules and making rats drop bpcs for them instead.-reprocessed unnamed t1 mods, instead of returning minerals, would offer the t1 components used to make the named variations.-manufacturing named t1 modules would require the appropriate bpc, requisite t1 components  depending on their meta level, the better the good the more components it requires , as well as current unnamed t1 mineral amount for that module."
"i think this is an interesting idea."
"no support. the current situation is ideal for new industrialists. building a shuttle or t1 frigate from minerals is a source of fun and pride for new industrialists. it's baby industrialists first significant step. \"i'm flying a ship i built myself\". adding another layer of complexity to the process is not a way to encourage those new to the manufacturing process.if the proposal is to have ccp \"simply make the t1 components\", how is this different from what is already done? ccp makes the asteroids from which the minerals are obtained. people can either mine the ore, purchase it or purchase the refined minerals to build a t1 ship. i may be missing something here, but that seems to be to be identical to people purchasing t1 components to build a t1 ship. also, if the t1 components are purchased from an npc entity, then you've put a nerf into the player driven aspect of the economy.if the desire is for complexity? right now complexity is broken down into steps of increasing complexity. t2 ships provide plenty of complexity. if that's still not enough for you, there's always freighter construction and if even that's not enough, there's capital construction and if you're really a masochist there's super capital's.windjammer"
"i don't think i need to tell anybody that defender missiles are completely worthless right now. i've done some thinking on the topic, and i think i've figured out a way to make them not suck, or at a minimum, suck less. put simply, throw out two fundamental assumptions about how they work - one, that they can only defend you, and two, that you can only launch one missile at a time. the first one is easy enough to fix - your target's missiles within your defender range will be targeted by your defenders, no matter who they're aiming at. hit chances will be probability-based, and you'll have a better chance of defending somebody closer to you meaning that defending yourself is best , but you'll also have the option of trying to extend missile defence across your gang. the second is a bit more complex. at the moment, all ammo-using weapons have a \"charge rate\", and it's invariably 1, meaning that they consume 1 round of ammo per activation. change this from a flat 1 to a measure of volume, and make defenders 1/3 the size they are now, so that they're tied with rockets for the smallest. for reference, current missile sizes, and the implied rate of defenders per second for a t1 launcher, are: rocket: 0.005  1 defender, 0.25 dmps light: 0.015  3 defenders, 0.2 dmps standard/0.25 dmps assault heavy assault: 0.015  3 defenders, 0.375 dmps heavy: 0.03  6 defenders, 0.4 dmps cruise: 0.05  10 defenders, 0.454 dmps torpedo: 0.1  20 defenders, 1.111 dmps citadel: 0.3  60 defenders, 1.25 dmps this produces a progression roughly in line with fitting costs, and the number of missiles needed to fight off a target of appropriate size. torpedo launchers are a little too good, but that's hard to fix, and given that they have by far the highest fitting requirements of the subcapital launchers, it's tolerable. citadel torpedoes are lower in dmps than named/t2 torpedoes, but they're in desperate need of a buff anyways, so i'll wave my hands and assume that buff makes this problem go away. missiles would aim at targets in succession, hitting the first until it dies, with the surviving defenders carrying on to attack the next, and so forth. also, with the increased number of defenders flying, the missile hp totals will have to be adjusted accordingly. make each missile require being hit by its own weight in defenders to die - meaning that a rocket will be stopped by one, but a citadel torpedo will require 60 hits. give t2 missiles double the hp of t1 missiles, just to give people a slight extra reason to use them. i intend that the ideal-conditions both immobile, defending yourself  hit rate for defenders will be 70-80%, meaning that you can negate an average of 70-80% of an opponent's missile fire with an identically fit ship firing nothing but defenders. this would drop to 35-40% against t2 ammo, of course. i am under no impression that defender missiles would be actually good under this plan. tank, especially this sort of statistical tank that comes right out of your dps, is inferior to gank in most circumstances. defenders would be the thing of utility highs on the megathron and tempest, or the sort of thing your local raven might switch to if you have an ally in deep structure heading to station for repairs. their role is a bad one in most cases, and it should remain so, lest it completely eliminate missile warfare. however, while they may have a bad role, they should not be bad at their role. this seems like the best plan i can think of to attain that ideal.tl;dr: defender missiles fire in bunches at any in-flight missiles the target has within range."
"that's a bit too complex for defenders, overall.i agree that they should be smaller, but they should be able to be loaded into all launchers and should have a base rof  independant of the launcher they're loaded into  of 3s modified by skills down to 2 seconds. their range should be quite far, 75-100km, with a velocity of 10 km/s.since we don't want to bog the server down with defender ai the defender should have a target the moment it's launched and if that target  missile  is destroyed all subsequent defenders seeking it simply pop.i agree that missiles should have a certain amount of resistance to defenders, but not 60 for a citadel... 1 defender for rockets/lights, 2 for ham/heavies, 3 for cruise, 4 for torps, 6 for capital torps & bombs.since few are likely to be running around with a full rack of bays loaded with defenders there is no expectation that their efficiency would be greater than 20-30%. likewise, defenders can miss  and do this a lot. they seldom work within 30km simply due to their flight behavior and velocity .a launcher with defenders loaded can be 'activated', remaining in a readied state except when cloaked  just like active modules such as hardeners  and responds immediately to incoming ordinance. it does not count as 'aggression', however.a new skill should be introduced under leadership:defense operations  6 : skill at the operation of defensive systems. lowers the damage recieved to all members of the screened group by 2% per level. when using defender missiles allows the interception of enemy missles for one squad per level, within the range of the defending vessel.each level of this skill allows the defensive screening of one squad. the defensive screen pilot must be assigned as wing booster.there is no 'advanced' version of this skill or ganglink  that's the missile bay in use  to increase the damage reduction more than 10%."
"i don't think it's all that complex, really. defender missiles fire in bunches at any in-flight missiles the target has within range. as for 60 being too many for a citadel, a max-skill phoenix can fire an average of 1 citadel every 12 seconds, neglecting bcus. a kestrel fit with t2 launchers can fire 1 defender every 0.72 seconds, again neglecting bcus. at that rate, it would take less than 4 kestrels to match the phoenix's rate of fire, and probably 5-6 to statistically stop it cold depending on the exact formula . a raven fit with t2 torp launchers can put up a defender every 0.081 seconds, or 148 for every citadel the phoenix can launch, thus virtually negating a dreadnought, perhaps even two. 60 defenders isn't a lot, when put in context. actually, it's so few i'm almost tempted to say a siege module should raise the hp of the missiles you fire while using one. as for them missing due to flight mechanics, that's an easy one -change the flight mechanics. it's not an unreasonable expectation that the fiddly little things at least work. as for your proposal, of making defenders identical whatever the launcher, it's not a bad solution, though i still prefer the one i proposed above. the leadership bit seems hacky though - i want defenders to work for everyone, not just the wing booster. also, i dislike throwing around a change as fundamental as a 10% bonus to all resistances in the game to fix a problem as small and confined as defender missiles."
"oh, hey, golley gee! i can put a thumbs up on things i think should be looked at.okay, what about things i disagree with? where's the 'thumbs down' option???"
"agreed. though some of this will be addressed if changes to artillery and a few other ships are pushed threw balancing as a whole has left most caldari and minmatar ships nearly incapable of performing any viable role in pvp.the ship balancing should by no means be limited to those two races though. many ships seem to fall out of the realm of usefulness. others are completely against the story of how the races exist.example: eve chronicle: the war drones on\"the caldari mounted a series of raids into federation territory, which the gallenteans in their slow and cumbersome ships were ill equipped to meet.\"the caldari ships are more often than not slower than their gallente counterparts though they do often have a slight agility advantage it's nothing worth mentioning. the minmatar ships are supposed to be the fastest of the ships and occasionally fail here too. not a big issue but when the ship is the slowest of the 4 versions and the crappiest tank with the worst guns it gets to be a problem.i fail to see how a race with the fastest ships would also have the slowest tracking weapons. isn't that counter intuitive to the weapons and ships themselves? as oppose to the ammar having the slowest ships and fastest tracking speeds?"
"agreed.ccp should look at the entire spectrum of ships and examine those that are not seeing any utilization, and then try to discover why.the burst, for example, or the bantam.and then look at how each race's technologies reflect their overall scheme such as what you just pointed out... fast ships with slow-tracking weapons. ofc, said race with the fast ships also focuses on slowing down their enemies to be within the slow tracking of their guns... well, except for the large ones that operate outside that envelope.also look at modules that are little used, and why. reinforced bulkheads, for example. i've never, in 4 years, run across a single ship using them. hull repairers, as well... 1/4 the repair amount of an armor repper, with 4x the cycle time  which works out to 1/16 the efficiency of armor/shield reps . and yet there is a race that focuses on hull tanking, so why are they penalized with a completely useless tanking scheme?yes, ccp, look into the overall race balancing vs/ their 'racial technologic specialties'."
"there is currently a broken game mechanic being exploited to avoid pvp in areas where pvp is supposed to be happening.detailed thread herethe suggestions in the thread are just that, suggestions. if better ideas appear, i'm for that, just something needs to be done.tl;drjumping into a system and logging before your cloak breaks means that hostile players have only one minute to probe and destroy you regardless of your non-gcc player aggro flags. this is broken in regards to players with player aggression flags and with ships with large hp buffers. it's further complicated by logging on an alt on the same account.please get it addressed."
"agreed, there is a major game fault where the player can escape the 15m aggression timer by simply jumping to another system which immediate voids the entire countdown and once they logoff they disappear 60s later.also, logging in & out resets the ship's position making probing down their log-off point nearly impossible. the ship should not move from its logoff point until it has come out of warp  at the location if its first log-off  whereupon it attempts to emergency warp again. the 60s 'vanish' timer should not begin until the ship comes out of login warp."
"xerox, it's my understanding that whether the issue gets addressed or not is based on the votes for it in the thread.need you to show support m8 if you agree ;p"
".... the nerfs! by gods, the nerfs and the uselessness of it all!reduce or eliminate some/all of the idiot nerfs choking the usability of t2 ammo over insanely cheap faction ammo  all the upsides, none of the crappy nerfs .reduce the penalties that stack and make it progressively worse to fit all of your weapons with ammo!"
"the problem isn't with all t2 ammo. people are perfectly willing to absorb some penalties when the reward is something you couldn't otherwise do. for example, barrage and null allow you to do something that is impossible with any other ammo type - engage at mid range. totally worth it.hail and void on the other hand, just allow you to do what you normally do  shoot people in the face  slightly better, and with gigantic penalties. totally not worth it - the slight damage boost over faction variants just isn't special.i think that t2 ammo should be about doing something that normal ammo cannot. what that is, i don't know, but \"a bit more damage\" just doesn't seem worth it. high tracking short range ammo, aka \"flak\" rounds or something? different damage types? crazy alpha low rof \"overloaded\" ammo? it has to be something special enough that it gives you a new option with that weapon system, but not obsolete other ammo types. and not feel like some kind of \"trick shot\" nonsense. not something that's easy to tweak, but i'd support a review of t2 ammo with this aim in mind."
"i have felt this way for a long time"
"t2 short range ammo for guns is fairly useless. t2 missiles seem to be fairly bad across the board."
"yes, void is utter crap. fix it."
"definately supported.most long range ammo is resonable, but the rest is worthless.i've listed my ideas here:"
"omgi dont know how many ppl said this in my last post in another forumits not thatlook at it this way:i train for fighters and i train for them well, i must get interfacing/adv interfacing etc.it wld be rather silly of me to just ignore heavies/sentries as i have such uber drone support skillsso of course one wil trian 4 them if their a carrier pilot.and it sux that not one sub-cal cal ship can field even 4 heavies/sentries.i dont want an uber drone boati just want a regular drone boat like every other race hase.g phoon, are minmatar a drone race? no, they can use 5 heaviesgeddon, are ammar a drone race? no, they can use 5 heaviesgallente of course field 5 heaviescaldari..cantand if u use the excuse: gallente are opposite to caldari and hence shldnt use similar weaponswhy do they have missile boats then?e.g. lach, erisplz stop repeating what others are saying..damn"
"why do any caldari ships have drone bays at all then?huh, huh?you're not exactly comparing like for like, are you?"
"afaik you don't need heavy drone skill for carriers... if you don't use heavy drones that is. however you still need to train all drone support skills etc. in a way carrier training needs a lot of otherwise useless skills for caldari pilot, which kind of sucks. one reason i'm not really training for a carrier.however, caldari ships don't really need drones. i hate drones. seriously. if there's an issue with capital ships it's that you don't really have any nice capital ship types which make use of caldari skills.  effective ewar capabilities or something taking count on skills etc.  phoenix = pos bomber = boredom, chimera = need to train drone skills"
"so your complaint is that after you've trained carriers, you'll want to use the requisite skills you trained on non-carrier ships, and despite the fact that you can do so on a majority of caldari ships, the fact that you can't use them enough is enough to warrant beefing up one of three ships that really don't need it. might i ask, what's your stance on advanced spaceship command? it's a rank 5 skill you need to max to train carriers, just like drone interfacing, only instead of it helping the majority of your caldari ships, it helps exactly two of them. do you want a boost to freighters, so that you can better make use of your newfound support skills?"
"this is a very interesting fix for bombs, but it's the wrong fix for defenders."
"by intention bombs were supposed to be anti-blob, not anti-cap and came pre-nerfed to not be overpowered. if anything they need area of effect radius boost."
"edit stealth bombers so that each has 90% resist to their racial damage type. they are now pre-engineered to use a specific bomb with less risk."
"how about non covert ops ships require fuel to stay cloaked, and make it so cloaking lasts half hour max on non force recons/ stealth bombers/black ops  ie cloak fuel usage bonus on said ships  there fore it would still be usefull for evading people but not possible to afk cloak a ship without seriously gimping ur setup  hugin with cargo expanders? ."
"this same idea inevitably comes up every time someone mentions balancing cloaks. and i always reply the same way.cloaks power themselves by disabling every other module onboard. that's why there is no cap draw, because they are siphoning off the power from the other modules.if it were ever implemented, that a cloak has to use cap or fuel... then i'd imagine a great many people would want to fight under cloak at that point. as it stands, we're paying for the invisibility by way of inactivity. if we have to pay for stealth with cap or fuel, then we should get combat ability returned to compensate. then you can obliterate ships unseen for as long as your cap/fuel lasts.my own take on a \"fix\" for the afk/cloak issue, has seen some strife in f&i. maybe some of you would like to look it over, and consider my ideas.main points being:1  change local from an immediate channel, to a delayed list. then a spy who doesn't say anything, won't be displayed at all.2  afk timer implementation. if a player is nonresponsive for 20min, they are marked afk in corp chat. if they remain unresponsive for 1hr, they are auto-d/c'd.3  hunter module created to locate cloaked ships in immediate vicinity. doesn't decloak them, nor does it allow target lock. only distance from you, allowing for proper triangulation and \"bumping\" to reveal them.4  bubble anchorable created to decloak vessels passing through aoe. bubble can not intersect a stargate, or an interdictor bubble, preventing implementation as another gate camp toy."
"oh, the dreaded afk cloakers, they can terrify entire regions without even doing a thing it's not the cloakers that need fixing, it's the local chat."
"afk cloaking is a definately broken system, to be sure.there should be a pos module that can 'pulse' an entire system and decloak all ships, but without deactivating the module. the pilot must turn the module off and cycle it back on to re-cloak  this to prevent macro's from noting that the cloak has turned off .inactivity timers need to be implemented as well, but should have random requirements to avoid activity-spoof macros. once inactive for a certain period of time in space the client shuts down.a triangulation module should also be available but require a good bit of time  skills required being the same used for exploration . 1m to detect that a cloaked ship is within 1000km. 5m to get a direction. 10m to get a range. 15m to get a fix solid enough to see a ship 'icon' and approach it. it cannot be locked, of course, until the scanning ship gets close enough to decloak both of them.only cloaked ships can scan for cloaked ships in this way.this is solely to eliminate purely afk pilots. active pilots will note active measures being used to track them down and move."
"how does your pos module decide if the cloaker is afk or not ?"
"i'm sorry, i can't support the op on this issue.i have no problem with having an \"afk\" timer of some type and think it would be good for the servers but the ability to probe, even with the slightest chance, destroys 2 classes of ships and causes more harm imho than good. with local giving you perfect intel, you absolutely know someone is there hence any alterations to probing cloaked ships is a huge nerf.cloaks are the only counter to probes. the problems with probes related to cloaks are:1  probes can give 100% accuracy in location, that location is the given as a result is the position of the ship when the scan ended2  cycle times can be brought down to under 40 seconds.3  cloaked ships are really slow  except for sbs . meaning the targetted ship doesn't have time to move far enough after the initial hit to avoid a mwd-approaching ship after the second probe is dropped. since only covert op-equipped ships can warp cloaked, all others are hence easily caught.so for a cloak to still be an effective module, the potential of actually probing a cloaked ship will have to be so low that the long range probes will be effectively worthless and won't get a hit anyways.who cares if you can find a non-covert cloak you say? what about lowsec/0.0 exploration where you spend hours trying to find one site? that also kills the \"fuel\" idea; you could never carry enough fuel to effectively find any exploration site. my final thought on the whole thing is that whenever i read a \"someone is cloaked in our space and we can't rat/mine alone\" i have 0 sympathy. even in empire we fly with cover ships when we are mining, why aren't you? if its the \"we don't have enough people on\", again i think \"whaaaaaaa\"."
"how can someone who is afk and unable to engage anything be an issue?what the op means is people who may be afk, but they could just quite as easily be sneaking up behind them as we speak.exciting, huh?the problem is your fear, and i think eve would be less of a game if we deprived you of it."
"it doesn't. as i said, it decloaks every ship in the system  but does not 'deactivate' their cloaking module . an afk pilot will be left vulnerable while an aware pilot will respond and cycle his cloaking module.this should also halt shield regeneration and cap regeneration. on larger ship it should actually drain the cap, though only down to 40% or so... because you're trying to hide something really really big. capitals should not even be able to fit a cloak at all... they're just too doggone big to hide."
"this.nerfing the local will fix your afk cloaker conundrum. go vote in the appropriate thread."
"yeah... and then everybody in eve is stuck spamming the scan button every two seconds until they are forced to quit because they've developed a repetative-motion-injury in their mouse hand.leave local out of this particular thread, it's about cloaking  and being 'afk' in general ."
"if you had bothered to read the serious \"nerf local\" proposals, including the direction identified by ccp, you'd have known that a completely reworked ship's scanner is considered a mandatory part of the package.i maintain that nerfing the local is the perfect solution to the op's 'complaint', as the \"afk cloaker\" would lose the ability to passively monitor the system, and the reworked ship's scanner would, at some limited range, identify a cloak signature."
"are you aware you are posting this in the wrong topic ? this is about afk cloakers ... if you want to screw cloaks in general, you can as well remove them from game."
"the only people out to completely screw over a cloak... are the folks arguing in favor of an anti cloak pos module. which i am completely against, in case you were wondering.1  local allows anyone, anywhere, to see who else is in the system. so you can sit cloaked in a safe spot, and monitor all traffic effortlessly. that rules out the necessity for probes of any kind being required for surveillance.local also allows anyone, anywhere, to see who shouldn't be in the system with you. when every face is marked as friendly... except one, then you know there is a spy in your midst.that's why local is part of the afk/cloak problem. if someone is afk, and cloaked... but you couldn't see them in local because they were smart enough not to speak in the channel... then the paranoia goes away.2  afk needs a timer. it's a standard feature on every other mmo. there is nothing in eve that requires your presence, but not your interaction. so there is no reason why people should be allowed to \"exist\" in game for 23 hours a day, without actually doing something during that time.some would argue that a 50+ ap route in a freighter could take far longer than an afk timer would allow... but give me a break! are you honestly going to leave your freighter unattended for that long, for that many jumps, with the evergrowing risk of suicide gankers?3  cloaks are indeed the counter to probes. and their current implementation more than justifies the immunity to long range detection. however, i do believe that a very short range hunter module would be more than adequate for an added challenge... without completely stripping them of their usage.if you have secured a remote safe spot far from the beaten path... then there is no hope of finding out where you are. and that's perfectly reasonable, given the \"covert\" nature of such activities.but a spy trying to creep amongst the fleet should have more to worry about that the 2km \"bump\" zone.which is why i devised my astrometric hunter module. the best hunters would be other covops ships for one thing. and the fact that the module only displays distance... not heading, direction, or especially allowing for a target lock... means that the hunters will have to work for their prey.4 ships, working in tandem, can devise the location of a spy, and an interceptor could move to \"intercept\". much better balance i believe, than a pos toaster oven that neutralizes everything in the solar system.so... local is very much a part of this argument. it is the reason people are aware of a spy in the system. and it is the same reason that spy can function without any real effort on their part either.fix local, implement afk timers, and implement the hunter module... and everyone will be better for it."
"the issue is the abuse of local. if you didn't see their name in local you wouldn't be so unnerved by it and make it an [issue]."
"grow a spine?if you're getting this annoyed about it and refusing to do anything, then the valid tactic seems to be working fine.it's not like one lone cov-ops is going to be doing you any damage any time soon, is it?"
"but... the piwates are scared.actually, it's somewhat a valid argument. who's to say that extra face on your local chat is just a covops... or a carrier/titan laying in waiting.i'm not arguing against psyops against the pirates... because it amuses me to no end that they'll develop such a psychosis they'd be willing to invest in any module or device to reveal the boogeyman and the evils under their beds. but the fact remains that cloaks are being abused. it's one thing to use them for simple spying... since that is in fact their original function. it's another to hide a titan, and not suffer any rebuttal when you decloak and immediately dd the area.before anyone starts up with the \"nerf capital cloaking\" or some crap...it's quite logical, in the advancement of technology, that something as simple as my hunter module would eventually be devised.it's a simple sensor, the detects the gravity distortion generated by a cloak. you have to be very close to the source, so you can't just probe them out from anywhere in the system. but you can find out if someone is hiding from you close by.i will always vote against anything that resembles an \"anti-cloak iwin button\". but i still think that the technology of war will always advance to meet the damands of the battlefield... and this is one possibility that is overdue."
"supported... i got a corp m8 that wrote a real \"fun\" bio for his character and it just got cut of at less than half of its length... : "
"i wholly endorse removing the idiotic cropping of bios.there should be a little radio button at the bottom of the bio window that says 'expand bio', so the player can have a short bio  what we have now - that shows how many characters you have used , and then an extended bio for whatever reason."
"i took this up with the csm last sunday and it got escalated for discussion in the formal meeting with ccp. fingers crossed we should get a substantive response on the issue and hopefully get our bios unnerfed."
"post constructively. ~saint"
"fully endorsed.you've spent hours tracking down a site, it should put out.also, concerning gravimetric sites; once their ore capacity has been reduced below 25% it should no longer show up on multispectral scans.tracking one down only to find 3 rocks left, with single digit quantities, after some hours of work is worse than finding an empty can."
"raised this to the csm and the issue passed 7-2 so we'll be adding it to the formal agenda for direct discussion with ccp."
"wouldn't it be a better use of time to figure out ways to encourage people to fight in locations other than stations.i have seen discussion that the war declaration mechanics need a change because they are too easy to be used to grief, i don't see how making it easier for people to score kills when camping stations is any less of the problem with that when you get an overview of war targets or reds outside the station waiting for one person to pop out. or rather more likely one baiting and the rest mostly ready to warp in.i think the gangs that station camp someone in are more of a problem than their annoyance with their plan backfiring and getting killed and their target escaping.i've been in a few gangs that have waited at a station to kill enemies and it is a turkey shoot unless they have an intel channel."
"imo - if you've got a 15m flag for aggroing someone that you're not at war with, you should not be able to dock for the duration.sentries should do random things besides just shoot  they're so pitiful that they're ignored by anything larger than a frig . they should cap drain, ecm, or whatever, but not by race. whatever a sentry does should just be randomly cycled.also; cynos should not be allowed within 200km of a gate or station  it's far enough away to allow the cyno'd ship to warp-to, but not so close they can instajump/dock ."
"not in a sexual way the ships and modules forum section bothers me as the ship index stickie is litterally swamped with locked topics.would it be the end of the world to lift the 90 day inactive lock thingie just for that forum ?"
"it's completely illogical that vanquishing an enemy  and suffering the requisite standing drop to that faction  does not likewise raise your standing with your faction equally  thus, the standing loss cannot be huge but the gain must equal the loss otherwise you're being too heavily penalized for joining fw. the adjustments should be small to prevent meteoric rise/fall situations. "
"there is always one that has to act like a moron"
"i agree with this.no ship, even the lowly nuub frig, should have a locking range less than 25-30km, period."
"hell yes!and reloading too"
"i'm in favor of something like this, it obviously has a number of issues to be worked out but i think it has alot of merit. trade right now is way too focused around jita, and anything to decentralize trading is a good thing, and i think the idea of giving players the ability to set up small trade hubs would be a great way to do that  especially in terms of spreading out mining etc. "
"currently three implant sets recieve rather substantial bonuses to attributes modified by existing items beyond the implants themselves.i am speaking of the snake  speed , slave  armor , crystal  shield boost  which currently recieve a 33%+ and 54%+ bonus for low and standard respectively. currently for speed there are some 20 items that increase the speed, or capability of attaining higher speed, which can affect a ship. likewise with armor amount and shield boost amount.as there are so many items to further compound the bonuses given by these implants, why are they so high compared to:talisman and halo implant sets.currently there are no modules, rigs, boosters, or anything other than a couple of skills and ship bonuses that affect the attributes boosted by talisman  energy emission  and halo  signature radius  implant sets... yet the bonuses provided by these implants are so low as to be inconsequential when taken into account against the attributes they boost  17% and 33% respectively .currently i only make use of slave implants, so it's not a rant concerning implants i actually do use... i merely want to know why the heavily-affected bonuses are so substantial and the negligably-affected bonuses are so weak.as for a fix:reduce the bonuses granted by snake and slave to 17% and 33%, as there are so many other items & skills that affect the same ship attributes. []bor remove the attribute bonuses entirely. reduce the crystal bonuses to 20% & 40%.increase the talisman & halo implant bonuses to 33%/54%, as they have no other adjustments whatsoever. or[/b] increase the attribute bonuses to +3/+5 respectively to give them some use value."
"supported"
"the ultimate solution to this problem would be a drone macro language. let it see hostilities, ewar, and firing on you, your allies, and your drones, and logistics on your hostiles, and issue attack/follow/return/scoop commands accordingly. it's a bit ambitious and a lot unlikely, but it'd be the right answer here. i'd ideally like to see a similar thing for ships, but anything past logitech g15 level would probably make things way too easy on people who afk macro you know, the bad kind . my fantasies aside, however, the short-term solution you propose sounds relatively good. drone options, and hotkeys for them."
"when you join our corp you are encouraged to ninja salvage. furthermore, not everyone in our corp does pvp. we have a few people who are really good at it, a few okay people, and several crappy pvp-ers like myself.  the last group generally sits back and salvages, and we make quite decent moneys doing it. ps. train asometrics to 4 xd it will help "
"i was a little harsh on my response, and i appreciate the clarification.as our member mentioned, we promote ninja salvaging and looting as a profession, so you'll never get warned about it.  ...although you might get warned if you don't. "
"unlike most sn members, i invade missions and loot wrecks often just for the aggro. not always, but often.and i make it most obvious. i'll approach only loot containing wrecks, nick the goods and lazily orbit you until you shoot.once fired upon i warp off to get the shootin' ship. gives you plenty of time to warp off to get your shootin' ship. or call in your corp mates as i am flagged to your entire corp. there are other options to pop us without suiciding yourself."
"just as a matter of interest, what do you use as a shootin' ship, dotard?"
"wardec corp alt detected!kidding. i'm sure the big dog'll be in here shortly."
"i'm pretty new to eve and have not really done much pvp; it's definitely not a requirement to join the corp  although you will have to be on constant alert for war targets, which makes everything more fun . personally i spend 95% of my time salvaging and looting."
"well, we got the benifits of learning skills already as older players. so the ones who will suffer is the newer players. if they are simply given learning skills or those attributes are automatically added in - then the mid-range players suffer. so its not as simple as removing them.also, while it does help to train learning skills - it has been said time and time again that 'basic skills' should be trained first and then after you are in your thorax or caracal or whatever, then you can train learning skills while you practice your races and learn the game. . .it all seems perfectly fine to me.do i hate learning skills? yes. should they have been introduced, no. shoulld they be removed? no."
"yes, well... if they remove the learning skills and just give everybody +10 to all stands and reduce training time by 20% then i want those months i spent training them up reimbursed by the handing over the number of sp i would normally accumulate in that time with my current stats  1.7m sp/mo on my strongest attrib pair .i started when you were doing *good* to start out with 90k sp and frig/gunnery 4. now newbs can start with almost 1m sp and get into a t2 frig w/ t2 guns almost right out of char gen. that's 2 months of early training before the learning skills alone, or 1 month once you've gotten the basic learning skills done.so, new players are *already* boosted into the game by 3-6 months over where i began, and now you want to boost them another 3 months by eliminating the learning timesink?cover the old schoolers who started before all of these newb buffs and i'll be fine with it."
"i think eve needs a smoother transition from the actual newbie tutorial and then the rest of the game.i think the agent mission system from levels 1-3 should actually *teach* about the game mechanics, and not just send you flying around space. isn't that an interesting concept?! for example, you might get a skillbook as a reward and then some description about how it works. maybe you'd need to use a particular skill along the way... something to that effect.the problem with eve is that it has a huge learning curve. that's really not a *bad* problem -- it's more fun than being simplistic. but it is also a deterrent to new players, one that ccp should be eager to resolve, if only from a bottom-line standpoint.but it would also make the game more fun for the rest of you if a way can be found to teach people more of the fundamentals before they are doing l4 missions without knowing what a target painter is or how to use one."
"*thumbs up*"
"i'm sorry, lia gaeren, but you apparently do not understand how to play a mmorpg. in short, you have played eve incorrectly. please delete your character and start over, and play the game properly this time.1. create only the race/class/schools that are going to give you the leg up you need for day 1.2. train all learning skills in the exact order as dictated by evemon. it's best if you can set aside a week or two to be at your computer 24/7.3. only train skills necessary for the particular task you are going to perform. it is best if you can narrow this down exactly ahead of time, including exactly which mods you will equip on your ship. 4. have absolutely no fun whatsoever, this is not allowed./sarcasmi agree entirely, lia gaeren. i don't agree with the op because they are a little too #4 for my taste. and i don't really agree with the idea of removing learning skills  i like the idea of adding new ones though, or even a tertiary  new  attribute to skills! . learning skills are a great time sink for players who like time sinks and min-maxing and being uber efficient. there are lots of you, and that's okay. for the rest of us, they are an interesting way to speed things up at some distant point in the future but i'm not losing any sleep over it.last night i was training eidetic memory but i decided i wanted to play with a destroyer  heresy!  and so i trained up destroyers real quick! i know, i'm a total noob. i did something i thought would be fun. shoot me!"
"recently as the council have worked it's way trough the community's concerns, we have hit a large pile of balancing issues.several people, including me, expressed concern about this during the last meeting. i discussed this issue on our internal mailing list, which received no feedback for some absurd reason, and suggested a course of action for it.it's obvious that the community cares about balancing. so the csm should of course raise it. but the concern is that balancing issues do not require discussion as much as a stock exchange, for instance. the idea being put forward, is a list of issues which are marked a \"response only\", meaning that the council would like an answer to the specific ideas being put forward and possibly a \"yes, we will do this, we just can't say when\" answer. this means we are able to deliver a good bunch of balancing issues and get an answer on them, without having to spend 20 minutes that was the time spent on each issue in iceland .the major issue about this, as i see it, is that it doesn't facilitate discussion as much as i would like it. but we do have a limited amount of time, so we have to consider that.i think the best solution is to add a clause, saying that if ccp does not agree with an issue put forward, time should be allocated for this issue to come to an alternative solution.this means we will get a list of issues which will be passed onto ccp, and only if ccp is not happy with it, we can discuss it further. the rest of the answers should simply be posted as a part of the minutes, as an official response from ccp.what do you people think?"
"i mean, really, how hard is it to make a t2 industrial hull with 8 high slots and a bonus to tractor range/speed and salvager duration/chance?8 highs, no 'weapon' points, with decent speed and moderate cargo  on par with blockade runners .marauders went a long, long way toward making cleanup a lot easier, but they are still very limited as 4 of those highs are guns, slowing their cleanup down to about the same speed as a dedicated salvage destroyer."
"name calling isn't going to progress discussion very far. in fact, such actions could be considered in breach of forum rules, and in direct conflict with the 'higher' expected behaviour of csm members and those with positions within the csm. read the documents carefully, unless of course you are thinking about changing these sections also?"
"amazing... i stopped playing eve over a year ago only to return and find this still goes on... i guess it always will.for my 2 pence worth i think it is good that a 'consumer' group has been established although i'm not sure of the mechanisms yet... good luck to you guys but expect, as always, you will never please everyone."
"i'm a ****ing eve superstar"
"i agree completely. to make a place in space more unique. that<U+FFFD>s the atmosphere."
"/signed"
"yeah, i run 3x 21\" widescreens and currently i have to run a separate client on each one. being able to unanchor parts from the client and move them to a second monitor would be stellar, though i'd still want to be able to run multiple clients."
"must... have... more...pixels...."
"i would like to use 3 screens ot be honest :p"
"quad monitor support for me blazing fire ceo interstellar operations incorporated corp web site services [service] killboard hosting [service] forum hosting [service] web site hosting [service] alliance creation"
"i really love the idea of black ops and despite all the issues surrounding them i'm training for one nonetheless  i like to buck the trend  . there really is a need for a good look at them and all the issues raised here, not just the ones listed in the original discussion summary. it's simply \"not eve\" when you have something that doesn't perform any role."
"this would be a good role for a dedicated salvage vessel. 8 high slots  no hardpoints  for tractors/salvagers/cloak. insanely high sig res to compensate for the reduction caused by the nerf  otherwise will never be able to target a wreck . a high-resistance tank and decent speed & cargo  3000 m/3 base ."
"i'd love bos to be able to use cynos into jammed sistems but make cyno visible, it's a cynojammed sistem afterall.jumping to the sun in any sistem in range is unrealistic.. or any variant not involving prior cyno."
"covert cyno should be able so that a small cov op gang can be brought in.starjumping is an interesting idea that will open a range of new tactics fore this ship class, specially that it will work without another player"
"i support this : "
"i'd love to be able to move rigged ships in some way. the issue isn't so much with battleships, i can understand if they are too big to fit more than 1 in a freighter, but for all the small stuff that would be safe to move solo anyway, i don't see a reason not to allow it."
"/signed"
"this.blazing fire ceo interstellar operations incorporated corp web site services [service] killboard hosting [service] forum hosting [service] web site hosting [service] alliance creation"
"/signed"
"no, jump cloning is already way way too overpowered. you should not be able to move around 0.0 with this much ease, especially with npc 0.0 base to dock out of.the only possible way i'd support more jump clones is if the station you left saw the destruction of the clone in that station upon jump, thus requiring more thought before jumping.as it stands right now, jump clones not only allow too much ease of movement and unnatural and traditional bases out of npc 0.0 all around the galaxy, they also allow easier protection of expensive clones. got a fleet fight, well just hop on out of those expensive snakes and into your cheap fleet clone. it removes too much of the risk/reward aspect of the game."
"it would be nice to have something happen with this since they aren't being reimbursed as there is an upcoming fix. this is a great example of how a little visibility to items in process would help your standings with the people who pay your salaries and promote your game.it is frustrating to have this issue be a year+ old with end in sight and no options for reimbursement for those that have these \"white elephants\"."
"agreed.cov ops cloaks should make the few ships that can fit them pretty much impossible to find... though some mechanics should be put in place to thwart them as there is zero counter beyond sheer dumb luck.normal cloaks should only reduce the ship's signature radius, not make it outright invisible to sensors. a 90-95% reduction in signature radius would make it adequite, reducing a raven down to a sig of about 5. not impossible to find, but not easy by far. likewise when the scanning ship warps to them they don't show up on overview, forcing the pilot to look out into space visually to find the cloak shimmer somewhere out there."
"well, thank you for spitting in the proverbial face of ccp.if you haven't noticed, ccp releases these \"huge complex expansions\" to add new features, ships, modules, etc. would you prefer if they did it in little chunks, or not at all?a graphical fix such as that is not entirely important either. maybe they fire missiles like subs do. open a port and out they come. maybe people don't care.stick to complaining about losing a ship and forgetting insurance existed. you  and me, but in a good way  are being rude and it isn't warranted. or we could drop eve and play swg, where everything is messed up thanks to the players whining about things too much."
"i suspect this is something that will be addressed in the special effects update that's coming sometime in the future, but in case it isn't, it totally should be done"
"agreed.a simple fix would be to have the missiles ejected from a bay much as they are on todays contemporary fighter aircraft, and then ignite a short distance from the ship. a simple rotating magazine would fit the bill perfectly.as for graphics 'striking' the target but missing... that's not so bad. seeing a fleet of npc's waving laser beams about like flashlights, no where near my ship but scoring a hit is likewise rather lame though i suspect it does cut down on server load not having to calculate trajectories as the weapons on player ships do."
"this is an old issue and it sure made me sad when trinity came out and we still saw no missile hardpoints, i doubt we ever will.. sad though, missile effects could use some love though, to at least make it seem more realistic instead of just missiles just poofin' outta the center of the ship.."
"then by all means plz support the thread :d"
"wow, ppl really love trolling..but i dont see how i \"spat in the preverbial face of ccp\"???"
"i spose the guns hitting while missing isnt so bad, but i do like your idea for the missile cming out then firing, wld be easier for ccp that way :d"
"i don't know if it's ever going to change, but can ccp continue to completely ignore 30+ pages of agree posts?+1"
"le sigh. another rant about npc corps and corp-hopping as though this hasn't been done to death.so, why do you feel that this cements solidarity? they're far more like to quit after that week, which will have been spent docked, due to the idiot that got them into the war in the first place... corp solidarity is thanks to the corp, not game mechanics.changing corp is perfectly valid. if you want a war with no restrictions, low-sec and 0.0 are out there and waiting.let me reiterate. this is a game. people play it the way they want to. they will not go and get shot by you just because you want a fight. real fights are available, go seek them instead of pursuing individuals."
"agreed, the procuror has about as much use as... as... a burst!i.e. no use at all. in fact, a burst can almost equal it's mining output  sarcasm , but a crappy miner in a scythe/osprey can flat outmine it without half trying. in fact, a crappy miner in a mining cruiser can almost equal a retriever.how about keeping the 1 strip miner, but giving the procuror a minor industrial role... give it the ability to compress ore. only one 'factory' slot, it does not need to be in anchored mode, and takes 2x the time to compress ore.or allow it to immediately refine what it mines at 40% plus skills  to 95%  efficiency  ore never lands in the hold, the minerals do .also, all mining barges need 2 more highslots  utility , more pg/cpu  esp the mackinaw!!!! , and the ability to actually kill something if attacked  such as a frig or maybe even a t1 cruiser ."
"medium/heavy mining drones...procurer/skiff = drone boatideas?"
"yes... yes it does suck. having it available to be invented into the skiff does not seem like enough justification."
"aye, the procurer is a terrible ship.the problem is a bit endemic of mining barges in general, but the procurer is the worst off because it really has no role because there are many other ships that can do the same thing it does at:1. lower cost2. less training timethis makes the miner in me cry big salty emo tears.perhaps it can be turned into the official low-sec mining barge? increase it's agility, add a second high-slot for a cloak, something like that."
"the procuror is absolutely pathetic. at least with every other \"worthless\" ship there is some redeeming factor, this one has none.there was a thread on it a few months back with one of the devs chiming in saying they were looking at it. things being rattled around were:1  lowsec ninja-miner. increased agility and speed, maintain most of the current stats. possible bonus to cloakig devices.2  bulk miner. large cargo hold, still one strip miner.3  dedicated veld boat, much like its t2 cousin.not sure where it should go, but it definately needs something."
"yeah, the procurer is pretty pointless."
"making it a ninjaminer would be good, although it would be pretty useless in lowsec unless they make the lowsec ores more valuable than the hisec ones."
"possibly the single most useless ship in eve, it needs anything to make it usable. seriously."
"give it heavy bonuses to mining low ends. heavy as end better at mining veld than a hulk and maybe it would see use. that is a massive bonus though.i support the procurer = drone boat miner."
"since no one reads more than the last 2 posts anyways.\"i don't care about the whole thread, just what the last guy said... i'll respond to that!\""
"/signageit does indeed suck big-time but it's such a cute little thing it'd e a shame to dump it completely so it needs overhauling bigtime"
"i will only support this proposed local change iff:-the ship scanner that is built-in into ships currently is made more user-friendly-that there is some sort of visual cue as to being scanned by such a scanner"
"supported... but..constellation chat sounds like a great idea but then there needs to be something done about spammers especially for jita.... in jita constellation chat there would be way on top of 1.5k people and local spammers would be happy about that...plz dont get me wrong im just afraid of the empire constellations with more than 1k ppl in therei can remember once ccp had something like a global chat which you could close but autojoined after login  at least for the first time  ... that was awful"
"boost alpha of 1400mmmake them useful for something"
"there is nothing wrong with arty dps. a 6 x 1400mm tempest with 2 gyros does comparable dps with a 7 x 425mm megathron with 2 magstabs.the capless advangtage of the arties is balanced against the rails better tracking.the single biggest problem an arty user faces is lag. as has previously been pointed out once your guns are empty, they're empty and that's it. the above tempest can fire 12 volleys of tremor l for 3287 damage per volley. that's 39444 damage per reload. the megat gets 40 volleys at 1747 damage per volley, which equals 69880.in a laggy fleet situation this means that a tempest can only be relied on to do 56% of the damage a megathron is capable of putting out. also the tempest will be out of ammo in 124 seconds, whereas a mega can continue to shoot for 224 seconds. meaning a mega will be useful for a lot longer to the fleet.i appreciate that this isn't the place for comparing ships effectiveness, but there is something wrong with the arty mechanic when lag sets in. currently ccp can't fix the lag, but they could ease the pain for the minmatar bs pilots."
"just throwing it in here, but what about making it so that when overloading the artillery pieces you get a damage boost instead of the rof or whatever is on now, and only when fitted to minnie ships  or make it a bonus of the minmatar artillery ships, though that could upset bonus balance of ships .this way you have burst damage but repeated use of it would break the guns and you would need to repair them. i am not a wiz at these mechanics but just throwing it in here.regards, aedit: oh, and a tiny little bit more range bonus would be nice on the ships that are supposed to use artillery."
"i'm in favor if:giant space whales leave some sort of residue or gas that can be harvested, thereby making them more valuable alive than dead. anyone hear of a whale crapping fermionic compounds? it could be done. give them their own area of 0.0  like the drone regions "
"coo"
"being khanid myself this is something i would love to see, the eve pf is great stuff to read, and these third bloodline would really fill out the storyedit: forgot to hit support"
"^^ this"
"my support."
"completely necessary, and more importantly, assuming its under development, can we have any idea of an eta?"
"i would venture to say that the lack of external client is the only thing keeping eve-voice from being the #1 choice. do this ccp and you will have won us over. i use eve-voice regularly. my corp is pretty small and the logistics of who will own the server, what are the passwords and addresses, etc. make eve-voice a great choice. i have had a few troubles with getting it to connect correctly, but to keep this in perspective, i have had 10x more trouble connecting with ts or vent."
"most of the resources available in eve are limited and follows a pattern of risk/reward to a certain degree. the exception is missions that provides a magical endless supply of risk free isk and minerals. this is in my opinion one of the major problems with eve and is behind the issue of getting people to spread out and use more of the systems in eve.if you look at for instance ratting, there is a clear progression of increasing rewards when you go from 1.0 to -1.0. to get the best rewards you need to go to 0.0 and work together in a group alliance  to protect your resources. in addition your potential isk/hour will drop the second more people attempt to use the same resources system . similar patterns can be seen for mining and exploration etc. mining has its share of problems but i feel this is closely connected to the issue of missions. missions give at least double the reward of mining in high sec, so the only positive side of mining is that you can do it largely afk macro  and more easily operate multiple accounts. i'd even argue that high sec mining is more risky than missioning and you are \"fighting\" over limited resources when mining.missions however does not suffer any drawbacks from limited resources. you can sit in the same system all day long chaining missions over and over and over with no limit to the isk flow. it provides pure isk bounties/rewards ,minerals loot , salvage, standings and lp in one easy package in a completely risk free environment where you dont compete against anyone for your resources. and the isk/hour is competitive with what you can earn in a large portion of 0.0. in addition high sec missions place you in an area where you got easy access to the best markets in the game.missions break the otherwise competitive nature of eve, it breaks the concept of risk/reward and it eliminates the need for any sort of teamwork to maximise your isk earning potential. and due to the carefree nature of doing missions in high sec  you dont have to worry about beeing killed  you dont really get any benefit from the vastly increased risk of doing low sec missions even though the actual reward is slightly bigger.personally i'd like to see a radical change in missions and completely eliminate them in their current form. but thats probably very unlikely to happen. however something needs to be done with especially high sec missions to put it in line with other means of making isk.so here is some suggestions of what can possibly be done to make missions fit with the rest of eve.- eliminate missions in their current form and instead give rewards lp/isk/standings  for handing in tags that you get from rats through ratting/exploration. increase droprate of tags.- make cosmic anomalies/exploration complexes in high sec or anywhere  more common. in connection with a limitation on high sec missions - limit the number of missions you can get pr day. for instance 1 mission pr agent in high sec, 5 missions pr day in low sec and 10 in 0.0. - nerf mission bounties from high sec missions perhaps half of what it is today . remove some  all?  loot.- give each agent a limited total nr of missions he can give out pr day or pr hour.i'm sure there are many other possibilities to fix missions, but something needs to be done with the current mission system. /me puts on flame ******ant suit."
"very interesting. i'm very much looking forward to see what people think. if we can come to some agreements, i might bring it up."
"just giving myself a thumbs up since i for some reason cant do that in my first post."
"those are all awful ideas! missions are not as rewarding, and unrisky as you make them seem. you'd have to spec in missioning to make them work well.i make my isk from missioning, and i only manage about 5-6 missions a day, if even that. i'd be much better off ratting in 0.0, but the belts are crowded, so i'm losing about 50m a day, as that much missioning \"may\" generate me 15m a day.idea 1: ratting provides much more income in 0.0, than missioning. its only risk is getting jumped, but that's how it is for missioning. plus, mission ships are a hell of a lot pricier, than any standard ratting vessel. the real hindrance there is that belts are crowded. you go do fw for your tags, and standings from ratting.idea 2: that one i can't argue with too much. not done it myselfidea 3: 1 mission per agent? do you honestly think every mission runner, no matter how dedicated, has 56 agents available in empire, and all of them with ships in respective stations?idea 4: highsec missions are crap when it comes to bounties, and loot. not to mention mission rewards. what, at best 3-4mil reward+bonus for 30 mins of grinding? you have to dedicate time to get the lp for a sellable item in th lp store, and then you have to multiply the time for the acquisition of tags needed. then add the time it takes to sell it.idea 5: seriously, the most impossible of your ideas. have you any idea how many people use the same agent in dodixie? limit the agent's missions to 100 a day and he's depleted in an hour. what're people supposed to do then, idea 3? risk lowsec? join an alliance in nosec? not hard, the latter, but it seems they've been avoiding that option for a reason.to really do missions as carefree, and benefitially as you claim you have to bling up your ship, and equipment. get a rattlesnake, deadspace boosters, crystal set. takes quite a while to fund, and anything that kind is just screaming for a suicide gank. and, if it were just for the drops, suicide ganks are done just to cause grief. not even a dominix is safe any more. it gets ship-scanned for its t2 rigs, and one single ss lar, and boom."
"do tell this to salvage ninja's, mission gankers etc.. what was it?hi-sec is safer, not safe. lol, 1 mission in highsec should be 'in line' with the other means of making isk? hello newbee, here's your 1 mission a day. want more? go play with esmenet in 0.0.you sound a bit like a pirate alt hoping for more targets.in short? no thanks"
"having done something like 500-1000 lvl 4 missions i can safely say that its not hard to make around 20 mill+/hr. i lost one completely t1 fit raven early on when i had like 2.5 mill sp, and it was only because i didnt pay attention to triggers and spawned 4 waves on me at once. since then i havent even come close to losing a ship in a mission, and in my current t2 fitted ship i could probably do fine even if i repeated my early noob mistake of spawning multiple waves. so yes missioning is risk free.i expect lot of flames from people that dont want to see how missions breaks from the concepts that apply to pretty much any other way of making isk in eve atm."
"remove loot for high sec agents and leave bounties tags and salvage"
"i have several corp mates not rat in 0.0 because they make more doing missions in high sec. yes it takes bling and such but good days can get 50m/hour for several of them.a total limit is bad. i could see a decrease in agent quality depending on how many missions he gave out the previous week. i could see a limited number per character per agent or faction a day. bob just doesn't have anything else for you to do today without his books looking suspicious to his superiors for all i know. i could even see caping agents in high sec at l3 q0 and l4 q-20 and moving up to l4 q0 to lowsec and any better having to go to 0.0. there are several threads already about changing rat drops both in missions and from rats in general. i would like to see more done with tags as i can't melt them for minerals. mining suitable trit quantities in 0.0 to complete with refining rat loot is a topic in several other threads though.just a few alternate suggestions."
"yes limiting pr character is probably better than a total limit. but a total limit would encourage people to spread out more instead of having everyone in motsu."
"an idea i've had floating around for a while is that missions should become a more limited resource - but not quite how you describe.current system: ask agent for mission, instanced mission is spawned.new system: agent spawns a new mission at a some frequency which is part of the agent's stats  up to a maximum number of missions waiting which would also be configurable . mission runners can access the list of missions the agent has available and the reward for them and then choose one to take on.the reward and time-bonus on the mission is set to a low level, then gradually increases with the rate of increase being based on the agent's quality.as a mission runner you can see the full selection of missions available from the agent and choose one to take.now you have a limited pool of missions available at each agent and people have what is effectively a bidding war between each other to take the mission at its best reward point but before someone else takes it.quality would no longer directly effect mission reward, instead rewards would rise faster on higher quality agents. this means that if you go and find a lower quality but less used agent you can generally find better mission rewards directly rewarding people for spreading out and trying different agents.you now have actual pvp and competition for resources between players, incentive to spread out, agent quality still meaningful but not the be-all and end-all, etc."
"most definately in need of a serious fix. will have the added bonus of eliminating clogged areas of empire space, and bring more people to low sec."
"missions need a fix, they offer way too much reward for not much risk. i support having the csm look into this issue.i'd like to see level 3 and 4 missions only in lowsec - 0.0 they can keep the current rewards structure  when they are moved to lowsec their rewards should increase . i'd also like to see in 0.0 agents faction and deadspace drops  not very often but sometimes, and if this already happens i apologize . lastly to make them more interesting give them the escalating paths like the deadspaces now have, perhaps when you get this you can get aforementioned faction/deadspace/officer loot.edit: forgot to support."
"don't you mean it will have the added benefit of removing people from the game when it takes 2 years of running their one mission a day to buy a battle ship?fewer people in lowsec too, since they won't be able to grind missions in high sec to earn the iskies to get their ships back."
"no, i meant what i said, but your version works just as well for me.they don't go there now, so there's not gonna be fewer of them."
"risk vs. reward in low sec should be addressed first. lowsec is in many ways more risky than 0 sec, and has very little extra incentive when compared with highsec. if you want to introduce people into high risk situations, you should first open the door for higher risk situations.although esmenet, it's cute that you admit you've run thousands of missions to become established in eve and now you want them obliterated in the form that you abused them."
"i still do missions actually so i'm nerfing myself. but either way it doesnt matter what i do or did. if you open your eyes to the game as a whole you can see how missions break the concepts that the rest of eve follow."
"hmm, i don't know about everyone else here but i think missions have already been \"nerfed\" by the virtue of being boring as hell. with mining you can fly over to a field, lock onto a rock or two and fire up the lasers. you can then more or less be afk while your ship does the rest. with low sec ratting and whatnot, you have to keep an eye on local or risk getting blown to kingdom come by a wandering pirate.with missions you occasionally lock targets and fire missiles. that's pretty much it: just sit there and launch, while sometimes boosting your health. you can't quite take your eyes off it, since you'll die, but there simply isn't enough going on to require anything more than passing attention. sure, you can try pulling them off in a lower class ship but that's too inefficient to justify.**i'm assuming that things are marginally more interesting for those who have the misfortune to grind missions on a gunboat/drone carrier but i don't think it interferes with the message.the point i'm trying to make is that crippling the mission system in the way you're describing will extract the last morsels of joy one might get from running missions leaving them nothing more than household chores.i play eve to have fun, not as another part-time job.either remove missions entirely  as if that'll happen  or leave them as they are.p.s.i'd like to point out that my first major concern when i read this thread was that those of us collecting lps would be well and truly screwed since they're hard enough to get as it is. i might be more supportive of your suggestions if you can provide a viable alternative method for acquiring lps. to be blunt, the 500k that i have right now are the only reason i haven't moved down to 0.0 anyway.edit: just as an aside, i agree that missions break eve to a degree. from a lore standpoint, it seems insane that the pirate factions could supply enough ships to fuel the destructive tendencies of thousands and thousands of pilots every day. most players will have committed mass genocide after their first eighteen months."
"removing or radically altering missions isn't going to make people go play in low sec people, it's going to make people quit."
"in my mind what happens after this is implemented:1  many players, who play for the fun of it, leave. simply if they cannot do what they wish to do they aren't going to subscribe. much lower amount of subscribers.2  empty lowsec  worse than right now . if you can only run one mission a day in highsec or 5 in lowsec it will take you forever to replace a bs or bc plus fit it. people aren't going to run off into lowsec to lose the bs they just grinded for 3 months to get running one level 3 a day. 3  market crash. highsec mission runners will be poor, to the point of not being able to afford ships above a bc. they definately will have issues replacing bss. t2 or deadspace modules will not be purchased because of costs and lack of funding.4  pirates will be poorer. you get your iskies from blowing people up and taking their loot. if your targets have no isk, they don't have any loot. if they can't make isk to buy their new toys, they don't play the game.5  alliances will be poorer. yes, they can provide for most of their needs, but they still need iskies for things like npc provided pos fuel. no carebears == no one buying your deadspace stuff == a lot less cash.6  isk sellers profit. seriously, cloaking ratting ravens in 0.0 will be the primary source of isk in the game, sold by external web sites. since players will still need isk but will not have access to near as much, many will just buy what they want. but instead of straight isk you will see things like \"full snake set, only $15.95\".eve requires isk to flow in order to function. you are directly threatening that isk, meaning you directly threaten eve. everything you listed will hurt the game greatly. you really think that you would be able to gank faction-fitted mission ships or fat haulers if there were not missions bolstering the economy?"
"some of us are trying to make sure that you still have targets to shoot at"
"ratting is boring as hell and is perfectly safe if you know what you are doing. what is teh risk of a wcs cloaking sensorbooster ratting raven that logs off the second someone enters local?no risk at all. thats why 0.0 is full of cloaking wcs ratting ravens. high sec missions are risky from gankers. anyone can gank any mission runner mid mission with a few torp ravens, 4-5 max if mission runner is at a gate. on the other hand, 0.0 ratters have almost no risk at all.if anything, risk needs to be added to 0.0 ratting and rewards increased for missions in lowsec. i am a fan of lvl4/5 and rewards of low sec just do not cover the shiploss when you find 4 ms hotdropping you for ****s and giggles.missions need more scripting and more friendly npc's to remove the \"rambo effect\". some fw missions already have multi-race npc's fighting each other and you get a real feel of a fleet battle when you join in half way through."
"getting a bit annoying that every time a topic is up for discussion that hurts carebears some of them show up and make the argument that \"if you do this, everyone will quit and the game will die\", as if they are really speaking for everyone in empire. i don't think everyone will quit. i think a few will emo-quit, make a tearfilled post on gd about how \"ccp ruined the game\" and how \"me and my elevenhundred alts are quitting\". other than that, i think most people would adapt and find other ways to make isk, such as venturing out into more... ahem... unsafe regions of space.tl;dr: \"everyone will quit\" is a bad argument."
"i think it was motoworld where they said everyone will quit when they planned a change. overnight pretty much everone quit. something like it happened with swg when they released the nge expansion. the problem in both cases is that they were not looking at the root cause.the real number 1 problem that everyone hates is 0.0 ratting being too easy. its next to impossible to kill cloaking ratters. this should be the focus first - to make 0.0 ratting more dangerous.also, low sec missions need reward boost. 0.0 missions need reward boost. just now, few people do them because its not worth it if a enemy is going to hot drop you with 5 motherships when you jump though a gate."
"i didn't say everyone. i would bet if you checked ccp's expenses for server upgrades, etc it wouldn't take a lot to put them in the red. red is bad. of course if they lost enough then they wouldn't need to do server upgrades. but then if they lost enough so it wasn't making a decent profit they could just close eve down and concentrate on the ww mmo being built and reuse the existing hardware.besides, explain to me where i went wrong in my assumptions as to what would happen. where do you see the market, population base, status of invention, etc if this was how eve worked. how would it effect your targets, how would it effect you?"
"this one is easy. these is way too much supply in the market as demonstrated.....by ummm looking at the market for more than one second. so if there are less mission runners, then that means there will be less minerals, which means prices will go up whih means more miners and then prices will go back down again. it is very simple. if you really think the market will be extraordinarily high because mission running is over then you just don't know anything about economics or eve at all.i mean, you would be suprised if you knew how many pvp players had industrial alts and could easily swoop down and start up production/mining/invention if it suddenly became worthwhile. lower subscription numbers do not harm eve or ccp at all, they can sell servers or advertise or add in new content, eve chugged along quite nicely with less than 10k average ppl online so i am not worried that eve will omg die because a few mission runners decide to quit.i agree with the op, there needs to be competition of some sort for high sec missions. either that or massive nerfs to isk/hr or hard limits to the max # of missions you can run in high sec. it is ridiculous that mission should give you equal or more isk/hr than 0.0 with none of the risks. cloaking ninja raven 0.0 ratters is also a problem but a different topic."
"it's just annoying that whenever carebears feel something would hurt their profits, they immediately take the subject hostage by threatening to quit. it's sort of the trade mark for carebears, so i'm not surprised by it, but it's still annoying. also, i don't think as many would quit as you seem to think, nor do i feel that the game would be worse off if anyone did quit for this reason.i think it would balance things out a bit more. high sec would still be pretty crowded, but for completely different reasons. that's where people would go to do commerce with the goods they drag in from unsafe areas of space. it would not be the source of those goods at all. it would effect me in the way that my high sec mission running alt would need to find something else to do. that would probably mean more exploration and such. however, i think a combination of a complete nerf of high sec high end missions and a boost to low sec, it would be awesome."
"now i would like to tell you something, it is hard to imagine but still true.not everyone is minmaxing eve, being a caldari achura and doing l3s in passive tanked drake and l4s in raven and cnr.now, some people, who actually have to shoot at targets, for example, have much harder time with missions than folks in cnrs, and dont earn nowhere near as much.if you hate missioning that much you should argue for a large boost to pvp capabilities of caldari ships and a huge nerf to their pve strength."
"i'm sorry, but what is your argument here? if someone sucks at eve he's going to have a hard time doing missions? well, mate, let me tell you something: that falls into the yp department. it's not a balance issue."
"i'm unclear on how this would work in practice.what we don't want is for an fw corp to declare war on an neutral corp or alliance and in doing so pass the war on to the whole of the faction."
"i support the introduction of a mid-line hauler, call it a 'scow', but give it a substantial tank.make it limited to cargo access at pos, stations, and industrial mining ships that are anchored. make it capable of launching & recovering pos modules as well.give it some function, though - make it a sub-capital logistic ship with range & fitting bonuses to logistic modules, but no 'quantity' bonus as current logistic cruisers enjoy. this will enable it to support its fleet during an ambush. give it, say, 4 utility high slots and bs scan res  and bs pg/grid . since it can't load in space putting tractors/salvagers on it would be a complete waste  though folks will try . give it perhaps 1 or 2 mid slots, and 1 or 2 low  expanders won't increase it's cargo substantially beyond 120k m/3 ."
"you should have just called me an idiot, would have been far less words. and definitely don't want more lp available to level 4 mission runners. still with the remove meta 0, leave meta 1-4, and don't compensate with anything."
"+1there still should be loot but it should be meaningful and a far lower volume. like if i pop a serp outpost either give me something decent or nothing, not a few hundred hybrid rounds and web i.the whole mission drop system needs a complete overhaul, in"
"i must agree with plankton.t1 meta- 0 might as well be a raw mineral drop and as such it's stepping all over the mining profession. as for the named stuff though, some things ought to be rare, valuable and random imo.as to meta- manufacturing, if it could be introduced in such a way as to not crash the existing named- item market i'm into it... but just as i don't want missioning stepping all over mining, i don't want an outright reversal of that situation either. t1 and minerals should be the province of industry/ miners, named gear should be the province of missioners/ ratters i think. i hate seeing useless parts.*edit* unlike plankton, i'm ok with replacing the t1 loot drops with something else; my idea was trade goods, but whatever works. i'm of the opinion generally that missioning could use a small nerf, but that's not what this seems to be about."
"apart from anything else, providing t1 basic stuff should be something that players do, not npcs. the huge flood of t1 stuff from npc drops means that the profession of t1 module manufacturing is stillborn. aspiring manufacturers are faced with subsidised competition and cannot possibly compete, since t1 stuff is sold for below mineral cost."
"no-one's talking about getting rid of your arbalest loot. just the t1 basic stuff."
"become miners? ok, i'm kidding. but seriously... a couple of million sp? that's about 15% if what it takes to be a good miner and 10% of what it takes to become a truly specialised one. not a line of argument i would advise you to pursue.in any case, you can adapt quite easily, i would think. what's it to you whether you're buying mission loot to reprocess and resell to manufacturers, or miners minerals to resell to manufacturers and manufacturers modules and mission named items to resell to players?the fluctuations in the mineral market that would occur if this change is enacted should provide plenty of opportunity for the alert trader."
"whilst i personally agree that hi-sec l4s are too lucrative  i use them myself, so i should know , this thread isn't the place for that argument.if you like, we're discussing how mission rewards should be received, not how much the reward should be in total.increasing lp at the expense of minerals has been suggested because simply handing out more isk would be highly inflationary. lps are at least an isk-sink."
"get rid of t1 loot from rats!"
"you're assuming that the market for lp items is completely demand limited: that people will spend exactly the same on lp items regardless of price. i would suggest that if lp items were cheaper, people would use more of them. for instance if the price of faction ammo falls enough that it becomes economic to do missions with it."
"that's a popular exaggeration. i build and sell t1 modules and even ships and my profit margin averages >30% of sales. that's at fairly low volumes  ~35m/ month  and it's my understanding that at high volume the margins are lower, but that's kind of how that goes... just ask sam walton.reread the op. the phrase \"that means t1 meta will have to come from elsewhere\" suggests to me that they are in fact talking about arbalest loot  and modal, and fs9 regolith blah blah etc , which they seem to plan to move to the manufacturing sector.i don't think i'm in favor of that, i like the current system there."
"well, as i later noted, i can see the benefit from having named loot, still drop. please remember that this is a discussion topic, the op is not gospel truth. the post was made to gather feedback on this topic."
"well, rats do have to drop something. as it is now it's wrong, rats dropping better things then industriallist can build  t1 stuff . my idea:let the rats drop upgrade modules which players can use to upgrade their t1 modules into named."
"you're not thinking enough about the drawbacks of your idea.if you replace t1 loot by more lp, first it will only benefit the mission-runners, not the ratters  and guess which kind of activity loot more , second it will further devalue lps, which don't need that. if you replace it by bigger bounties, the macro-ratters in 0.0, who never loot and delog when anyone enter the system, will absolutely love this. and it might do bad things to the economy.if you make meta modules more common, by direct looting or indirectly by producing them, you'll basically kill the demand for t1, since there will be lots of supply of meta mods at cheap price.if you remove them completely without replacing them by anything, it's a signifiant nerf to the income of missions-runners, and a huge nerf to the income of ratters. think -20% or so. i doubt you'd want anything that make 0.0 less attractive compared to high-sec.there's also the fact that most named items  all the guns, for one thing, and guns are the main source of minerals from loot , only reprocess for half the worth of t1 mods.eventually removing t1 from the loot tables might be a good thing on the long run, but the way to do it will have to be considered very, very carefully..."
"yes, but only t1  i.e. no named .edit: i don't see what the problem is regarding mission runners. just change the loot tables to increase the number of named drops to compensate  roughly  for the value of named items, or increase the chance of some of the more expensive items. still less hauling overall, and it means most of it will be sold."
"jesus, what are you people thinking ?!hell no!"
"when i joined this game mining was a very lucerative buisness but as of late with the mineral market crashing because you dont even need to mine to get minerals now everything is getting out of hand a friend has actually saved enough mineral from loot from all the mission he does to actually build a carrier.... fully support a revamp to the mining industry"
"i couldn't agree more."
"so \"if the price of faction ammo falls enough\" they will become a hot selling item. little problem: the \"production price\" of the faction ammunition has 2 components1  5.000 units of standard ammunition, price determined by the market, pretty invariable unless the mineral prices change.2  x lp, don't recall how many, but a fixed price dictated by ccp.so to make the production price \"fall enough\" you should reduce the value of the lp. end result the lp have a lower value. i really fail to see the logic in your post. i am not interested in selling faction ammo as hot potato if the gain is 10 isk/lp, substituting several millions in loot in every level 4 mission with several millions in lp at the current lp value  or at ccp supposed lp exchange rate  will simply make them overabundant and lower the value of lp."
"3 i disagree! there researcher who likes to make money!anyhowremove all loot! even named unless its level 5 and 0.0 dont boost the mission runners! they do not need boosting in salvage or lp sorts! thats it really"
"these are bpc's for meta items."
"i'm not keen on this idea, as it would simply lead to a devaluing of lp's  or salvage . i would increase the bounties, but that just increases the isk per hour and makes salvaging pointless. similar problems with \"just make them drop more salvage\" it will just devalue the existing level.my suggestion, as a short term solution, and certianly one that would aid the mining profession whilst not hindering the mission runners as much, is to change the reprocessing plants  rp .the idea is simply that what minerals a rp can produce are linked to either its security rating, or just to null, low-sec, high-sec divisions. it can be explained away as hazardous radiation if necessary, but more importantly it would mean that mission runners are unable to provide critical resources for items in highsec, thus restoring some of the balance.a balanced solution must not be \"just drop more of z\" or \"gain more of y\" as supply and demand will just make y & z more worthless, which sadly is the current problem for minerals  and tech 1 items to a degree .if tech 1 has to be eliminated from the loot, then bpc's of meta items become a must. its fairly easy to implement as all the loot tables simply change from \"250 mm railgun i\" to \"250 mm railgun i bpc x runs\"."
"mm thing is less loot for mission runners for them to take means they can go though missions faster with out wasting time collecting loot! i mean the rewards in mission is huge far i can see! lp stores and rewards and mission rewards and most of all salvage. they don't need loot! also pc ships should drop loot because that be a reward for the another pc for killing him and take any nice mods he has dropped like a titain . other wise it be like wow and makes pv pointless other than just k/d. also to be honest! i honestly think with the mining bots! i think there should be a cap on what ship/equipment you can use if your in a npc corp! meaning like a trail account! cant use hauler! so if there in a pc corp and there showing signs as a bunch of bots! the macro hunter can declare war on them and wast them. joining a corp not hard and not reason not to join! if people want a war dec free corp then they need to have limits in how the function in eve. until i see a real big reason why not i strongly stand by this!"
"sorry meta items as in named? i not sure what ya mean"
"thumbs up!blazing fire ceo interstellar operations incorporated corp web site services [service] killboard hosting [service] forum hosting [service] web site hosting [service] alliance creation"
"named items are meta 1-4, which is almost certainly what he means."
"i agree."
"/+1"
"i assume he means this, from his op. perhaps a combination of the two? a bpc to build those optional products.so in fact you would first build an 'meta x' improvement item. that in it's turn would be added to an production run of for instance a standard 'missile launcher' bpo to produce for instance an 'arbalest missile launcher'. but alternatively you could make a named armor repper of special ammo with it. because it would result in the 'meta x' version of that item. it would leave it up to the manufacturer what to improve, and thus a way to respond to prices dropping or rising for particular items.but, getting rid of unnamed as drops? all for it."
"i wholeheartedly support this as a miner. increase salvage to make rigs cheaper  they are jury rigs not uber pimp mods eliminate t1 loot."
"supported whole heartedly.it is right now the only thing that will fix the oddly skewed market."
"agreed, the loot when refined ruins the entire purpose of mining, while giving an insane boost to the already insane isk of bounties, mission rewards, salvage and bonuses combined, not to mention the lp.maybe the mission rats could drop something else, something for a new profession or w/e, something that would be useful for mission runners  temporary armor patches or w/e  but not worth alot on the market."
"everything sold in-game should be subject to the effects of the free market to the furthest degree possible. i know that the eve market isn't truly a free market, but it's close and anything that increases that aspect of the game world is only a good thing."
"i glazed over some of the posts here as it has become a \"whyz u nurfin me meshonz?\" just get over it, missions should have been nerfed long ago  i run missions too: evidence that missions need nerfing is that a 2.5 year old player still finds missions to be profitable enough to do .yes, please remove all t1 loot from missions and ratting. now setup t1 named bpcs to drop as you suggested lavista. this allows you to keep your precious isk from named loot. how? because it will be the only way to obtain these bpc and will therefore be more valuable. make the named bpc have about the same build requirements as t1 and poof, you don't need uber-skills in industry to make them, and you could also just sell the bpc for isk too, if you cannot be bothered to make them yourself."
"bingo. ccp should be constantly trying to refine any aspect of the game that removes the market from npc's and puts it more into the hands of players. taking npc influence out of the market as much as possible would lead to a much more realistic free market situation in eve."
"yes, but have you ever asked the question \"is this a good thing?\" a free market should be exactly that, free. it should have no outside influences with the exception of protection against force and fraud."
"i do not have issues with removal of t1 if you make the meta better than t2 in some way more than just fittings atm. maybe a 10% bonus in damage mod for meta 4 or something, but it's gotta be worth constructing for more than just the new players, and training time cannot be an argument as theres too large a base of players with t2 already."
"free markets crash. hard. without regulations and safeties, you run the risk of creating a market atmosphere that incredibly unfavorable to the player."
"as a player who does not have billions, heck i don't even have millions   200 million is the most i have ever had  , i support a change in how modules like this are found. on one hand when i was an unexperienced user, i sold and reprocessed these drops that allowed me to purchase what i needed. so i think those players still need these items to make additional money and or get items they need to make money.i think at the point where missions provide million isk per kill as a bounty, that these enemies need to stop giving out the lower quality loot. they need to drop something that will allow somebody with an investment, to produce something worth value. this item would also have a value, lets basically called it an \"upgrade item\". this item would be influenced by the market, perhaps this item could also have a way to be produced. lets limit the number of these items to a small amount, i am thinking around 20 different items.i have made a few million isk playing the market, i typical find an item i can produce or purchase for less and make a profit. the problem with this change is i would be unable to do this any more. i would have to invest money into blueprints and have to attempt to price my goods near or below everyone else. granted everyone else would be in a similar boat, everyone wants to make a profit, and i have an advantage i will take anything i can get to increase my wealth.the items i purchase are items i have found drop often in mission drops, i take advantage of people who do not study the market system and just quickly sell items. i would just have to adapt and as long as my skills to reprocess an item i sold for cheap to gain a profit from the minerals is not effected then i am happy.i guess the point of this post besides showing my support towards this idea. is to say that as long as a change does not effect the usefulness of a given skill. as long as a character can train a new skill and/or an old skill and adapt to the change it will work out.will the system be different, sure. will people complain, sure it will happen no matter what.i think npc cooperations should only provide the information to produce items. they should only provide the welfare items to new players for a price, so they can actually advanced in the game. items still need to be dropped, if they are special, but anything else dropped should only be the knowledge to produce that said item.people who cannot earn the items to their skill level and/or or afford to purchase these good items will still not have them. the amount of people will just increase and this will provide confidence to additional players and they will start to experiment with new elements of the game. i am afraid to try new elements of the game, because i don't have faction items, and at this time do not have the ability to get even get them."
"i support this idea.key being most if not all ore should come from the mining profession.imho.take careminsebsis"
"actually, no they don't. it's manipulated markets that crash hard. name me one example of a truly free market that has crashed hard  no, the usa doesn't have, and has never had, a truly free market .i've studied free markets for a decade and i assure you that a free market is far better for all involved  except the power hungry . sure, they're susceptible to ups and downs and even crashes, but all of these will be far less disturbing than those that happen in manipulated markets."
"i'm not going to get too close to rl politics here, and i'm not going to ask the same question as j kunjeh because he asks the wrong question of course - there's never been a truly free market, so of course there's never been a crash of one . but i do still feel the need to criticize what you're saying. even if we take the anti-capitalist line on real-world politics, and say that free markets impoverish the masses, most of those criticisms don't apply to a game world. you can't starve to death in eve. you can't become unemployed - you might lose your current job say, if you lose your only hulk , but you have an infinite supply of noob ships, and corresponding access to an infinite supply of ships for basic mining and ratting. better ships have very low entry requirements, and it's routine for a new player with no assets at all to be in a cruiser inside a week of play. this assumes safe space, of course, either protected by concord or a friendly alliance, but so long as we don't remove high-sec and npc corps, that should still be the case. furthermore, since the elimination of the t2 bpo lottery, monopolies and cartels need not worry us. the only things that there are not an effectively unlimited supply of are premium goods - named/faction/deadspace/officer goods, invention decoders, rare skills most players don't need, stuff like that. there is an infinite supply of missions, an infinite supply of t1 bpos and basic skills, and an effectively infinite supply of asteroids several hundred times larger than the demand certainly qualifies . nothing can be held by one or a few players. even titans are showing up on the market these days, and in some quantity at that. so precisely what failures will arise from a free market in eve? wealth concentration? overblown in real life, but an absolute delusion in a world where creating wealth is a trivial affair. i care about how rich i am, not whether tyrrax thorrk can find another officer-fit ultra-rare ship to go pvping in, and i know i'll never go broke unless i'm a complete fool. the economy is too decentralized to experience a demand-shock recession, and too casual to care about the situations that would otherwise create one in any case when i can't starve or go broke, why do i need to hoard my wealth? , and supply-shock recessions are impossible in a world with an infinite resource base and low barriers to entry. neither inflation nor deflation is an issue, and even if they were fluctuating prices are hardly seen as shocking. it's theoretically possible for ccp to wreck up the place, but that's a failure of the \"government\", not the market. so precisely what market failure are you concerned about here?"
"great idea, gets my support - but not extra lps in exchange for reasons stated by others.why not replace the tech 1 loot tables with the meta product or additional salvage you mention that would then be needed to produce meta level modules? would still give something dropping of value, even if it isn't of immediate value. it would also maintaina a link of sorts between meta modules and ratting/missioning.fin"
"great post herschel. you're right, there's never been a truly free market in the modern age, but the markets most close to a free market are always the most resilient.your post also got me thinking about what elements ccp could add that would increase add the necessity to hoard money. didn't they say with ambulation we would be able to feed our avatars? hmm..interesting possibilities."
"how long did it take them to make many of the changes in the system?how many changes to the balance were made after the developers looked into things, quite often after people saw a tool and abused it because it was possible.right now they took a look at suicide attacks, and are tweaking the rules on them.the way you point out it's always been that way is almost sounds like you want them to roll back to the 1.0 code... but things change, the game evolves. new issues crop up, and new adjustments are made.long standing systems and items are changed as well. after all i doubt you want them to put the belts back in jita and the like, pull the extra turrets off ships, and push everything back to what it was like when the servers were first put online... after all that was how things were for a time."
"so you and avon and a few minor griefers qualify as people from different playstyles? and while i agree that insurance is not the cause but a symptom of the problem, the fix is still a pretty good one, unless you are one of those guys only getting their kicks from the suffering of other players. heck even some pirates and suicider sympathizers have voiced their support for it...seriously, since you do not accept any viewpoint but your own as rational, you fail at rationality yourself. removing insurance for concordokkens is a good compromise between the free for all for suiciders we currently have and that you so vehemently defend, and the pvp flag bs that the hardcore carebears want. i don't see what could be more rational."
"i have proven without a doubt that their gankers  opinions are irrational and biased at this point have i not?they gankers  won't even say that taking away the insurance payment would increase the cost because they gankers  are so dug in on being right no matter the cost that reasonable thought has long since been left in the dust.if they gankers  won't work with us carebears who apparently are not carebears because we go to low sec once every 3 months  to find a reasonable fix to all involved party's then nerf the freaking christ out of it ccp and let them gankers  cry about it in hindsight.edited to add the reference windjammer is talking about. i like the new version better too jammer."
"uhh.....everyones opinions or did you have a particular group or individual in mind? also, this \"they\" you speak of.......could you specify which group you're targeting? i, myself, have a good idea of whom you're discussing, but it would be nice for other readers if you could clear this up.regards,windjammer"
"show me free for all suiciding, show it. dont just say its there while not being able to produce a player who has been ganked repeatitively over the past month. most complaints are from someone being ganked once or twice. often they are afk, or not attentive to the enviroment they are in. if suicide ganking was so rampent i would see it when i fly through empire, my noobship would be the target of battleships because i might have something valueable in my cargo right?then you have people complaining they got ganked before they could load grid. that has nothing to do with the suicide ganking mechanic and everything to do with lag and the games netcode, and processing orders. tough luck, how about you complain about the lag instead in these situations. suicide ganking has already gotten hit with the nerf bat more than three times.  introduction of wtz, general hit point buff to all ships, several buffs to concord including jamming drones in addition to ships .then you have people who cant identify a potential suicide ganker in system, because they are hiding in an npc corperation. how is changing insurance going to fix that? it wont. the only think the insurance change would do is make the first situational preference in a sandbox game. i hate patchjobs that dont address the cause but try to find some sort of punishment that doesnt even go halfway to fixing the problem. instead the solution will end up creating more problems, but hey we have to be entirely focused on this one solution and blind to any other possible solution that works at the source of the problem and expands the sandbox nature of the game."
"personally, i think that voiding concord insurance for anyone who has destroyed a target in hi-sec is a sensible moderation of the issue in hand. it won't remove suicide ganking completely, but it will tone it down to acceptable levels  i.e. generally, only against targets that deserve it, such as ships that have been scanned and found to be carrying an overly valuable cargo, making the proposition profitable , rather than the speculative ganking we are seeing at present  ganking targets just because they look like they might be carrying something of value .however, i think anything beyond that, including the more severe sec hits that are already on the table, are misguided, and will result in negative effects on the game.for example, it would be easy to be extremely heavy-handed  and some csm members are all for this , and punish any ganker so severely that his faction standings and sec-hit are impacted with months' worth of repair work.all this will do is prompt more ingenuity from those who wish to persist in their attacks. for example, it is perfectly feasible to train up a gank caracal on a trial account. in sufficient numbers  and which group in the game do you know who excels at such organisation? , they would be able to take down almost any target they wished in high-sec.what then? monitor ip addresses? proxies would circumvent that. remove trial accounts from the game? yes, ccp would love to do away with one of their main marketing tools, i'm sure.people play this game to pvp, primarily of the non-consensual variety, to engage closely with fellow players and blow their stuff up. there seems to be a trend for this becoming harder and harder to achieve; issues such as the lofty scam and now suicide ganking are being firmly addressed, but the overall picture that has made these activities so desirable  such as the immunity offered by npc corps, and dysfunctional war-deccing and bounty systems  are ignored. suppress this element too hard, and a great deal of the mystique of this profoundly unique and engaging game will be lost, and this is something that can only be detrimental for all players."
"all the people who disagree with you are irrational? that would seem to be a lot of people who aren't being rational. the thread containing the original proposal had 155 thumbs up approvals. the csm voted unanimously to escalate the issue to the ccp/csm meeting and ccp had already formed a task force to address the issue. really? all those people aren't being rational? this would seem to be a good example of circular logic, i.e. you're right because you say you're right.the only person i saw use the term \"knee-jerk reaction\" was avon and he sees the problem, but has a different solution to it. i like his solution, but disagree with him because i feel his solution would virtually eliminate high sec suicide ganking and put a serious kink in low sec suicide ganking. that sound like i'm fanatically biased to my style of game play?the removal of insurance from suicide gankers is not a bad fix. it's an imcomplete fix. that's why it's only part of a package of fixes rather than trying to stand on its own as a complete fix. as a part of the package of planned changes, it's an important element.the mechanics of the game may be the same as before, but their usage has changed. i hate to keep hammering on goonswarm.........no really, i do.....honest......but they offer a prime example of the problem with their \"jihad\"swarm. blind suicide ganking is another example. in the end.....if you haven't understood the problem by now, you've been wasting everyones time with your posts. you haven't grasped the discussion at all.when you say, \"we have all come to the same conclusion\", i have to wonder. who is this \"all\" you speak of? considering what you did in manipulating quotes from the economic report, i'm suspicious. when you say you're the only rational one and everyone else is irrational....because you say so, i start wondering whether or not you need professional assistance.windjammer"
"i think avon's solution is good too. funny how that works out, innit?"
"hahaha! yes, the ol' \"well officer, if she really understood the male mind i would not have had to **** her.\""
"this thread is now about how great i am, and i nominate myself to lead ccp's suicide ganking task force."
"itt: carebears comparing themselves to **** victims..."
"your logic, not mine. in fact you could create analogies to almost any crime using your logic: \"he was driving a nice car, so i stole it\" \"his live has everything i want, so i murdered him\"just because you can, doesn't mean that the punishments are not handed out. \"you stole that guys car! well, if you hunt down a few guys for us, who, by the way did the same crime, then we shall let you steal more!\" something is wrong with eve's punishment system: ccp and most of the playerbase would like this fixed. only the criminals would vote for lesser laws on crimes ofc."
"your proposal pidgeon-holds it into this style of play, whereas the op proposal gives you flexibility, but it wouldn't better than the curse. you'd also continue to pidgeon-hold it as the sole force recon that can do nothing once pinned down by an interceptor, because it's outside of weapon range - no other force recon suffers from the same problems. as pitiful as the arazu and lechesne are, even they could still force an interceptor to orbit within web range if the interceptor pushed to continue to warp disrupt them.options based upon fit, not your scenario of, \"here's a ship and this is the sole way to fit it, just don't uncloak and you'll do just fine!\""
"lame argument. insanely lame. if this thread is 'terrible' it's only because of comments like this. the vagabond is obviously not designed for artillery yes it's an insanely fast, close range ship.... however, correct me if i am wrong here, you do have another hac, the muninn, which just so happens to be designed for artillery.i never said give the cerberus tank bonuses, or a drone bay, or more capacitor, or more speed..  if i asked for any of these things only then i would indeed be asking to make the cerberus a sacrilege  considering heavy assault launchers go almost 50km on a cerberus it's basically a mid range ship with haml fit.. i'm just thinking haml should be a bit easier to fit. i never said a cerberus should be a sacrilege. i just think it should be a tad easier to fit, that's all.i can fly other races ships, i can fly every hac except amarr. i just think it is lame that the sacrilege is so easy to fit and such a good ship with 'caldari' weapons, yet the cerberus in comparison comes off as being rather weak  it does have fitting issues .now if the cerberus is truly a long range hac, fine, let's give it double missile velocity  thats 12km/sec heavy missiles  and let's get that kinetic bonus changed to all missile damage, and lets toss it some more grid, cause i really feel it's hard to fit the cerberus right now compared to most other hacs.perhaps i should have chosen a different subject line to this thread. people seem to be just running with the whole lol jim wants to make cerberus pwn in ur face like a sacrilege lol and that's not the case.again, my proposal is simply:1. easier fittings for cerberus.  mwd/2x lse should be easier, like other hacs.. 2. double missile velocity is more effective than 1 velocity bonus 1 flight time bonus.  better at long range ok!? 3. damage bonus applied to all missiles not just kinetic or at least just heavies.  sac gets this why not cerb? those are my 3 ideas to improve the cerberus and make it a bit more viable. if you disagree with them that is fine, are they seriously terrible ideas or really step on the sacrileges amazingly huge manly toes? i do support a sacrilege nerf though, it's got too much grid for a missile boat, too much cap too.. but i won't rag on the sac too much in this thread @lucia, don't bring faction ships into this, they have nothing to do with balance. yes i know navy caracals are not overly expensive but i think they are toy ships and should not really be factored into balance discussion.. i mean you really wanna argue nightmare vs other bships or stuff like that? expensive toys for the most part, could argue gist shield boosters are overpowered too but again, expensive toys != pvp.."
"again, jim, you need to identify specific numbers and estimate the balance effects of those changes, or this thread is worthless, and has no place in this forum. how much pg do you think that the cerb need? model some fits and quantify the effects of switching to a double velocity bonus, or switching the kinetic damage bonus to all-damage-type. this thread will go nowhere until you do this."
"agreed :-  these are fairly reasonable requests."
"how much grid? probably 75-90mw. though this will still render the 6th high slot all but unusable. the additional grid would make it easier to fit dual extender + mwd for heavy missile launchers, but a rcu would be needed for haml, fair?double velocity is simple it comes up to 12km/s vs ~8km/s which is the current top speed a non-rigged cerberus. i'm not really sure how to put that into numbers but i think we can simply say missiles will hit stuff from far away faster thus making the cerberus more viable at long range, correct? it will take a cerberus firing a heavy missile from 100km about 12 seconds to hit at the current speed of heavy missiles, with a double velocity bonus it would take about 8 seconds. there you go.now as for the missile damage bonuses, the cerberus tops out at 350 dps for a heavy launcher 2 bcu ii + caldari navy scourge setup, with any other cn navy missile you are doing 280 dps. the boost would mean 350 dps with any heavy missile.. sac hits about 480 dps with 2 bcu ii and its light drones with any heavy assault missile, and considering the superior speed, capacitor, and tank of the sac, this seems fair to me.so there you have it.sac = 485 dps [5 haml ii + 2 bcu ii + 3 hobgoblin ii] - 20km range.cerberus = 350 dps [5 hvy launcher ii + 2 bcu ii] with kinetic, 280 dps non kinetic - 189km range sac outside of range, is completely superior to the cerberus, so, if they both could pick any missile damage type would that be fair to you? it would be fair to me, considering the sacrileges many strengths.cerberus has a huge range advantage yes, but this isn't a head on 1v1 comparison. i'm not going to sit here and argue who would win 1v1, obviously a sacrilege would since it could avoid most of the cerberus damage, never have to turn its mwd off, keep 16-18km away from the cerberus and watch it die a horrible death. precision heavy missiles, being broken, would make it all the easier of course. but could a cerberus stay back and sling missiles at greater ranges and with far greater effectiveness by being able to choose its damage type like the sacrilege can? yes. could it benefit from being able to fit a dual extender setup? yes.that being said, sacrilege is fairly fast, and has a lot of buffer hp, and has insanely good cap and never has mwd issues  perma-run it all ya want folks , so, in all fairness i think the cerberus could use some love. again sacrilege is a very very good ship. enjoy."
"imho, 5 heavy assault launchers + mwd + 2 lse ii + 2 or 3 damage mods+dc ii is overpowered. because a setup like that has no weakness.so it need just the grid to fit said setup with only 1 lse, and require one power diag to fit. with one rcu you shouldn't be able to fit 2 lse ii."
"nope it doesnt. first off, the races dont need to be \"balanced\" in the way you envision balance. they are different, as are their ships, which is a good thing.secondly e.g. the navy osprey was made into the fastest caldari cruiser on purpose, to fit a role caldari ships normally dont. so while i dont get the point of \"balancing\" races in a way that they all have very similar ships, ccp does use faction cruisers to provide versatility. why dont you take their offer and move along?if you want to operate outside \"normal caldari tactics\", there you go.plus please do explain whats so much worse about factions cruisers compared to \"plain t2 ships\".navy caracals cost 90m isk, navy ospreys 50m, a cerberus 80m, so where is the big difference?@jimi am not that sure about the kinetic thing. if you do that it doesnt only affect the cerberus, but e.g. also the currently slightly overpowered drake and a lot of other ships. especially taking the drake into account i would be happy to change the caldari bonus from kinetic to guided missiles light, heavy, cruise  where its kinetic only atm.i just dont want a drake with 100k ehp, 200 passive recharge and even a mwd having hams and thus >600dps of any damage type it chooses. that would require some severe bashing with the nerf-bat.so my question to you is, would you accept the kinetic bonus to be changed to guided missiles damage instead?being able to freely choose damage type and utilizing hams more efficiently is just too much, sorry."
"premature postage."
"hilarious, because you just described the sacrilege, add enough capacitor to perma run a mwd and to that too ok?i'm talking heavy missile launchers + mwd + 2 lse ii, not haml, haml should be harder to fit on a cerberus, and require fitting mods.. considering how painfully slow and overall defensively weak the cerberus is, this would imo, be fair.okay the kinetic damage bonus thing.. for just 'guided' missiles? sure why not, it's better than just kinetic in my opinion, although damage to all heavy and all heavy assault would give the cerberus at least some advantage over the sacrilege, which imo is still the better ship, overall, when you take into account its speed, its tank, and especially its capacitor. really, i don't know how much i can stress this, the sacrilege is amazingly good. i don't think the cerberus could ever outshine the sacrilege under 20km no matter what you did to its bonuses.anyways this of course is not a cerberus only issue.. the kinetic damage bonus has bothered me for years. i just don't like it, i don't think compared to turrets, which do two damage types or more it's very fair. missiles just don't do the dps of turrets [torp ravens aside, which do need painters and stuff..] so i never felt that the 1 damage type thing was ever justified.i know the old argument is that 'lasers only do em/thermal' or 'hybrids only do kinetic/thermal' but still it's two damage types, and generally more dps, and on a lot of gunboats you get a drone bay [not all but most] which lets you add an additional damage type -- most caldari ships dont get drone bays. also again, turret dps is better, and missiles do have a lot of limitations overall especially in the nano warfare currently in place, which makes missiles rather ehhhh unless you manage to actually web someone.. but anyways that's just my opinion.i honestly don't know much about drakes. i've only flown them a few times. can't say i am crazy about the ship, i'm sure it's good. i hear from most people its omfgwtfbbq good or its a total noob boat that gets popped easy.. i'm sure it's somewhere in between that.. i know it's better than a nighthawk which is hilarious [and sad]. i've honestly avoided battlecruisers my entire eve career.. only one i can fly that i like is the sleipnir which is a pwnmobile."
"thats sentance makes no sense..its an oxymoron"
"it's been a while since a used a sacrilege, but i don't remember it being able to compete with a cerberus as far as the shield buffer in concerned. the sac has 4 mids, and cerb has 5. that means that after the mwd ans scrambler, the sac has 2 slots to shield tank, the cerberus has 3.if the sacrilege passive-armor tank, it needs 1 1600 plate + 1 rep to compete with the passive shield buffer. except that the added mass make you align more slowly, so that's a double-edged blade. and the fitting requirment is much steeper.so, the sacrilege can't compete defense-wise with the cerberus, unless it goes all-out tanking.then, you're comparing the dps of a long-range setup  apple  with the one of a close-range setup  orange  to try to make your point.a ham cerb with 2 damage mods do something like 440 dps, if i remember correctly. compared to the 487 dps of the ham sacrilege, and bearing in mind that the cerb has more range, it is more than honorable."
"huh? let's back up here..sacrilege can fit 2x lse ii + mwd + scrambler + dmg control, you have a ton more of a buffer than the cerberus. to say the sacrilege can't compete defense-wise to the cerberus is very lulz.. it completely blows the cerberus away.. let's also keep in mind the sacrilege can mwd without cap issues.. you can't fit 2x lse ii on a cerberus without an rcu ii, which further slows the cerberus down unfortunately, which is already slow.for the sake of argument.. can a cerberus do 440 dps with kinetics vs a 485 dps sacrilege with any heavy assault missile? sure. is that dps close? yes, if you stick to kinetics.. sure.. is it as fast as the sac? no. can it maintain mwd forever like the sac? no. can it fit a nosferatu? no. does a haml cerberus have -near- the tank of a sacrilege? hells no. 16k hp vs uh.. i dunno 30k, maybe more depending on your setup, sacrilege is more durable, by far. sacrilege in theory can be actively tanked, cerberus is epic fail with a shield booster and mwd.bottom line is yes the cerberus has more range, but if you are going to fit short range weapons, shouldn't you actually get in disruptor range? in that case you are shooting at the same range as a sacrilege but with half the hp, and slower. not the best situation for a cerberus to be in, best to stay far far away, unfortunately.let's forget about ham setups on a cerberus, i don't wanna really compare it to the sacrilege anymore, it's pointless. sacrilege is just plain better close up, i guess it's supposed to be, fine. i'm concentrating more on the cerberus needing to be better at its role, mid-long range heavy missile tossing. not asking for the cerberus to be a sacrilege, though i find the best haml ship in the game to be an amarr ship rather confusing, but i'll put that argument aside for now."
"i agree that the sacrilege is amazingly good at what it does, applying constant dps to targets closer than 20km. but as its a one trick pony and the ship built for that trick it should outperform imitators. the question is just by how much, but thats a different topic, and you are right that its directly related to caldari ships.what i am more worried about is actually that the caracal navy issue outperforms a cerberus at close to mid ranges  the setup above was no joke, and fitting heavy missiles a navy caracal isnt bad either . and it doesnt even require you to train the hac skill. so, lower skill requirement, better performance.one could say that the cerb is much better long range, and thus its fair, but i think youll be hard pressed to find other faction cruisers that outperform their respective hac.still, i personally do think the navy caracal is overpowered since they added the 6th launcher, instead of the cerb being gimped, so its not the cerbs problem, but maybe the truth lies in between.guided missile bonus instead of kinetic, changing the flight time to a missile speed bonus, id have nothing against bringing that to ccp.regarding drakes ^^, you can make them incredibly powerful, and i personally think they are unbalanced, but as at least 90% of the drakes people encounter are horribly fit  due to them being a favorite new players ship  people dont take that much notice of it.the best ham ship being amarr, from a rp perspective i have no problems with that, i always saw caldari to be \"guided missile\" specialists, while e.g. torps are more of a minmatar thing  brutal and unelegant  and the new hams, also supposedly rather unguided*, a khanid thing."
"yes, but the damage a navy osprey can put out is fairly limited  about caracal level .in general t2 is better than faction t1  at least available from lp stores in empire  with some battleship exceptions and more available. but faction was never a point in balancing ships. faction items and ships stand out or otherwise the speed implants would be already nerfed to hell.oh and jim is arguing that a non-caldari missile hac is better than the caldari missile hac. imagine a minmatar drone hac would outperform the ishtar ... that would be fun."
"gallente ships are better with blasters than caldari ones.so why shouldnt khanid ships be better with hams?the caldari speciality are classically guided missiles and rails.one valid question is though: are javelin hams balanced?using e.g. a drake as reference, fitting 3 bcus and heavy missiles you do 414 missile dps at 84km. with hams you either do 384 at also 84km, which is not that much less, and you have the option to switch ammo to deal ~540 dps close range. doing comparable dps at the same range as heavy missiles if you use javelins, while having an additional short range option, is a bit weird in my opinion, and makes hams a tad unbalanced.with heavy missiles you currently dont have any flexibility.the heart of the problem here are t2 heavy missiles, though, where both types are pretty much useless.if the advantage of using heavies would not only be:- ability to use f.o.f.sbut also:- ability to deal damage to fast ships with precision heavies- outdamage navy ammunition with the fury ones at close rangesthe situation would be very different, also regarding the cerberus<U+FFFD>s versatility."
"i agree to the missile problems, but that changes the cerb situation only a little bit, because it has fitting problems when trying to get any sensible buffer tank + mwd.not that the sac has 2x the ehp and spare fitting for mwd+hamls while the cerd maxes out with hmls+mwd and one lse."
"lets stay with the facts, shall we?while e.g. a dual lse, dc ii sac has 30k ehp, and a lse + invul cerb fit has 21k, thats not your true combat survivability, cause the sac is much weaker in thermal  30% vs 86% resistance , which is a very common damagetype.and the 21k hp fit leaves one midslot free for a small cap booster to fix the cap problem  in addition to the one disrupter/sb/whatever slot .additionally you dont need that much of a buffer tank because you will be far out anyway.the problem, if there is any, is mid-range.changing fury heavies could fix that problem, or nerfing ham javelins a bit.fixing precision heavies would give the cerb a completely new role, being able to apply damage to nano ships without the need to get close enough to web.  this would fix the \"watered down\" raven claim fixing t2 heavies  both kinds  thus would imho fix all cerb problems  except for the kinetic thing, which is a general caldari issue . a double missile speed bonus in additon wont hurt of course.all other problems like \"the tank is still weaker\" are imho imagined ones, not all ships have to be equal, and the cerb does a thing no sac can never do, and it does it outstandingly well, providing standoff dps, which makes up for. and let me just repeat myself, the larger your range the smaller of a buffer you should actually need in combat.the whole this or that ship has more cap, larger tank ... thing gets tiring, even jim seems to agree to it not being the core of the issue.the core of the issue is that javelin hams cut into the cerbs turf, and that t2 heavy missile types are useless, thus limiting the cerbs abilities."
"i just went through the thread again and im admittedly too talkative shouldnt start posting on eve-o during boring work-meetings, i guess.still theres been a lot of, in my opinion, fruitful discussion, and here is:my short and personal conclusionspossible issues:fix precision heavy missiles to add a new role to the cerbchange the cerb missile flight time into another speed bonus to be able to apply dps faster from afarnerf javelin hams, they should maybe give double the range of normal hams, not the full hm range they do the momentmaybe make hams harder to fit by increasing the powergrid requirements. this weakens the tanks on sacrileges, ham drakes and such as a tradeoff for the high dpsthink about changing the kinetic bonus on caldari ships to a guided missile damage bonusyep, if you want to change ease of fittings for hams, i am of the opinion that fitting hams should actually be harder if anything, not easier, and generally have more drawbacks. currently they provide a big dps advantage close up, while still allowing to switch to long range at will and are not even hard to fit on many ships.getting feedback whether you people agree on any of the above would be nice"
"mm i read the first page and what i seen by the op seems wants a easy win ship. learn to use the best what you been provided. every one else seems to know and fly better than you on this ship! dont like the cerb then change ships! simple!"
"actually jim is arguing that the heavy missile spec cerb is worse than the ham spec hac when using ham's. and thats really just working as intended.the only really valid concern here is that javelin ham's might be overpowered."
"well i agree for all except the pwg fits, that means most caldari ships cept maybe the drake wont be able to use them.it doesnt make sense for the missile race not to be able to use a certain type of missiles lol"
"agreedcould change this by increasing heavy missile velocity further, at the expense of flight time  so same range as before , which would mean that though you get nearly as much dps, at nearly as much range  for a significant velocity penalty i might add , it takes longer for it to travel the distance and start hitting the target.personally i don't think this is a problem, as you are trading a lot of speed to get the range, meaning that a ship can avoid damage while applying it effectively  with heavies  by staying at higher speed, while the javelin ham using ship cannot deal much  due to the heavy missile users speed  and takes more.sac grid/cpu is based on mwd/injector/5 ham/dual mar tank, with maxed fitting skills that just squeezes on  if you want to balance grid requirements with tank, helps if you use the right tank mods  .ham drake's ehp style fit is balanced with other fits in its class, and trades having buffer regen for less dps when compared to platecane/hp harb, and more dps for less ability to repair and resist cap warfare when compared to 1600mm plate fmp harb.therefore i think this conclusion poor and based on false premise.does this not make hams less viable on a caldari ship than now? at least as it stands one damage type gets a boost."
"the sac has a 3k/sec+ permanantly running mwd and has full tackle so anything fast enough to pin it down with a web  huggin rapier not included  is going to die. i would say that having more effective hitpoints, more speed  permanantly  and full tackle more than makes up for the fact that it has **** thermal resists.as for the sac being limited to hams well thats just total *******s. there are videos in these forums showing nano sacs using heavies excellently with very nice range. a sac does the same dps with heavies as a cerb except with kinetic, just like the cerb with hams except that the sac tanks better, is much much faster and has full tackle and all the cerb gets is a bit of range. the cerb is a fun ship to fly but it has no role which the sac cant fill better whether it is in a fleet, a small gang and most certainly on its own.there is no such role as sniping with heavy missiles beyond 100k. its ridiculous."
"while you are principally right, in my opinion active tanking is pretty much broken at the moment. different issue, but comparing a dual rep tank, where you need at least 3 low and 1 medium slots, doesnt compare that good to a pure 3 low slot buffer tank with a plate.and in a sac just using 3 lows and the 2 rigs as tank, due to the armor resist bonus you get ~60k ehp and 500 dps, which is not bad for a hac. too much, no idea.but anyway, using a passive tank and comparing it with e.g. the zealot, where when you do 500 dps with navy multifreqs, the maximum passive tank you can fit is around 45k ehp, as you cant squeeze a 1600mm plate on.with the sacrilege its no problem at all, and you have some spare pg. plus you do nice reliable dps of a damage type of your choosing.my experiences with passive armor-tanking other hacs are non existant, but doing it on the sacrilege does seem to be very easy. maybe the zealot is just underpowered, no experience there, sorry.i imagine what could have happened  need to look it up  is that the pg of the sac is still the one intended for lasers, and thus fitting hams leaves a lot of pg over."
"max skilled zealot with mar t2/1600mm rt/2x anp t2/2x heatsink t2/dc t2, 2x trimark rigs, 5 fmp t2 with an mf = 51k ehp, 440 dpsmax skilled sacrilege with mar t2/1600mm rt/eanm t2/n-type thermic hardener/bcu t2, trimark and acr  to fit 5 ham on  with 5 ham t2  cn ham , 3 hogoblin t2 = 50.6k ehp, 427 dpspg of sac is based on it being used with some kind of armor tank, if it loses grid/cpu, or the hams take up more, it will not work as intended, so that will not happen. every one of my sac fits  apart from the mwd/lse/point/web fit  has less than 10% grid spare, and most have less than 5%  120ish and 60ish respectively ."
"most sacs are 2x lse ii + dmg control tanked, gives you good buffer of hp doesn't hurt your speed and leaves you ton of grid to spare, i'm not fond of the fact the sacrilege has no cap issues with a mwd like other hacs, rather lame."
"most i have seen are either fit similarly to lyria's  3 od/mar/bcu , or mwd/point/web/lse  armour rep optional .this is somewhat beside the point of my post, the sac has fitting room commensurate with it being an armour tanked ship, that plate fitting was just in response to something lucai said about plate tanking amarr hacs.this is somewhat beside the point of the thread, which is that the cerb needs a bit of love, and i have stated my support for that opinion, and also for your proposed changes to give it that love."
"this is a ******ed slap flight between a pair of idiots that can't fit ships not supriseingly.the cerb is a long range engagement ship although it has a ham bonus for some reason it really shouldn't.the sac is a close range **** face ship that can make any solo nano***ger run the hell away if you look at them funny."
"guys! a stilleto is completely out dps'ed and outclassed by a ship that is both not designed to fill the same role but they both use projectiles damnit. this means the stilleto is broken and obviously must be fixed."
"in iceland, torfi franz  or whatever his name was  gave a short presentation on ccp's progress with ambulation, and i think mentioned that they were thinking of things that people would be able to do while in stations. what i propose is an idea for this, and it involves basically stealing a feature from lord of the rings online wholesale. lotro allows player avatars to buy musical instruments and use number keys to play tunes and things. for most people, you can pump out a song about as intricate as you could using the ocarina in tloz:oot, but there are ways to upload song midis into it so you can get it to play pretty much any song automatically.in lotro, you can use a 3rd party javascript program to turn a midi file into a .abc file, and then you put that in the my games/lotro/music folder. in game, you whip out your guitar, clarinet, bagpipes, whatever, then you type \"/music\" and then \"/play [song]\". then the game will start playing whatever you converted from a midi.so if ccp is looking for something cool to put into ambulation, do this. lotro isn't the kind of game i like  and for the record, i uninstalled it before the trial was over  but when i heard about the music playing bit it was enough to get me to try it out. think about how many people would be willing to give eve a try if they were enticed by the promise of being able to play hava nagila on electric guitar or scatman on a sousaphone, in eve?think about it"
"this...is a far better idea than i would have expected. you'd get a bit of a different demographic, and you'd get a lot of people doing odd things with it. i want to see this happen just for the people busking in jita 4/4, and to see what griefers would do with it. the intersection of those two cases sounds fun as well. now, the real question is, who's in for making guitar hero a minigame?"
"holy **** that is gay hell no"
"give us this feature. i shall busk in the hallways of jita 4-4, and be the richest man in eve."
"/signed"
"uh.uh.look at this shameful *****, thinkin' ****, talkin' ****, without walkin' ****. he ain' gonna get away with that **** if he keeps on startin' ****."
"y'all *****z keep ****in' around an' get stuck in the ground."
"i'm entirely into this idea."
"never have i seen an idea... that has bellowed from the rooftops louder...\"i am a care bear. and i want to play bagpipes in space!\""
"as long as there are bag pipes and dragonforce i'm down"
"bah! bagpipes? i want to create an orchestra from the bones and organs of a spacewhale and play the 1812 overture with them!maybe blowing up a few serpentis while i'm at it.ladadradadadada da da! boom!!!ladadradadadada da da! boom!!!"
"i was incredibly confused as to why this thread had 9 supporting votes, but upon reading it...hell yeah!"
"this idea rules"
"this idea is the worst idea in the history of ideas."
"sure why not"
"if by gay you mean totally fracking awesome bro"
"ill play the skin flute"
"no.the eve elite do not bring their own instruments from their ships and play in public like a bunch of hippies. i have nothing against hippies! "
"hahahaha"
"i'm only going along with this if some kind of synchronized hip-thrusting can also be incorporated."
"those of us who are far happier not to be associated with the backstabbing, cynical and ruthless folks who generally consider themselves to be the eve elite might do though.since i have an honours degree in performing arts, i feel obliged to give this my support although for the record i still think ambulation should be about #200 on the list of things devs should spenmd their time fixing/implementing."
"supported - it shouldn't be that unwieldy. perhaps this could be presented as an addendum to the black ops topic already passed and presented during the iceland trip?"
"ohhhh yes, support this wholeheartedly.the nightmare became a t1 marauder w/o the tractor bonus. the rest of the faction ships... meh, why bother, imo. nice collectors' items with little use in the current game scheme.and where are the faction destroyers/battlecruisers?empire faction ships need some serious love... they're entirely pointless sub-bs but are far, far, far too expensive for what you get. they're supposed to be rewards for dedication, then make having them rewarding, give people a reason to go out there and get them blown up."
"yay to more shiny and actually useful toys : "
"not supported since removing learnings is not an option for me... yes there is an issue with learning skills but thats not the solution!training the adv. learnings to level 5 for example takes ages and that only pays off if you want to play eve for several years. yes i am playing eve for a very long time now and when i entered the game everyone was laughing at me because i trained all my learning skills to level 5  by that time there were no adv. learning skills .well training the learning skills up to level 4 is really not a big matter of time for a new player and after that its a matter of taste if you want to stay in eve for a long time of only for a few months. if you want to train them up to level 5 or not... you need check if you like the game and want to continue with playing it or not. i think the learnings are good as they are and i wont cry if ccp goes one step further and creats another batch of learning skills which are rank 5 ...its just another question of time if you want to train those up to level 5 then since you will need to play eve for ages then to make a profit out of that"
"the primary beneficiaries of \"removing\"  ie: free  learning skills would be older players who want alts.whenever this topic pops up, it's the older players arguing for removal  cf: op  and the newer players in the thread that are saying it's fine."
"i completely agree that learning skills could go away.some of you say they are an \"option\"... and that some players \"may not choose to take them\".and you'd be the same players who point and laugh when someone starts playing and says \"gee, i didn't train those yet. should i?\"given the popularity of evemon, and the near necessity of its usage... any training plan that takes more than a few days will usually cause at least one learning skill to be \"suggested\".and any eve players guide you could find online will suggest the same thing. learning 4/5, basics 4, advanced 4.so those \"optional\" skills are pretty much manditory, unless you want to spend months trying to get into a cruiser. as it stands, i hear it takes about 22 years to get all level v's. if someone didn't take the learning tree...right now, people make a new character... and then wonder what to do for the first month or so while they get their learning up to par.so i'd agree, implants could boost learning as they already do. but eliminate the learning tree entirely. either make the skills train at the fastest rate they could now... or leave them slow and let everyone suffer for it.\"awesome! i'm gonna crosstrain to another frigate. only have to wait 2 months before i can fly it!\""
"oppose!every time this topic comes up, i just laugh to myself. eve is different from almost every game in the depths to which you can customize your character with the amount of skills available. more choice is good, less choice is bad. has anyone put a gun to your head to make you train any skill?some call learning skills a time sink, it is indeed the opposite allowing you to get far greater reward in return. this am i created an alt, as close as i could remember to mirror my main.   pretty close also there was a difference in only 2 starting skill levels . both toons tuned to favor an industrial/research line of progression. i then loaded 2 evemon plans for this toon, to train to fly   fly only   a mimatar titan  ragnorok .with no learning skills total training is 44 skills   12 unique  total training time 581 d, 9h, 31m, 28 sec. cost 5,964,570,000 isk.wtih suggested learning skills 80 skills 22 unique 263 d, 6h, 1m, 12s cost 5,989,720,000.the plan calls for lvl5 in learning, spatial awareness and iron will, lvl 4 in instant recall, empathy, focus,and clarity lvl 3 in eidetic memory and logic and lvl2 in presence. if i start today, 23 july, i will finish august 21.it does not take a rocket scientist to see the advantage here. 318 days off training time, is in no way a time sink, it means you have to stop and think. am i so stubborn that i hate learning skills so much, that i will forego almost a year of training so i can avoid that waste of my time?if you don't want to train learning, just don't do it. claiming it to be a time sink is false. giving everybody atributes in exchange only dumbs down the game. remember more choice is good.right now someone that created a character at the same time as i did, and concentrated on combat related skills instead of the learning as i have, would easily kick my butt, in a couple months we will be even, and in 6 months, i gurantee, the butt kicking will be reversed."
"oooh...now that could be interesting. you wouldn't directly train learning skills, but they would advance depending on a number of factors  what skills you do have trained and to what levels, your total sp, etc. . that way they naturally, over time, advance as your character trains more and more skills. it's a more realistic way of doing it and it would mean you get to focus on training other skills while eventually earning the benefits of the learning skills."
"that... was a fantastic tale. and i want to thank you for sharing it with us. however...i heard a quote in a thread a while back, and it's stuck with me since.\"people don't want variety. they want the best.\"so saying \"learning skills are just another option\", while at the same time demonstrating that without them, a ship would take you a year longer to get into... is laughable.rookies just barely joining the game are being told by rookie chat, their own npc corp chat, and any pc corp they might join... that they may as well use their 2-3 weeks trial time to get the learning skills out of the way. then when they start paying, they are ready to play the game.there is no way, other than psychotic delusions, that anyone could believe the learning tree is anything other than mandatory.now... if every skill trained at a set rate, with only implants to boost, that would be different.if skills trained faster, as you accrued sp to reflect your own \"practice\" at studying, that would also be different.but saying \"someone could skip those skills entirely, they'll just take forever to get anywhere useful\"..."
"i'm not one to present my cases thoroughly, and accompanied by extensive mathematical calculations, but i feel this one doesn't need such. the idea is simple. although not really a neccessity, it'd be nice if all remote repair/shield transfer-capable ships had a role bonus for remote hull repair systems. that pretty much includes logistics, and carriers only.sure, who'd use this in battle? it's use comes up when a ship is so badly damaged its repair costs are high, or for the break-time in battles.either range, or amount bonus, if not both. it wouldn't give any significant advantages to anyone  aside saving a bit of isk "
"anything to make pos / outpost repairs less of a bore."
"i'd be happy if the hull repair modules native and remote  would just stop sucking so hard, but this change works too."
"yes!fix the bugs! let us go a year without a major content patch and spend that time fixing bugs, balancing bugged things, and making intended things work as intended."
"it makes sense that i should have access to the entire cargo hold of a ship in my personal hangar.when the ship is moved to the corp hangar it should revert to only what the ship has fitted  expanders & rigs , and if the current cargo exceeds that i should not be able to remove it from my hangar without reducing the cargo. likewise i should not be able to trade it to a corpie for the same reason  because the game cannot factor that corp member's skills until the ship is in their hangar .likewise, if i pack a ship full, undock, and then eject the cargo remains in the ship  the excess was once ejected in a can ... when someone with lesser skills boards the ship, what happens then?i will issue 'support' for this feature, but only while said ship is in my possession."
"i was gonna say... i read an approach to this topic. which mentioned that stats have to be taken into account when it comes to any fittings. that's why the warning when you eject states \"some items could fall off, if your skills were the only thing holding the ship together\".so that's probably why the cargo seems to shrink, because it's not actively calculating your skills.i could understand any ship in the hanger taking your skills into account. but i would still leave free floating ships the way they are. if you pack every inch of an indy, and then eject, then you should find a lot of excess cargo floating right next to your pod."
"someone please, please kick ccp in the gonads about the damn client windows jumping all over the place, resize themselves, or close randomly regardless if they're pinned or not!"
"windjammer, through this post you have time and again proven your ignorance and misjudgement. its really been something to read!endless is 100% correct in his summation that as it stands, self destructing is imbalanced and in need of reworking. there is no downside to initiating self destruct, in any circumstance, despite the obvious negative effects it has on your opponents by denying loot. as the game mechanics stand now all strong players should initiate self destruct every time they are attacked. as a matter of fact they should start it even when they attack someone else! if the fight starts to go foul just let the timer go and deny loot. if you're winning, turn it off. in this way by the time the fight goes bad you might be down to a 30 second timer or less. as the mechanics stand, and if pilots took advantage, any fight lasting over 2 minutes would result in no loot for the victors. i won't insult everyone's intelligence by listing all the possible fights that take longer than 2 minutes to conclude but this mechanic punishes...solo pirate work. small gangs in small ships that engage larger ships with big tanks. any single ship or gang that is low on dps.newer characters who are due to skillpoints confined to smaller ships, typically cruisers and below who engage larger ships.in effect this mechanic is also promoting blobbing and discouraging creativity in setups, as heavy dps loadouts will be required to extract loot from smart players who initiate self destruct. as for those of us in this post who have not seen this be a problem and thus believe it does not need to be changed, this logic is seriously flawed on a fundamental level. as endless simalarly put it, players not using a broken mechanic because they're bad, is not an example of a blanced mechanic, it is an example of bad play. this logic is akin to living in a town where murder is legal, but figuring that this is ok since you have never personally seen many murders. lastly, all claims that not bringing heavy dps is somehow less honorable or poorer play, are moronic, and again discourage creativity. pilots shouldn't be punished for equiping modules other than guns if it still gets the job done, just a little slower."
"remove insurance on self-distruct.make pod pop too.that's all."
"given the very nautical nature of eve... the idea of self destruct is more akin to \"scuttling\" a ship.this is done when one is overpowered, in order to deprive the victor of their spoils.so... \"the game is working as intended\"."
"here's something of a first. i'm not going to respond to what he wrote. i believe he's so obviously wrong, i don't really have to point out the flaws in his thinking. anyone can see them.windjammer"
"i'ma gonna come in here and make a really stupid argument that is as stupid in this issue as in another not-to-be-named issue:deny insurance for self destructs!muhahahhahahahahhahaha"
"you know, this made me wonder if this was the reason the csm failed the first time."
"not supported... there was a vote for the csm! next time vote different but nope this is not the way..."
"i support this idea. she should be removed from the whole csm."
"democracy doesnt seem to be a well known concept in this thread 1  people voted jade into the csm position. if you dont agree, vote differently, there is nothing else you can do, and there shouldnt be anything. people voted jade, and thats it for this term.2  you do realize that democracy doesnt work like: someone gets voted and then represents your interest.what actually happens is:people state their agenda to get voted, and if they get voted, in the ideal case they support this agenda.at no point they have to turn around and support anything else or even things people that didnt vote them want.they may try to do that to get voted again next time, but regarding one term its simple:person a has a personal agenda, person a gets voted to support that agenda, person a works to make that personal agenda come true.csms are not supposed to personally, each single one, cater to the whole of all eve players. they are sort of supposed to cater to the people who voted them, but in reality they are supposed to represented themselves, as people supposedly voted them based on their personal interests and stated personal agenda.its a miracle how so many people are seemingly so naive regarding democracy."
"just found this, thanks@inanna.people should probably read it before looking stupid in here."
"when i started reading this thread i was neutral. i have however come to the conclusion that the position of chairperson as currently administered is impeding the work that could be accomplished. my stepfather was the town moderator in a small new england town, for many years. for those unfamiliar with the forum, a traditional town meeting is a pure democracy. the various committees and boards make proposals for local laws, budgets and the like, also citizens can propose articles for a vote at the town meeting. at the appointed time, all registered voters are welcome to attend the meeting and vote on every article.the moderators job is to keep the meeting flowing, maintain order, and allow for full discussion, pro and con on all items. the key to acheiving this is roberts rules of order. this assures one topic at a time is on the floor, and discussion is restricted to the item in question. and all arguments that have reasonable bearing on the item are allowed.now my step dad was good, our meetings stayed pretty much on topic and i never recall anyone having an opinion to express being denied an opportunity to speak. hitting a mute button seems a failure in leadership.my personal experience involved establishing small civic organizations. having been elected chair, my first suggestion was to establish some rules; rule #1, we would follow roberts rules of order. rule # 2 the chair could suspend roberts, rule #3, the chair could invoke roberts at any time.this gave us a firm foundation in established rules, and also the flexability to be less formal if we so choose. rule #1 for rules and budget meetings, rule# 2 for most others.it worked very well. part of it may be my upbringing. when it comes to free speach i firmly believe in the saying \" i disagree with everything you are saying, but will defend to the death, your right to say it.\"this is the attitude needed if a chair is to be effective. the chair should only vote to break a tie   or create one  ; they need to be as neutral in all matters before the committe as humanly possible,and they need to hear all valid arguments pro and con.i do not want as chair, someone with the power to prevent my representitive from voting   i did not vote for any of the people mentioned in this discussion, but the one i did vote for, is on the council.  if the actions of the chair invalidate the vote of my rep, then i am disenfranchised. actions like this will doom this adventure to failure.the responses posted by jade in this thread lead me to honestly question if he has the maturity required to lead this endeavor. a better way need to be implace to prevent a total collapse of this experiment."
"dr. jim boren said it best.\"bureaucracy is the epoxy that greases the wheels of progress.\""
"i dont like how we have a creepy grown man who roleplays as a girl named jade representing eve."
"bump"
"all polycarb rigs in the galaxy should be taken off the market, stuffed into an iteron mk5, and warped straight into the center of a sun and incinerated.speed tanking is dumb, insanely dumb. i am tired of hearing people say its not dumb, because it is on the contrary, dumb. if any ship is going to 'speed tank', it should be frigates, as they die insanely fast otherwise.if i hear one more person say his dual lse ii vagabond with 9k shields and 75/60/40/50 shield resists will instantly implode if it goes 3.5km/s instead of 8km/s i'm going to scream.yes, this is ruining the freakin' game ccp, ruining it big time./rawr"
"supported. it would seem that it's an oversite in design to allow them to so easily be destroyed. easily corrected too."
"citadel torps badly need boosts, and a lot of them. drop their rof 30 seconds instead of 48 would put damage fits of the phoenix and naglfar about equal with the moros for dps, which is appropriate given that they have flight time as a concern , increase their hp dramatically, and triple their speed while reducing their flight time by 2/3. it'd dramatically improve my defender missile suggestion too, but that's incidental. making the other two dreadnoughts playable is a worthwhile change in its own right."
": "
"agreed!put all faction items into the market database so escrows are not neccessary, and a price valuation can be established  primarily for ships .insurance should be a percentage of total market valuation throughout eve, discarding prices that are wildly out of variance to the norm. ccp has all market data available to them, the computational code should not be too difficult. after all, eve-central does it!this, insurance becomes dynamic at the time you buy it!ship loss due to self destruct & concord have no payout, not even the default 30%. a flag should be inserted showing the relation between two ships, however, in instances where non-corps accidentally shoot one another while ganged in a mission, but it must be resolved solely via petition  to recieve insurance only, not to reimburse the ship for whoops factor ."
"not getting an insurance when shot by concord gets my full support.blazing fire ceo interstellar operations incorporated corp web site services [service] killboard hosting [service] forum hosting [service] web site hosting [service] alliance creation"
"why give the harpy double optimal bonus? granted, it's in line with the eagle, cormorant, and rokh, but as an anti-frig/inty vessel tracking would be much more viable"
"i agree 100% with the op. fixing afs by giving them the same mass as their t1 hulls is such an obvious and simple thing to do that you have to wonder why the devs have not done this years ago.i think the reason has something to do with the devs not wanting a viable entry level t2 pvp ship to be able to be flown effectively by relatively new players  e.g. only 6 months of fee paying -note they are happy with new palyers using an effective t2 pve ship though .effective afs should be fun to pvp in even for players with years of fee paying skill points. not all experienced players have the isk to burn on losing lots of 100 million+ hacs on daily roams, however, most players could afford to field and loose multiple afs and would have more fun loosening lots of afs during the same roams into enemy territory, than looseing a single high priced hac.ps: yes i know some people retort saying that giving afs the same mass of t1 frigs will make interceptors not worth flying, but this argument is obviously false to anyone who has ever flown an interceptor, because we already go against such ships as a t1 nano rifter which achieves speeds of about 3.5kps while fitting t2 guns. the ops change to af mass would only allow af to match the speed that their sister t1 frigs already have  e.g. afs 3.0 to 3.5 kps get hit by regular missiles flying over 3.75 kps vrs interceptors 6.0 to 12.0 kps which can out speed even a max skill boosted cerbs missiles flying at over 8 kps "
"not going into details, i support the general idea."
"this is badly needed. assault frigates could have a lot of potential."
"i agree, we just need to flesh out what the role of the assault frigate really is nowadays.for the most part, as it stands, theres nothing an af can do that a cruiser can't do better and cheaper."
"afs need 4th bonus."
"i like the fix of making af using afterburners immune to webs more than this solution."
"why not make all abs give resistance to webs and keep their minor speed boosts, and give afs a bonus to said ab web resistances? too broken?"
"this is a pretty good idea, one of the better for afs. could make them alot more fun, if they were more tankable and/or had more dps."
"a few things i think would nice to have ingame.it seems only logical to add gallente navy drones to the gal navy lp store since the gallente are the \"drone race\".gallente ships that specialize in certain drones. the ew ships should have a bonus to ew drones. mining ships should have bonuses to mining drones. no more blanket bonuses for drone use, we have enough of these all purpose ships. ships with bonuses to specific tasks.stop giving everyone drone use. by making them standard fair on all ships you make them hard to balance and expand for the gallente as an effective drone or drone module for a nondrone ship is overpowered on a ship like the ishtar or domi. if you cant do that then be fair and give the domi a couple missle hardpoints. what i could do with a couple of those.the gallente invented drones and it should show. from having ships built to use specific drones more effectively to offering special drones in their lp stores, the gallente should start to be a little like the story that the devs have written about them and less like the caldari."
"i agree with this but i think it would fall under the topic of a general re-balance that is already discussed in another thread.look here"
"the reason is it requires more skills and more bpos. thus it serves as a barrier for anyone wanting to break into the field, whether a new player or someone who's done something else for a while and decides to try it out."
"i don't get it how you guys come up with such things. it is just as if you had an idea but never think about all the factors ever. missing the big red sign in the middle of the road much ? thumbs down."
"which big red sign would that be? your opinions are far more useful to us if you explain what they are."
"i support, but only if you remove t1 items as loot."
"supported, and would do so again and again"
"yes, please. this will add much needed complexity and realism to t1.for those whining about having to actually do work to build t1 ships and mods: just buy the components off the market directly. this will allow newer players to build components and sell them to older players who don't wish to bother.for those complaining that their slots will be clogged: i recommend that many more slots be added to lowsec stations. this will give industrialists  of which i am one  a reason to go to lowsec."
"it's an intriguing idea but my fear would be the effect on prices and ship production profit.let's say, for sake of example, a producer buying minerals and building a ship looks to make 10% profit on mineral costs to sell the ship.now, let's add in an initial producer, producing components from minerals that are then used to build a ship. either: - one producer does the whole process himself and sells for 10% above mineral cost; or - a producer produces components, seeking a return above mineral cost, and a producer produces a ship from components, seeking a return above component cost.in the first case, one guy still does it all and all the new idea has added is another step in a producer's processes that isn't particularly exciting.in the second case: - if the ship price and the mineral costs remain the same, the two producers will each receive a reduced profit  if shared equally, it reduces production profit down to 5% on materal costs ; or - ship prices rise by 10%  broadly  to mean production remains as profitable as ever.i am not convinced the balance of the market is such that prices would simply rise by 10%. i suspect that, in practice, there would be a small rise, since there will always be a number of producers willing to do the whole lot themselves and provide downward pressure.the result would be that: - starting producers and producers not running the whole process would suffer reduced profits from component/ship manufacture - producers with sufficient infrastructure in place to run the whole process themselves will see more profits coming their way.i'd vote no on that basis. since i think there is already little enough profit in tech 1 production for smaller and newer producers. i do like the idea of adding complexity to the production path  i am a producer myself  but i don't think this is the way to do it.fin"
"should have been there from the beginning."
"how do you add complexity to production if you keep the one-step path of \"minerals plus blueprint equals spaceship\"?"
"i support.i support the removal of named items from loot and the replacement with components to keep minerals from ratting/missions ok.i support as a step in implementing meta bpos for all non-faction gear to be player made as well."
"short answer - not this way, as i stated and for the reasons that i stated. : i think you may have misunderstood my statement  my own fault as i wasn't clear enough - in my opinion, the career path of a producer needs more complexity  i referred to this as the \"production path\"  - this does not need to equate to adding steps to the existing production process.in fact, i think that adding a new \"first step\" to the existing production process is going to cause more harm than good.my argument is that, as far as i see it: - the proposal is likely to make production less profitable for new players and not exactly encourage them into production as a result  new producers can aways build modules - do they really need a new barrier to entry to producing ships and the option to build components at what i think will be lower profit? ; on the other hand - the proposal means that existing experienced producers will be buying components to build ships rather than buying minerals to build ships - now that's not exactly enhancing their game play either.as an example of what i think is a much better suggestion - another thread has suggested introducing an advanced form of tech 1 production to get higher meta level modules with use of skills and possible other components. this adds something to the production path and is far more worthy of support. i am sure that there are other suggestions that have been made or could be arrived at that add a new feature to explore and make production as a career more complex. adding an extra step that potentially harms the smaller producer isn't the way to do it.fin"
"dumb idea, i don't support this at all.not only will it drive new players away from production  because new players will not have access to researched bpos, so will be forced to buy it all. they can't research them as there is no research in empire for a new industrialist unless they own a pos  but it will add another layer of time into ship production that is simply not needed.leave things as they are, they're plenty complicated enough as is."
"bump"
"posting to support this idea and also to bring this back to the front for the guys opening new topics about this very issue."
"should be simple to add, every other forum i have ever been on has it"
"no need. the support is used to determine if the issue should be brought up, negatives would have no bearing."
"d ^_^ b"
"signed"
"i dont think alot pirates and murderers and the like would use proper loving language. this is a game for adults and people should be able to speak however they see fit and the players should make people pay if they dont like a player's rude swagger, not gms.as long as the talk isnt racist or real life threatening, people should be able to speak however they want about the game."
"and yet ccp is trying to keep from having to put an esrb rating on their website.same reason as no nudity when ambulation comes in: trying to stay in a low teen rating. sorry, speaking your mind and using offensive language in a non-rp forum isn't the same thing"
"tl; dr. defenders suck and any suggestion is probably good."
"a possible fix  not to redo your idea  is to introduce a specialized launcher for defenders themselves. you activate it, and it stays on until it runs out of ammo. the way it works is if it detects a missile being launched at a friendly target, it launches a defender to intercept. simple."
"defenders are useless atm... something needs to be done!!!btw also take a look at npcs using defenders plz... maybe some changes will make less ppl using  navy  ravens for missions... with a missile boats missions are too easy anyways, everybody uses a raven another issue: golem... 100% bonus to missiles but plz also to missile hp since it would suck against any ship using defenders..."
"defenders have needed fixing for a long time now, and this seems like a balanced solution. kudos!"
"actually, each race should get a countermeasure system specific to that race, as a dedicated utility module.amarr - guidance overload pulse battery  burns out missile guidance, they fly off uselessly until out of fuel .caldari - defender missile bay  what we have now gallente - flak battery  long range aoe - potential to eliminate many missiles at once minmatar - phalanx interception battery  high rof autocannon that chews incoming missiles to pieces .each one adds a different 'flavor' to the defensive method and range to engagement but overall each being equally effective."
"current situation -turret support mods   5 damage mods  low tracking computers  low tracking enhancers  mid target painters  mid web  mid turret counter mods   4 tracking disruptors  mid ecm  mid remote damps  mid speed mods  mid, low missile support mods   3 damage mods  low target painters  mid web  mid missile counter mods   4 possibly 5 ecm  mid remote damps  mid speed mods  mids low smart bombs  high defenders  high as it stands now missiles have more counters against them and fewer ways to improve their performance when compared to turrets. turning defenders into a missile-only countermeasure without offering a low or mid-slot mod that improves missile velocity, explosion velocity, flight time, etc is entirely unbalanced.defenders belong in the game once missile ships are given more mods to improve their performance."
"indeed few would have full racks of defenders. unless of course they were attempting to protect a capital ship from a dreadnought firing citadel torps in which case a raven  or couple of drakes  could completely negate a phoenix's ability to do damage. does that seem right to you?"
"while point defence systems are an excellent idea  as any real-world armed service will tell you  it's unfair that only missiles should receive countermeasures. rather than launch missiles in bulk  since we don't like doing that in the real world , maybe just give a percentage chance of success for deflection/interception.just as an example; i haven't given this a great deal of thought:rockets: 90% chancestandard missiles: 50% chanceheavy missiles: 35% chancecruise missiles: 25% chancetorpedoes: 10% chance...and so on.as explained above, this concept should then extend further to other modules types which would intercept, or perhaps deflect  i.e, reduce damage from , shots from projectile, hybrid and laser turrets. we'd have one module for each class. needless to say, the firing rate of any such modules would probably have to be zero since it's possible to fire the entire 8 gun rack simultaneously.scratch that, we'd have two modules: one which protects its parent ship and one which defends everything within its protection range. it would be ideal if protection chances decreased, the further you went from the protector but aside from being  i presume  a pain to programme, you'd only encourage everyone to huddle around the defender like a metallic slime mould.these modules could work in the way hitachi morimoto described: you simply turn them on and they defend you until they empty themselves.the big question is whether or not they would be vulnerable to ecm. i'm inclined to say yes on this point, with perhaps modules that are invulnerable to ecm available on the side, but requiring large amounts of cpu as they need to use their own sensors instead of leeching off the ship's.hmm, i just thought of a new possibility for a logistics class cruiser , which increases interception chance, range and gives a cpu need bonus. such a thing might make fleet engagements more interesting - or at least longer-lived.edit: what slots would such modules take up? turrets or launchers? if we're doing missile interception with defenders fired from launcher modules, this'll leave those ships without launcher slots high and dry. just a thought, though."
"well tbh that was what i asked myself when i first entered these forums ...id like to see an answer to this question"
"please make sure you search before posting a new thread. this was one of the first issues raised."
"even if raised before, still needs thumbs up for thumbs down."
"or you could go to the original topic and register your support there instead. seriously, if you guys want this issue implemented then one topic with 100+ supports against it is going to be more likely to be noticed than 10 different topics with only 10 or so support on each.edit: link provided to original thread"
"or maybe ccp should pay a few people to moderate their own damned forums?how many hundreds of topics are reposted every week, if not every day... because there is no organization.and even when an attempt at organization is made, such as \"commonly proposed ideas\" is stickied at the top... no one reads those. or they're out of date, and don't reflect the rant of the week."
"heh, teach me to post while i'm tired and hungry, that last post came over as just a little bit too sarcastic.in a way i can understand the original poster in this, i struggled to locate that thread with the forums own search function, it took a visit to eve-search.com to track it down. though that, in itself, is an issue that needs to be resolved."
"i also see this as the tail wagging the dog. if your guns have a hard time tracking why would you invent a divice that requires you to get up point blank, where your long range guns lose are pointless, and invalidate half of your weapon systems and the other half not be absolutely fantastic. i could understand that if webbers worked at long range but they dont for a reason. so that argument is dated at best.i could see an argument for the minmatar using target painters except again it nerfs the minmatar just like ecm nerfs the caldari. if signature radius was a much larger determining factor in hitting a target then i could understand....except signature radius is insane and completely out of what as well. it seems to be based on lottery when creating ships as opposed to anything else.example: compare the signature radius and physical size in game of a rohk and megathron.rokh 500m megathron 400mguess which one is bigger when parked side by side? the mega."
"i'd prefer 1 \"balance and fix\" expension to 5 \"new  pseudo  content\" expensions."
"my understanding of the original ideology of the races and the stories about them support this ideology yet the actual modules and statistics in the game fail miserably at upholding that ideology.gallante used very large slow ships with drones to fight the caldari successfully yet now their ships are faster, designed for close up combat, and for the most part have smaller signature radius' than caldari ships. direct departure from perceived intent and written cannon of the gallente. the gallente do armor tank which is fine but isn't the added mass of armor counter intuitive to speed and agility? doesnt size directly relate to signature radius? wouldnt the larger, heavier, gallente ships be slower and have larger signature radius than smaller faster caldari ships? they should but in reality they are not. the cannon also makes reference to gallente ships being good for orbital bombardment. seeing as though the atmosphere and gravity well of earth requires you to reach a height of around 100km above the surface. so why would a blaster boat be a good orbital bombardment platform when its best ammo wouldnt reach the surface much less allow it to cover a wide area of the surface. drones protect them up close and rails protect them at range. their bonuss and ship designs should reflect that but for the most part the bonuss are completely opposite.caldari used smaller faster ships to fight the gallente successfully yet now their ships are slower, apparently larger due to signature radius', and seem to be specifically geared towards staying at long or very long range from the enemy which would go completely against having a smaller faster fleet . again, a direct departure from cannon. the caldari shield tank which few will refute is, for the most part, inferior to armor tanking. yet shields have no mass why would they be slower and have a larger signature radius? why would a military society depart from the configuration that allowed it to hold its own against a much bigger opponent? i also never understood where this idea came from that the caldari are missile *****s. as far as i have seen the cannon never mentions the caldari missiles being the reason why the gallente developed drones. it does however mention that the caldari responded to drones by creating frigates not missiles. they didnt create huge lumbering barges that spewed missiles like crazy they used smaller faster harder hitting vessels as a combat multiplier and to offset drones. missiles work well against drones but only because they dont use mwds unlike virtually everyone else that is pvping today. haha i killed your drones before you owned me sucker!!! yeah that is attrition warfare, something that the smallest population in the galaxy would not be suited too. there is nothing wrong with a race being missile *****s except missiles are so incredibly useless compared to guns that you nerf an entire society in the process. they sure can run missions though! continued..."
"amarr have huge ships that focus on getting in and soaking up more damage than the other guy. their ships are not always the slowest which seems a little odd but what really gets skewed is that the best tanked ships seem to have the best overall weapon system. yes they consume cap and this can be an achilles heel at times but they also require no ammo, do a huge amount of damage, and by far have the best overall tracking of turret based weapons. now all of this wouldn't be so bad except that other than a slot for an after burner or micro warp drive all the mids on an armor tank are open for use as either cap rechargers or some type of ew which further expands the usefulness of an armor tank while shield tanks suffer the exact opposite fate of being highly restricted and still being worse than an armor tank. this is compounded by the fact that ccc's bear no penalty while all shield modules do, though signature radius is almost pointless which brings me to the minmatar.the minmatar are the biggest mutt's in eve. they don't know if they are shield tanking, armor tanking, hull tanking, speed tanking, or missile whoring. they certainly are not sniping because arty couldn't fall out of orbit and hit the celestial body pulling it much less function respectably as a weapon system. autocannons are decent and very much depend on the ship they are on rather than being a premier weapon system. the problems with minmatar guns are compounded by a very small clip size think about what happens when there is lag  and the rate of fire that is uncharacteristic in the face of modern weapon systems. the 16\"/50 mark 7 406mm  could be hand loaded every 30 seconds by hand and thousands of years into the future we have only cut that time in half? thats the 16 inch guns off of the battleship missouri which was made over 60 years ago for crying out loud!!! as another poster pointed out they supposedly developed webbers so that they can hit stuff but how does that help when a web range is so short? how likely is it that rather than just put a faster tracking system into the design priority you would instead develop an energy based weapon system of little relative functionality that defies the laws of physics in slowing down its target but not actually effecting how much thrust the engines are producing but somehow effecting the mass of the object without developing the opposite of this system that effectively makes your ships have zero mass and therefore zip around at any speed you like? why would it not be more likely that a race that has really slow ships that have tons of armor and specializes in energy weapons would be the ones to develop a weapon system that slows the target down seeing as though they would never catch the target if it tried to run away without webbers? ok, reality aside, webbers are a poor excuse for poorly executed design so they added target painters as another form of minmatar support. that doesn't work either. signature radius is a joke. i could throw 3 shield rigs on my rohk, with 5 large shield extenders, and a mwd and still see very little additional damage due to my signature radius being the size of a small planet. i suspect its because if sig radius worked like it should arty would never hit anything, much less something that moved.amarr should be the slowest, toughest, have the slowest tracking guns, and rely on webbers to slow down targets.the gallante should be slow, tough, primarily use railguns with range bonuss, drones, and tracking disruptors.the caldari should be fast, weak, primarily use short range weapons with damage bonuss, and ecm or sensor dampeners preferred .the minmatar should be fastest, weakest, have the hardest hitting short range guns with the best tracking because they are simple, they should rely on ecm to suppress their targets because if they are targeted they are webbed and screwed.imho."
"coo"
"ba-bump"
"third thread about this in as many weeks. we should merge them to get an accurate count of the votes. :thumbsup: of course."
"logging to avoid getting blown up is lame, doesn't matter whether its lowsec, 0.0 or war targets. as long as the system doesn't compromise the ability of a non-flagged target that is not in imminent danger to exit the game, i am in favor of eliminating this issue."
"you diminish the strength of any arguments you make by framing this topic in a racist manner"
"having run into this myself  1 wt abaddon, 1 neutral domi smacktalking and repping... and loosing drones when i attempted to jam his double eccm fitting, then having 2 guardians show up and join in repping the abaddon  i am entirely for puttinging some real smackdown on neutrals getting involved in wars.i'm for this:neutral reps my wt... he immediately becomes a wt for the duration of the war. not his corp  they're free to support him if my corp attacks him, with the same result , just the neutral.or get concord involved just like they do now if you rep an npc. and give the guy a sec hit. not as bad as suicide ganking, but a definate downward adjustment.currently it is used in empire wars like drones are... all the bloody time."
"repping someone that has a 60 second no jump/dock timer running should result in a 60 second no jump/dock timer. this should be classed as an exploit untill it's fixed properly."
"i already brought this up in iceland and the devs agreed that it was pretty stupid, so it'll probably get fixed sooner or later. here's a thumbs up for you anyway."
"yep... it's a hopelessly broken loot table.such as dark blood ships salvaging for t1 salvage parts."
"whilst i completely disagree with the op, from the stats they look awesome, something needs looking into here.the components can be collected slowly with a great deal of effort, but the 'augmented' bpcs are just stupidly rare. looking through contracts, bpcs and built drones, i found a total of 5 'augmented' hammerheads at 300mil. no others were available."
"they need to be made much more common and overall the drones should be notably better than their t2 counterparts. these things should be the navy/faction equivalent of drones, not the equivalent of officer loot that isn't any better than t2."
"yes the components are a bit easier then most think to get.the bpc's on the other hand are like finding hens teeth. after 50+ sites i have found one  1  augmented hobgoblin bpc to date. i have dozens upon dozens of integrated but only that one aug.but stop and think about it.if they ever introduce the upgraded drone modules or the drone implants they are working on then these drones need to be rare because they would quickly become overpowered.personally i am just glad to know there are augmented hammerheads to find as i was worried that the hobgoblins were the only ones available.also, gal navy drones are logical and it is kinda stupid they dont exist in the lp store of the drone using race.but i dont think the augmented need removed.so didnt support."
"as i started in another thread...t2 ammo is worse than stupidly cheap faction ammo  big money maker these days, faction cruise .i don't care if the t2 ammo is great or sucks for itself, i'd just like to have the idiot drawbacks discarded entirely so that t2 actually has some use value."
"/agreedshort range t2 ammunition is just useless and badly designed, compared to navy ammo."
"thisblazing fire ceo interstellar operations incorporated corp web site services [service] killboard hosting [service] forum hosting [service] web site hosting [service] alliance creation"
"ambulation is a schtic anyway... not even relevant or necessary in the game at all.it's just going to become secondlife in station  tm , which is a majorly bad move."
"hells yea"
"the long-range t2 ammos seem fine - null and spike both give you greatly added ability to engage at ranges longer than their respective weapons can usually muster, with tracking as their only penalty. that's perfectly acceptable. javelin is interesting - railguns going into blaster mode, albeit with worse-than-railgun tracking - but the speed penalty is absolutely horrifying. a full rack of javelin will cut your hyperion's speed by 57%. void is nice to look at, and good for people on a real budget being about 1/4 the price of cn am , but it's only combat-effective against a well-tackled target, which one cannot safely assume. tracking penalties on long-range ammos are one thing, tracking penalties on short-range ammos are another thing entirely. and the cap recharge penalty on hail, while less bad than it could be in most pvp situations. is still a huge kick to the teeth. narmio's ideas seem reasonable. make javelin a tracking ammo, with lead damage at antimatter range. i'm not sure about void - the \"dps your face\" aspect appeals to me greatly - but it needs something other than an infinitesimal dps boost at the cost of significant penalties. you can do damage-shifting, you can do a low-sig ammo, or you can just make it a noticeable dps boost though that last would probably be unbalanced , but the current state of it is just not right. also, for hail and quake specifically, change the cap recharge penalty to making the guns just use cap. it's not like the game mechanics to allow it don't exist."
"the bonuses should equal the nerfs.in the above examle where void reduced speed by 57%, then it's damage should be increased likewise  or damage & rof, lower cap use, whatever  should equal out to be a 57% advantage.javelin/precision missiles should not have their range halved to keep their increased flight time/velocity from letting them go further than their t1 counterparts. that's just stupid, and then stacking on a velocity penalty to boot.one thing that has always irked me about eve is that penalties are always 10x more extreme than benefits.the limitations on t2 ammo is illogical as well, as t2 modules don't have penalties  slightly higher fitting reqs & skills, at most , and t2 ships don't have penalties, why should t2 ammo???one of a long line of idiotic ccp decisions."
"this./agree"
"t2 long range ammo are finet2 short range ammo are crap"
"who cares if the ammo is 'good' or 'sucks', just remove/reduce the doggone stacked nerfs when loading a full rack of the stuff."
"remove polycarbs, add a stacking penalty for speeds mods, increase mass and decrease agility of all heavy assault ships."
"a balance to nanos would be a cap on speed by ship that gets more difficult to attain the closer one gets to it.say... 6km/s for inties, 3 for cruisers, 1.5 for bs. this will enable them to travel fast, and even escape, but give everyone a decent chance of catching fast ships.reduce the bonuses on snakes.but don't reduce it so far that everyone ends up doing just the opposite and sitting there in super slow tanks that just sit there and slug it out."
"just add an extra attribute called structural integrity or inertia stabilizers  yeah same name as modules . this attribute would decrease your agility and some mwd speed if your ship has too low mass and too high speed, thus preventing the ship from tearing itself apart at high speeds.installing extra inertia stabilizers would restore some agility and speed, but nowhere near whats it like today.this will effectively serve as polycarb nerf while not really nerfing them so ships can still use them provided they don't reach their integrity limit. this will also give ccp a chance to really adjust ship speeds as they intend and dynamically adjust it further if necessary.speed issue needs a little more complex solution then just nerfing few modules and ships. it needs a permanent and satisfactory solution. cookie cutter approaches  like nano buff  creates more problems."
"caldari have no bonus's for dronesusing ur logic, i wld be saying that the mega has missile launchers and is therefore a missile boat, i never said that.i said that gallente have some missile boats, why cant caldari have a non-bonused semi-decent sub-cap ship that can field at least four heavies/sentriesi mean damn its not like im trying to make caldari the omgraceofdoom im just asking for a small change wtf why are ppl so frigid"
"you make it sound like im asking for the scorp to get 1079866% dmg bonus to drones, missiles, ecm or something.im not, im simply suggesting it be able to field at least 4 heavies/sentries why do u think thats so evil? scorp is least use caldari bs atm, this may help it a bit..adv spaceship command is equally useless for all races, yet from carrier training all the other races benefit more from the drone support skills that make it a good option to use heavies/sentries effectively on their sub-cap ships, while caldari miss out."
"this.i wld not give two hoots about drones if i didnt have to train carriers  sure i dont have to, but the alternative is a rarely-used dread lol, and capital ships are v important in eve so its good to be able to use them  , caldari shld get an alternative for capitals like with their bs, tho this cld be pretty extreme and the other races wld need another cap as well so im not sure about that one, id'ing the niche for them cld also be hard.."
"people make us out to be terrible or something.we are actually quite nice people, and we have fun in corp chat.remember:it's just a game."
"hi circyc,as a new player myself, having only just reached 1mil sp today, i can in some ways relate to your arguments, but i believe the essential problem here is a question of mentality; specifically the mindset of a new player when approaching the eve mmo concept and build as a whole. i will digress a little and get to that a little further if you don't mind indulging me.straight off the bat, this game is not easy. it's not hard, but its not easy. tutorial is definitely helpful, and it covers the essentials. the rest comes from experience, the rookie channel and a little further, from the corp mates you make, as well as non corp buddies you meet and befriend along the way. it is clear from the get go the emphasis is on you- no silly npc ships with glowing green question marks above their head, no stupid quests to get \"x\" amount of \"y item\" to create \"z anime scenario\" for +100% xp gain.self reliance is the name of the game. adapt, struggle, push, learn and enjoy. eve solves the endless problem of \"lack of endgame content\" by being without a endgame scenario. people have been playing for years and i've yet to see even a percentage claim that they have reached \"the end\" and have nothing left to do.i referred to mentality earlier. no mmo should cater to every single potential player and personality type in my opinion. eve caters to a specific type, and does so exceedingly well. this game requires an inquiry and persistant mentality, a personality who appreciated and, dare i say, demands that not everything is handed to you on a gold plate, but rather wants to earn through time and effort the appropiate rewards.there are no shortcuts in this game. consider even the isk economy. it doesnt matter that a new player on day 1 could purchase a billion isk from some farming website. what are they gonna do with it except have access to only what they learnt to have access to? i appreciate this game is not for everyone. and yes, it can scare away those looking for a simple challenge. but not all of us are here for an easy and short ride to power and some half baked status easily acquired. eve is not a mmorpg.its a simulation, an enviroment, modelled in fiction but paralled in build with a reality close to rl.i dont want an easy ride. i want a challenge. i want to earn my status and reputation in this simulation by effort, perseverance and intent. this game reserves that simple quality which has so escaped so much of the online content:the satisfaction of accomplishment.i hope you stay ciryc, and anyone else who has been challenged by this game. i thank you for at least having the patience to read through this, if you did, and will go off and struggle some more in game, loving every second of it. i hope you will join me there mate."
"industrial salvager ... meh. would be slow as heck unless it also comes equipped with lows and mediums enough to part-convert it into a nano-industrial. personally i'm happy cleaning as i go with my mega  or kronos, should i ever be bothered to buy one  and using a salvage-fitted destroyer to mop up anything too far away for my bs to crawl within tractor range."
"csm-let your voice be heard......selectively.how dare anyone question the status quo?"
"of course it's selective, do you want monster-trucks in eve? but that doesn't mean we i assume this is true for other csm members, why else would they be on the csm  actually do not read threads. and do we care? at least i do. i even go as far as talking to people i know, about certain issues. the vocal minority is mostly presented on these forums. csm also needs to talk to the silent majority.i would suggest you to actually go and read the assembly hall. it's all about questioning the status quo. i have suggested several ideas which will fundamentally change the way eve works. jade has also challenged the status quo by suggesting destructible outposts.so you are once again making up silly things."
"lv- don't you mean the silent majority?take care,arithron"
"yes, you are right."
"what kind of question is that? uhh, yes!"
"yee.signed and bumped"
"/+1"
"implement asap. /signed."
"love it."
"sorry if i formatted the title on this incorrectly, i was so eager to post it after i spent an hour making it.[issue] lp store offers need cost balancingmaybe [balance] if a tag like that exists."
"iv is to low"
"i'm not sure i care too much about reducing the jump lcone time, i mean year 24 hours is a bit unfair but there should be some penalty for crossing time and space ;  i would however like to see more clones, i don' have enough as it is to fill with different implant sets for different roles."
"yes to skillbut rank 8... yes 8!!! charisma ftw..."
"aye"
"supported, my alt needs one...."
"an invention time bonus would be next to useless, i certainly would not have paid for the implant for my alt if that was the bonus.its been over a year now, can we please have this implant working as originally intended. that's what i paid for"
"yes, yes, and yes.btw i support this."
"even though they shot it down i say we keep signing it anyways! yarr!"
"balance, balance balance.the station campers know where to go, those undocking are blind sitting ducks.allow those undocking a choice of direction."
"that's where you're wrong, it's the highest priority, docking games are zapping people of their will to pvp."
"resistance-boosting implants for drones would be cool  add a skill for that too, like 2%/level. "
"more like a [miner] issue!"
"medium and heavy mining drones are long overdue imo. i think retooling the procurer with 1 laser turret to get drones bonuses would make it worth something. the t2 version could even lose its strip miner and get a bigger bay and 50%/level drone mining bonus.  remember kids a 250% bonus to 5 heavy mining mining drones would still have to compete with a hulk using 3 strip miners as well and the medium drones. "
"it could use a boost, but it does serve a purpose.many have a couple days to go from it to a retriever, so they use it. versus spending those 4 days training up to use a cruiser... and then spending another 4 days getting up to a retrievera good example is those going mini engineer and working into barges. they feel the training is better spent on the barge related skills vs adding in the frigate and cruiser skills  they still go for a bit into industrials, but focus on the mining barge really "
"aye. this ship needs a good look."
"id like to see it get a role bonus to say mining veld amount then it would serve a reason maybe even make it mine more veld than a cov with barge 5 and for the love of got gie it some cap and maybe even 15m3 drone bay to help kill the high sec belt rats"
"again... why would anyone design an entire type of ship... to mine a single flavor of ore?mercoxit i can ~almost~ understand, with the explosion or whatever. but again, it's not hard at all for a hulk to sit outside that blast radius and mine like mad. and saying \"this ship can do it faster\" makes no sense, when the hulk as 3 strips and the procurer/skiff has 1.so whether it's mercoxit, or veldspar... why would o.r.e. make a ship just to mine that? when they could design larger forms of mining drones, and make a ship that specializes in those.then that sad little lonely ship will actually see some use."
"the trick is the skiff's bonus to mercoxit mining yield, much like the mack's to icea tricked out hulk is 82 units and hour vs the skiff's 1640 /hr  quoting from the miner's guide "
"which is all fine and well... but what's the point? how is mercoxit the single most valuable mineral in all the universe, that o.r.e. would design a ship to collect such massive amounts. i could understand if mercoxit were the fuel that powered every capacitor... but it's not. i'm pretty sure it's just another ore, to make another mineral, to make something else. mostly a handful of t2 modules, and some faction ammo.unless i'm missing something here, then i think it's a waste of a ship and the training to operate it, when it's only good for a very specific purpose."
"current price is 12k per, and you get 2 unit per unit of ore. so it is one of the rarest minerals"
"merc is needed for every t2 item. it's that mineral.t1 item + random stuff + mercoxit = t2."
"and veld is the most common and needed ore why not make a ship that starting miners can mine in and it would have a purpose in any mining fleet.in its current state a mining cruiser is better and a ret can mine more ice in what 2 days of training. so veld or even veld and scord  non region spec. ore  can be mined faster but with no tank and has to jet mine. then it would have a purpose for all miners to have one."
"not everyone trains for cruiser though, so it is a big boost from a frigate.but yeah it needs tweaking, tank wise at least  all the barges and most of the exhumers do "
"awesome idea. i think it will greatly stimulate new eden's economy and trade. more stuff can be moved around without endless little hauls with no margins to give away to the hauler; or move stuff with one large haul with risk and lack of frequency.idea to the ingame specs:- some slots to configure it  not too many to keep the defined role apparent . - perhaps enough to fit a warpcore stab.- must be able to hold a base of one freighter cargo container  120k m3's - keep the price around 100-150 mio so the investment will be in line with the ability to use it in low-sec also. if you make it too expensive people wont take it in low-sec wich could use some more good logistics.rb"
"we already have ships for this. about the only thing that will stop them is a ewar boosted heavy dicter."
"and to stimulate more low-sec travel it would be good that it has less effect to webbing it with more skills on the one that pilots the super-industrial."
"please please please don't allow these things to load/unload in space except at a pos!!! you'll see macro mobs with them everywhere towing in entire belts!i would like to see them have a few utility slots & bonuses to fitting logistic modules  range only on energy x-fer, no quantity boost  to support their own escort fleet, with built in warp core strength modified by pilot skill  2 points per level  and commedable tanks."
"yes, look at freighters. give them some mid/low slots so the stupid things can fit stuff to affect their cargo or speed or whatever.just increase the size of repackaged capitals by a factor of 10 and they still won't fit in a super uber expanded freighter of suicidally large tasty cargo."
"agreed.hauling ore during ming can be done fine with industrials, and the roqual was already added to make mining ops better. this new ship should be directed at moving stuffz around through gates at longer distances not the short distances that can be covered by industrials."
"removing the sandbox element from eve? you seem intent on turning this into wow in space...gtfo."
"fixing an issue does not always mean removing it... it means \"fixing\" it..."
"suicide ganking doesnt need to be fixed. the fact that people think theyre safe flying 50b worth of stuff in an unescorted, autopiloted freighter is a smart idea, thats the real issue that needs to be addressed. and it is, in the form of suicide ganking."
"man the longboat"
"needs to be honestly. where is the organic stuff in eve...sure they are going for more real than fantasy... but don't you guys remember that cool episode of star trek? i could supend my disblief for that."
"do want!"
"ccp will never implement this, they're not high fantasy muptards.then again they did give us the oompa loompas."
"yep"
"/signed"
"external voice + im program for alliance / corp chat, or any other chan youre suscribing. some sort of comm programme to do all that crap including sending and receiving mails i.e sfw.....i have no real life do i? ****!p.s. drop the length restriction on mails and implement some sort of tree structure for the replies on mails. - mail  - reply  +  alli mail so organized, me horny."
"spending development resources on things that already exist outside of game, and do it better, does not get my vote."
"you've got my support a hundred times over on this one, mate!the way you could make sure people outside eve don't abuse it would be that you had to start it in-game, and when you join the audio on a channel, the external client starts up, but from then-on it's seperate from the eve client."
"qft.i'm a carebear mission runner - i only play for an hour or two a day tops which is mostly spent running level 3 missions for lp  i find they can be turned around for lp faster than 4s - if i was missioning for isk though, 4s would be the way to go . if missions are nerfed or i am forced to move into low sec to get them, eve will have lost a subscriber  and i'd leave my stuff to my corp so no, you can't have it .and i'm sorry ki an for proving your point, but ... i like the game mechanics, but don't like pvp and am bored to tears by mining and industry, so missions are about all there is left to keep me in the game, and if that goes, i'm not so wealthy i would continue to support ccp : "
"if you are only doing missions 1 hr a day  especially if you do lvl 3's  you are unlikely to feel much impact of this limitation other than perhaps getting better value for your lp."
"fao: esmenetwhat drugs were you taking when you proposed this? it's completely ridiculous.i would like to know what lunacy drove you to consider mission runners get life easy.look at the facts..a mission runner can earn 20m an hour on a good day, a ratter can earn 60m per hour on a bad day. on top of this, the ratter can come across faction loot and officer spawns with potential to increase profitability from millions to billions for little to no effort, the mission runner gets no such boost. sure a misison runner can use the lp store, but it pales in comparison.granted there may be some difficulty transporting valuable items from low sec to high sec to cash in on the value of loot, but it's the mission runner who probably ends up buying that loot anyway to get an minimal improvement to their ship in the vein hope it would boost their performance to increase their isk/hour. it does work, you get about an extra 1m isk/hour for every billion spent, it's downright pathetic, while the ratter can fly around in dirt cheap ships and not give a crap.then you've got the added problems of actually having and using faction gear. as bling as it may be, you get the *******s who would rather suicide gank you  with no financial loss to themselves if they fail due to platinum insurance paying more than a raven costs these days  and take your gear in less than a minute and sell it to another mission runner, or in the worst case right back to you. as a ratter chances are you're going to be ratting within friendly space anyway with yo, which is going to alleviate a lot of the risks.i mean sure maybe a ratter may have to look over their shoulder in case they get attacked and keep one eye on the system scanner, but at the end of the day most ratting ships are practically worthless, the ratters get so much more isk so much more quickly and they're much more able to afford a replacement. a blinged up mission runner working for peanuts can end up bankrupt.then again if anything having to look over your shoulder adds to the fun. do you have any idea how much mission running 16 hours a day for 1/3rd of the money a ratter gets sucks? it's so repetitive and boring, i'd be greatlful of an enemy to keep me entertained.then there is lag. ratters may get to experience this when they participate in fleet, but floating around what is most likely an empty system populated by yourself and the rat in your pocket you've never experienced the horror of what a decent quality agent can bring. if the ratter experiences overcrowding, you can just **** off next door, but the mission runner has very little options but to go to a mission hub to earn top dollar, but because every other bugger ends up their too it ends up worse than jita with a fraction of the players, making the missions difficult if nigh-on impossible to run.misison hubs also attract scum. griefing can be fun, but when mission running is 100% of your income and some muppet with a 2 week old alt probes you down and steals all your loot you can end up with **** all for your troubles.you can argue well don't fly what you can't afford to lose, but when a mission runner can't afford half as much as a ratter because the payouts are so crappy, what are we supposed to do? join the fellow man and rat in 0.0? wouldn't that defeat the whole purpose of the missions? also it's not as simple as it sounds to get out there and join you - the bigger bodies will not want you due to lack of skillpoints on in game experience and you won't want to join the smaller bodies because they're usually noobs who will add you to their ranks to become a name on their list and not someone with qualities you can bring.to top it all off, rats are an equally infinite resource? did this not occur to you in your nerf everything so it's finite rant? if anything should ne nerfed, it's the ratter. if anything should be buffed, it's the mission payouts rewards and the laggy hubs..."
"legit, where do you get 60 mil an hour. what are you smoking?! first of all to get that up to the point where you are getting trip 1.8mil rats you need to find a trues sec system. and then you have to work them off by killing off the crappy spawns just to get to that level. then you chain them. it takes about 15 minutes for each one to re spawn once you chain them. it might take up to an hour before the crappy spawn is replaced by a better one and then its not guaranteed you will get a better one! so it may take you 4 hours just to get it to that point. that's if you are not dodging every neut that pops in the system. and every gank squad will look on the frigging map and hunt ratters in the best systems. and as far as missions, i used to hit 30+ mil an hour right out of balginia. so get you facts straight. no spawning no chaining and i did not have to worry about someone ganking me in my mission because after three or 4 hours my raven was paid off. i had a short and relatively safe route to a market hub."
"1  so eve should abandon its own design because people want to \"do what they wish to do\"? for every person who leaves because they don't get a ****ton of risk-free isk, you'll get 3 who join/stay because of the improved gameplay.2  he said per agent. each corp has a lot of agents, translating into a lot of potential missions per day. 3  so how do miners afford stuff? just because they're not getting a huge amount of isk for riskless work doesn't suddenly mean they're going to be dirt poor.4  read above, that's bull****. besides, they wouldn't get isk from them anyway since they sit in hisec.5  alliances have no issues making isk, just because missionrunners make a little bit less isk doesn't mean that everyone is going to stop buying deadspace modules.6  if someone was willing to buy isk anyway, do you think they're actually going to chain missions day after day? you know, there was a time when missions weren't as profitable as they are now. the economy then did just fine. i don't agree with all the suggestions exactly as in the op, but something kind of like that needs to be done. i'd say remove agent quality or add in dynamic quality based on number of missions taken to spread out missionrunners more. remove bounties and severely nerf loot, but increase the isk/lp rewards. solves a lot of problems1  eliminates laggy mission hubs2  mission runners aren't the primary source of minerals, miners have their role back3  mission running is now a bit more unique and interesting since lp offers are more important."
"mission running & rewards have been nerfed and rebalanced and nerfed and rebalanced ad nauseum since exodus release.it works, as is, though the lp 'goods' are far, far, far too pricey for what they provide compared to even low-end faction stuff.balance the lp rewards to be in line with other faction goods but otherwise leave missions well enough alone."
"to be completely frank, if this change were to go through i would quit. i don't mean this as an 'emo-ragequit' type of thing, but just as the simple truth. i really don't have that much time to play anymore, what with work and a class that i am taking, but with what little time i do have to play, i like to run missions. i have been training into mining in the hope of being able to play more often since you barely have to pay attention, but that is a ways off. because of my limited playtime, most corps would boot me if i applied due to inactivity, and i would most certainly be unwelcome in 0.0 corps who rely on active players to maintain their space and keep operations running smoothly. many of the people who frequent the missions channel in game have similar situations, real life preventing them from taking up more active roles in game, but they are happy enough if they can run missions. running missions in low sec is sort of a farce, i know how easy it is to track mission-runners down and how easy it is to blow up a mission runner who is set up for pve.  i have an alt who is adept at probing people down, which i have let expire recently due to lack of free-time to play. i've always enjoyed the pve parts of massively multiplayer online games, and i would be disappointed if missions were 'nerfed' into being wastes of time. but to be perfectly frank, i probably shouldn't be paying 15 bucks a month to be able to mission on weekends anyhow, it would probably give me a good reason to quit.one request, if you do succeed in this endeavor, remove belt rats as well. its only fair, as you can 'farm' rats all day in a dead end 0.0 system, usually without seeing another soul out there in space at all. and whats more, there are the chance for hauler spawns, faction spawns, and officer spawns. in my limited time in 0.0, i would do this all day instead of missioning, and it was just about as profitable, often more so if i got lucky. and most of the time i would be completely by myself, alone in the system. might as well remove all those pesky isk-faucets, eh?<U+518D><U+89C1>"
"what part of this thread said \"haha lets make missions useless\"?"
"well, perhaps not to that extreme, but when i see a message that says:\"- limit the number of missions you can get pr day. for instance 1 mission pr agent in high sec, 5 missions pr day in low sec and 10 in 0.0.- nerf mission bounties from high sec missions perhaps half of what it is today . remove some  all?  loot.- give each agent a limited total nr of missions he can give out pr day or pr hour.\"hmmm... lets say my favorite agent gives me duo of death. since there is  potentially  no loot and bounties are halved, i'll get what, like 2 million isk? yay. there goes my mission with the agent where i have all my stuff. if i want to mission again, i'll have to fly who knows how many jumps, all my different setups/ammo in my hold, to another crappier agent. that is, if i can even get a mission, because if they give out limited amounts of missions per day, i might not get to play at all unless i log on after downtime. yes, that would be extremely convenient for me, considering my playtime is already limited. lately the system where i mission has about 75+ people in it, had only about 30 when i first got there. hope there would be enough missions for that many people.granted this is looking at it in a rather negative light, but at the moment i can't see this as a boon to more casual players such as myself. but like i said, i am pretty apathetic about the game lately, so it would just give me a good reason to kick the habit. just do me a favor and get rid of those isk faucet 0.0 belt rats and special spawns like i asked while you nerf missions if you are truly serious about fixing 'risk v. reward' and isk faucets ruining the game."
"this has to be the best mission running renovation idea i've read so far. it'd reward clever players and automagically balance agents based on the risk and location. it'd also neatly incorporate the pvp/supply&demand aspect to the system, making mission running more in line with the rest of eve; what kind of an agent would pay premium anyway when there's 200 pilots available. as for the arguments about ratting being more profitable than missionrunning, lots of people seem to  purposefully?  use kinda skewed numbers. say, <20m/h for a mission runner indicates t2 fit at best and/or a lazy/lowskill pilot, maybe suboptimal ship etc. as an example i know for a fact that i do 20-40m/h not including lp, in a t2 typhoon, which is generally regarded as a suboptimal ship. on the other hand 60m/h for ratting indicates you're doing it alone in a system with enough belts and close to best true sec. those conditions aren't quite as easy to meet in a lot of 0.0, in fact there's complete regions where this is totally impossible due to true sec. in any case, ratting is a limited resource where you compete with other players, firstly by securing the space so you can rat at all, and secondly only a limited amount of players can rat in that space without affecting each others' income. changing missions in a way described above would make them follow the same design, and probably only increase the profits of a clever player."
"the difference between missions and belt rats is that belt rats are a limited resource, so their profitability is sort of self-regulating and the pvp aspect is always present, even in hi-sec.another thing to consider is that a change to mission mechanics doesn't necessarily have to translate into a nerf, a dynamic system like described in one of the posts on the first page could actually reward smart players, while distributing the load more evenly across the whole of eve and somewhat addressing the risk/reward issues concerning lowsec."
"i agree with the concept of agent quality being dynamic, with agents only having a limited number of missions available. in busier systems, agents should end up telling people, \"sorry, i have no work available for you right now.\"i agree with the idea of removing unnamed t1 drops from npcs. please let npcs only drop stuff worth picking up, if they drop anything. most of the unnamed t1 stuff just ends up being reprocessed anyway - this hurts me as a miner  mission-runners generating so many minerals , and hurts me as a mission-runner  having so much junk to carry back to base while looting/salvaging ."
"my specific suggestions are not so important. the main idea is to introduce some sort of competition to mission running similar to all other professions. this is done by making missions a limited supply in some form. and in addition scale the profitability with the systems security rating."
"if you guys really are hell-bent on introducing competition for missions, perhaps consider removing agents entirely.\"cut out the middleman\" is an old clich<U+FFFD> and there's no reason not to apply it here as well. rather than forcing folks to huddle around specific stations maybe give each corporation one big \"mission board\" which constantly spawns new missions. the board - like everything else - should have range restricted to region. players can only take one mission at a time  with perhaps a trainable skill allowing you to increase that number . to reduce exploitation of this skill, there should be severe  standings?  penalties for failing a mission, proportional to the number you have open currently. standings would still have to limit the quality of a mission available to a player.mission board might be something like this:mission name | level | system located | reward | lp rewardideally, there would be a constant supply of  randomly spawning  missions of each level so people would always have something to do. the advantage of this system  as i see it  is that isk grinders will have the option of flitting between different corporations searching for the best missions while lp grinders would be forced to stick with their chosen corp. hmm, that gives lp grinders a raw deal but that should push up the lp rewards prices - which people want, yes?since there are no agents, there are no huddlings of players* in certain systems; missions would appear at random points on the map meaning everyone would be more evenly distributed. it also makes looting more  in the sense of less  interesting since you have to trundle back home to fetch your looting ship then fly all the way back again. some players might not bother if the time taken is too long. this reduces salvage and thus  potentially  makes miners the primary resource providers again. another advantage of removing agents is that i'll no longer have to deal with people who sound like their rectal implants are malfunctioning. *i would like to point out that removing these missioning hubs might hurt some traders, particularly those who are able to sell items at a premium in those hubs because missioners are too damn bone idle to pick things up far away for a few million less. if i'm being forced to move around, this won't bother me too much; i just thought i'd point it out.have i missed the point of this thread entirely?"
"i have to say that this is an attrocious idea. big thumbs down as the idea simply suggests reducing one player groups income  which they have trained for . you also in the process damage a lot of social skills that players have trained.risk vs. reward is currently unbalanced, but the solution is increase the rewards in null and low-sec, not decrease the rewards in high-sec as this heavily punishes the casual gamers  such as myself  and rewards more hard core players.i would like to point out that casual does not mean 1hr per night, but also includes one 4 hour session per week. i often log on for four hours at the weekend, earn my isk mission running and then have enough to do fun stuff during the rest of the week if i log on, or have enough that next weekend i don't have to."
"op sounds like someone who rats in 0.0 and thinks he is superior to high sec mission runner.most high sec mission runner use isk to fund their pvp. without this isk, most casulal pvpers will leave. the true carebears are in 0.0 ratting in cloaking ravens.cloak ratting in 0.0 should be nerfed as its almost impossible to die. thats the real curse in eve today, not high sec missions. low sec missions are about as useful as pilgrims.also, low sec missions need to be boosted since people wont bother with low sec missions since its easy to get your amarr bs ganked by 6 minmatar mothership hotdrop on a gate. players would love low sec more if it wasent such a waste of time.repeating point again - the carebear is the 0.0 ratter. ratting needs to be nerfed, not missions."
"stop taking drugs so you will not have visions.your whole idea is \"people should play as i like\". wrong, people should play as they like. in eve you are fully entitled to try to block other players to play as they like, but through in game systems, not asking to change the game to favour your play stile and remove other people play stile."
"i wish this was true. the problem is that, depending on the issue at hand, i have heard either version of this argument  f.ex, when it comes to nerfing a pvp activity, carebears claim that all people in empire are carebears and that they outnumber the pvpers in the game, and when it comes to nerfing a pve activity, suddenly these same people are actually pvpers just trying to sc**** isk together to go pvp .not this again... very few will leave and to those that do, good riddance!yes, they are also a problem, and deserve their own thread.boost low sec missions, nerf high sec missions. nerf 0.0 ratting too for all i care, but keep that to another thread.yes, a boost of low sec is in order.both can be carebears and both needs a nerf."
"sort of like the carebear call to nerf suicide ganks then?"
"australian players would love you, and all those that play in the last hours before dt  half of the us too? . \"sorry west coast player, the european/est coast players have already depleted my mission for today, but you can go to agent xy, it is only 20 jumps and he is a 4 -18\"that beside the uneven distributions of agents between the empires  caldari alone have more level 4 kill missions agents than gallente and minmatar together ."
"you have noticed some real decrease in suicide ganking in the last years? i have seen an increase. and yes, barring the stupid part where suicide ganking cost almost 0 isk thank to insurance there is no need to nerf it. and the insurance part is more a problem of the insurance itself and current ship prices than of the suicide ganking."
"what has this got to do with anything? i simply asked if you by saying that you shouldn't call for nerfs in a playstyle just because it's different than yours applied as well to carebears calling for nerfs of suicide ganking.so i take it you are against that nerf then?"
"let's be honest here. a ratter in a bad system can get 20 millions/hour in isk  so immediately available  using a bc, has a decent chance of a faction spawn each day for another probable 50-100 millions in faction gear  so practically doubling his income . a ratter in a very good system can get up to 50 millions/hour and several faction spawns every day. a mission runner get 20 million isk/hour from rewards and choice loot/salvage, using the best agents, in the best systems, using a pimped up bs worth over half billion, and run a decent risk to be ganked. if he go owerblown with the ship  2+ billions , accept only specific missions and keep them open to farm them, he can get maybe 30 millions/hours."
"what you are forgetting here, which is sort of the point of this entire topic, is that ratting in 0.0 is a limited resource. sure, the potential income of a 0.0 ratter is much higher than a high sec mission runner, but we're talking realities here. 0.0 systems, especially those with good true sec, are often overrun by other ratters trying to make a living. a 0.0 ratter always has to look out for hostiles, and even if he has a cloak, he still can't rat while those hostiles are present.the high sec mission runner never has to worry about if other people are doing missions, or if hostiles are in the system, provided he's not at war. sure, ninja looters might come in and spoil some of his income, but all he has to do is finish the mission and turn it in. he'll still get payed from bounties and rewards. then he can fetch another mission and go at it again. there's no end to it.this is what is imbalanced about this whole thing."
"that competion is already there, in the form of selling your product, wether they're lp items, minarels, or loot.the profitability is already scaled, even tought the scaling should be a bit more accentuated.as for your idea of somehow limiting the number of missions per day, it could easily be bypassed by using alts to accept missions, or cycling different agents.and just what do you think your little brainstorming will do to factions ships and officier mods, marauders and +5 implants? there is a demand for those things because there is a place where they have a decent life expectancy, so long that the pilot using them isn't stupid.you think a large part of the high-sec population will go in low-sec if they can't do missions in high-sec? stop deluding yourself, most of those players just don't want the risk of pvp, and nerfing them won't change their mind.mission-running in high-sec isn't completely safe, and you might to repeat it 10 times in your op, that doesn't make it true. you can still lose your ship to lag/desync, you can get wardecced, you can lose it against wreck salvagers or the like, you can get suicide-ganked. ratting in 0.0 isn't really more dangerous, as long as you keep an eye at the local and intel channels.ps: i find it funny that someone who isn't showing any corp/alliance tag should speak about bringing more players in 0.0 and playing with a group."
"generally well thought out idea.i like that kill missions require boss tags/dna to be returned to the agent. it also irritates me that agents can't be remotely contacted.so, alternatively:a  player contacts npc corp central hub via a general interface available through the corp infob  player than gets a random corp agent offering a jobc  player can accept/decline remotelye  accept/decline consequences still applythis would spread players out across missioning systems and refusing a lowsec mission means you can't ask for another for a while, as currently."
"visions like this scare me. there is a problem with risk vs reward in 0.0 so lets nerf missions in high sec. in an attempt to resolve one issue, there is a vast potential in causing many more.ccp as a money making corporation needs to generate income. as much as the hardcore rats try to make out, their's is not the only playstyle ccp needs to address. not every subscriber plays the game 6 hours a day, 7 days a week. some people have other things beside eve in their life and as a result are more the casual player.missions work well for the casual player. nerfing missions that a casual player, or any player not inclined to be a pvp rat, use to enjoy the game, does nothing to improve the plight of the 0.0 rats. instead of proposing a nerf that would impact a very large part of the casual market perhaps an increase in the reward in 0.0 would be better.nerfing missions has the potential of reducing the subscriber base, while not offering 0.0 rats any benefit. increasing 0.0 rewards would keep the casual player paying each month and possibly increase, or at least maintain subscriptions from 0.0 rats.the wining move is to change 0.0, not nerf high sec missions."
"well lookit dat! it's the 'subscriptions' argument again. \"won't someone think of the casual gamer?\"no! the casual gamer can go play wow."
"my 'facts' come through running missions 12-16 hours a day for weeks at a time since red moon rising ; "
"i totally disagree with the op.imo, the only thing that needs looking into is some form of load balancing to enable mission runners to spread out more, either by having a dynamic quality, or by removing quality entirely."
"what about highsec poss? kindof takes a crap load of time to grind your faction standings to 5+ when you get a storyline every 16 missions but only if they are with the same agent.anyone consider how long it takes to get jump clones under this proposal? yep, definately going to entice people to go into lowsec, 0.0 and pvp there. well lookit dat!!! it's the \"i'm elite and you are a turd\" argument again!!!one word which you should be familiar with, and the devs say constantly: sandboxoh, maybe my current siggie will help too....."
"maybe i didnt explain well enough but thats not the issue at all.its not a high sec vs low sec/0.0 post. its a missions versus any other means of making isk/minerals anywhere in space regardless of sec status."
"if people run their missions in low sec, i'd imagine it would take about the same time as today. the difference being, of course, that the people would actually have to work for their standings as opposed to grind for them. working in this case means organising a defensive effort to keep a system safe.omg teamworkin my sandbox the people with friends will push out the people without friends and stomp on their sand castle. the people without friends usually puts in effort to make friends, come back and stomp on my sand castle.some people, however, cries about it, takes their toys and goes home. guess which cathegory of people succeed in eve and which doesn't."
"sure give even more isk to the big alliance members which holding 0.0 space and can kill joucy rats even with lower risk than highsec missions. bigger bounty, faction drops, if ratting aligned amd within own space is 0 risk. i never lost a ship in 1 year in 0.0 ratting. just if i wasout to pvp"
"right..."
"my guess would be, because \"ratting is an equally infinite resource of isk\" is a load of *******s, as have already been explained in this thread. please take the time to read it."
"don't see how the quotes are in oposition to each other. if it's too hard reading between the lines, why don't we just add two words to the original sentence:\"its a high sec missions versus any other means of making isk/minerals anywhere in space regardless of sec status.\""
"exactly. it's not a nerf missions as she claims, it's again one of those 'nerf highsec' topics. you know, the ones you always show up in to show support.'moar meat in lowsec! cos us wants moar to gank and kill'no thanks."
"nice opening; the rest of the mail though is either unhonest or uninformed. ratter in a bad system doesn't get even close to 20millions/hour, because bad 0.0 systems got crap spawns and/or are overpopulated so you don't even get to keep the crap spawns for yourself. as for faction spawns, people tend to chain good spawns to maximize isk, and in my experience if you chain a spawn  ie don't completely wipe it out to get a new spawn , you don't get faction spawns. i haven't extensively tested this though, so i might be wrong. won't be alone though, if someone proves this is false. on the other hand if above is true, you either get top isk/hour or you get the chance to get faction spawns. 99% of faction spawns also drop crap, it's not that dg invu, hg implant or large tower bpc every time. this is where you go totally wrong, either you don't have a clue, you totally suck, or you're trying to bend the facts to suit your agenda. i personally do 20m-40m/hour  not including lp  in a t2 fit typhoon, a ship that is generally regarded as a suboptimal missioning ship, the agent i use isn't best possible either, and i only use one character too. considering my average is somewhere around your 30m/h figure not even counting lp profits, i'd assume someone using proper ship  golem, cnr, etc  with deepspace mods and who has perfected their routine can easily do double, especially if they use an alt to loot/salvage."
"i can then understand how you might overestimate the 'ratter on a bad day' by such a margin, if you've only done missioning.what i can't understand is how with that much experience you claim that a high-sec mission runner on a good day only gets 20m/hour. either you're blatantly lying or doing something horribly wrong, when a relative noob like me can consistently pull 50% more without even trying to optimize the process."
"if you use deadspace mods, you have just painted a big bull's eye on your hull, you're much more at risk than in 0.0. and you overestimate a lot the gain in efficiency. with full faction gear, maybe you'll earn 15 to 20% more.don't bring up the alt argument, because said alt could be used mining  30+ millions/hour in a good 0.0 system , and salvaging isn't exactly the same profession than mission-running.i fly a marauder with top skills, and i do the average 15-17 millions/hour in bounties, 5 millions/hour in rewards, about as much in loot/salvage, and maybe 12k lp/hour, let's say 8 millions from the lp. is that too much? i could do as much ratting in 0.0, for 20% of the investment..."
"@ ki an :perhaps you should suggest the following business model to ccp: \"casual players? f*** 'em!\"hopefully ccp won't agree."
"it's not really a secret that this thread is about nerfing high sec missions. the title is pretty clear on that. don't know why you treat it as some sort of hidden agenda you managed to dig up...and you don't know **** about me, so please stfu about that. focus on trying to come up with real arguments instead. you know, arguments? that you use in debates? ..."
"the business model \"stick to your vision and people will play\" is more along the line of what i am suggesting.if you wanna go ahead and propose your idea, i'm not gonna stand in your way."
"i think you homogenize 0.0 too much to be very accurate. difference in income in some secure alliance deep 0.0 and f.ex syndicate is huge. i'd be surprised if you can consistently come even close to your mission running income in syndicate, be it mining or ratting. as for your marauder income, it's lower than i expected, but then again i have absolutely no idea wether you're good or bad at what you do, ie do you represent some of the top iskmakers or just someone average, or even poor  for the skill/isk investment . my crude estimate was based mostly on the income i do and the obvious shortcomings my ship and setup has compared to a professional mission runners' tools, and the fact that i am by no means a 'professional mission runner' myself so there's possibly room for refinement in my tactics also. also, to clarify my position on the matter a bit, i'm not that big fan of the suggestions in op. i do realize however the fact that missions work differently from mining and ratting due to being available infinitely.the best idea in this thread so far was later on the first page. the one where agents would have a list of missions available, new ones added at set intervals  depending on sec, agent quality whatever , and the missions would increase in rewards until they were completed by someone. this would make missions work the same way as rat / roid spawns, ie they would become limited in the sense that new ones would appear only so often. it'd also somewhat auto-adjust the rewards based on how risky/desireable players would find doing missions for agent in whatever location, essentially spreading mission runners around and making agents in inconvenient locations give better rewards and add a pvp component in to the mix by a bidding contest  \"should i take this mission now, or try to wait for better rewards and risk someone else taking it\" .in short, less lag and more opportunities for a smart player to earn isk. doesn't necessarily have to even alter the average mission income one way or another  though lazy/stupid people would find they're doing less isk , it'd still be a lot better system than the current one."
"i get 20 millions hour in slightly negative systems, even with some other blue in the system. if the system is overcrowded i can always do 1, 2 or at worst 3 jumps and find a empty system. again, i get 20 million hours chaining only the very top spawns. in my experience respawning from 0 is faster than \"regrowth\" of a chained spawn and i get more chance at good spawns while the low quality spawns die very fast. and i get faction spawns with a acceptable frequency. low sec? and no, i doubt your \"suboptimal t2 thypoon\". as all minmatar ships it can choose it damage. if you want suboptimal try a mega against angels. it is possible that getting a lot of angels missions you get more than 20 millions/hours without pimping much your ship, thanks to the tritanium bars in salvage, but i would be curious to see the breakdown of your isk generation, how you count the time  it must include the time used to loot/salvage if you do that  and if you use multiple character  most people claiming to do 40 million/hours forgot that they are using a alt wingman, going to 20 millions hour per character .whoa, wild assumption here. you can ask leandro salazar. he is the guy doing that, and i don't think he get even close to 60 millions hour."
"hisec.the fact that using a mega against angels is even more suboptimal is irrelevant. you can't base balance decisions on the short bus kids  or perfectly sensible people whose goal just isn't maximizing isk gain  who insist on using wrong tools for the job. what i meant with \"suboptimal t2 typhoon\", is, that if i were to specialize in running missions, there is better tools available. a flaw that i instantly recognize is the somewhat low dps, with sentries and cruises somewhere near 450-500 dps  autocannons don't count since they're useless half the time . second is the somewhat weak tank, which while a non-issue when managing aggro properly, becomes an issue on certain missions due to drones forming half the dps and aggroing whole pockets. third one is that if you use sentries, you can't travel gates while killing stuff and if you use heavies, their actual dps often sucks due to travel times. for comparison, a pimped torp cnr can probably reach 900 dps, has more range than my sentries, doesn't have to worry about drone aggro and can shoot things while moving, for these reasons i assumed it'd be considerably more effective than my phoon. dunno how golem does with torps, but the ability to loot/salvage on the fly would definitely mean extra income, at least on those missions which i judge not worth looting/salvaging in dessy afterwards. i haven't tested the marauders myself so i'm not sure wether you'd get better isk/hour by salvaing what you can during the mission and skipping the dessy part on other missions also. someone who aims for max isk/hour will ensure that he gets the as much missions against his preferred faction as possible. for me with a skimpy armor tank ship, it's sansha, but someone flying the aforementioned torp raven would probaly prefer angel more due to trit bars and easier tanking. again, it's stupid to argue that mission running income is bad, if it's bad for you just because you insist on running missions against sucky factions. as for breakdown, a good mission for me would be f.ex the sansha blockade. it'll take about 40mins to complete and brings in 23m in bounties + rewards iirc, along with 6k or whatever lp. salvaging and looting in a dessy afterwards takes <20mins and typically nets another 15-20m unless i get especially lucky or unlucky, that's how i arrived at the upper figure of 40m/hour. i seem to remember people reporting figures upwards of 50m in a max income forum thread some months back, but that of course doesn't prove anything. however, for reasons mentioned above, i expect some people are indeed doing that."
"now if some one is out ratting angels in a mega is plain stupid. that is their own fault. you would get into a domi with the correct drones with damage type. the person willing to make isk ratting who is focused on nothing else would choose there tools properly. some one hopping in a belt with the wrong set up is not a true ratter. he is a passive ratter just grinding up some isk for a new mod or just bored. legit,if you posted more realistic numbers i think you would have less flack and a better debate. as it stands your post was almost flame bait. actually it borders on troll mode."
"i'm not really sure why you quoted the part you did, but your statement is blatantly false. i'm not sure if you are lying or just don't know, but high sec missions has just about the same isk/h ratio as most of 0.0 ratting with almost no risk what-so-ever. the only risks you run is falling asleep in front of your keyboard and the rats popping you, shooting back at loot-thieves and getting ganked in your overly pimped out isk-mobile. summarized, the only risk you run is being stupid.yes, i said it. the only, and i do mean only, way of losing a ship in a high sec mission is pilot stupidity, barring a war declaration  although if you're out running missions during war times, you can probably be regarded as stupid as well .0.0 ratting might not be well implemented in its current form, but the topic for discussion here is high sec missions and their complete imbalanced nature."
"legit, got a question, why are you not ratting in null space if missioning in empire is so dangerous and the rewards suck so much? this is a question for anyone else that like to answer this."
"i do not support the op.i don't run missions no but i dont think such a change would be good for the game  see my mainline arguement in the suicide ganking thread . instead look at increasing rewards in lowsec/0.0 to worthwhile levels instead of decreasing rewards in empire. ratting in 0.0 is usually a good 20-25m an hour for comparison once you get setup and assuming no one is bothering you  haha fat chance  and you are alone. someone in the thread said you could earn 60 an hour, so that gave me an idea. if 60 an hour is a fair level of income for heavy 0.0 ratting to you, why not put in place a 3.0x rat bounty multiplier on rats in any 0.0 system, and a 2.0x rat and mission bounty multiplier on an rat in 0.1 to 0.4 sec systems, while highsec rewards are untouched. in addition introduce more quality level 4's and lvl 5's in lowsec areas. dont be focused on prohibiting current professions and players, focus on improving and expanding the game. one thing i would love to see is a sort of mission system for player built 0.0 outposts, with an appropriate range of agents."
"so in essence it is harder to rat in those systems? or maybe more dangerous perhaps?so if someone is trying to make the cash has the difficulty of getting there goods to empire to sell to make up the other half of the isk per hour ratio you were throwing out there. hmm, i have never had an issue move my rat loot from balginia to sell. nor have i ever been ganked in a lvl 4 mission. i must be missing out on all this death and destruction of all these missioners. player controlled regions and space is not guaranteed, i have seen some null sec alliances in empire after losing there \"ratting heaven\". i am sure glad my agent doesn't do that, that would be a real pain in the ass. if the system is safe, it is because the person ratting took the initiative to be a part of that group and willing to pay the commensurate taxes to rat. taxes can run on average  some lower some higher  around 20%. so your 30mil per hour click is now 24 mil."
"i don't really care. you're crying already, so why not continue doing something you know?maybe some visual aid will help:  the following is a snippet from my post which you quoted with --->almost<--- no risk do you see where i'm getting at here?is this another version of the age-old \"i know you are, but what am i\" argument?"
"next time i should remember to put a [irony] marker near the megathron comment. key point you haven't addressed are: - in your 30 millions isk/hour are you counting the time to salvage? a lot of people giving his mission time forgot to add that. - you are playing alone or with an alt? again, generally people going above 20 millions hors are playing with an alt following them. but then the 0 million income should be split in two."
"well said, absolutely agree.i'm not sure about hard limits on missions but replacing them with some sort of exploration would be great, then have a mission like the current ones as a storyline once you hit a certain level of lp or another trigger.anything to bring missions more inline with the risk/reward of the rest of the game would be great and maybe even make missioning intersting."
"...i don't know what to say... do you really believe what you are posting? i mean, it's something only the mentally ******ed would say. \"high sec is the wild west\"... \"do it 12 hours a day 7 days a week for several weeks, then talk\"... i mean, seriously?1. if your only purpose in this game is to run missions, which is basically what you have been telling us, it should not matter one whit what they pay. 2. a high sec hard core mission runner is not \"picking the peanuts out of ****\". they are wealthier than those of us who try to eek out a living doing other things, such as mining or piracy. 3. nobody has to run missions for 12 hours a day, 7 days a week for several weeks to know something about mission running. in fact, someone who runs missions for 12 hours a day, 7 days a week for several weeks is probably the last person you should ask about game balance, and probably someone who should seek help for his obsessive compulsive ways.4. your posts are so idiotic you can only be trolling, so here's a premature \"**** you for trolling me\"."
"3 years experience, dude i have noobs that have a better grasp of the game than you do. for someone that has been in the game for three years, you would hope he/she would understand how things work by now. and with your statement of running missions 12 hours a day 7 days a week just makes you look to be a farmer dude. and it also means if you are spending that much time with your head in the hole like that you have no concept what else is going on in eve short of forum whoring. so you really have no idea at all about null sec or anything else. when i saw the 60 mil per hour statement you made i knew right away you were guessing and or trolling.now you have confirmed it thank you.as far as the missions. i do not want to see it get bashed to death to where it is useless. but in the same light afking through a mission is not the right thing either. i am not too crazy about the ideas presented by the op but i do understand they are ideas. and from here we can tweak them to make it palatable for all.  on a side note if you read the banter from suicide ganking thread and come here to read this thread, its amazing how perceptions are entrenched in eve. "
"dude...kiki...settle down...the thing that's most prevalent about this thread is that it seems to be just another, \"people should be playing the game the way i play it or thing it should be played\" kind of thing. this is pretty much in the same category with all the threads with the whiners begging for suicide ganking to be nerfed---uselessso wat if 'johnny everyman' stays in high sec all the time and grinds mission...how does that affect you and why should we care? and if its as 'overly-rewarding' as you claim it to be...why aren't 0.0 and low-sec systems empty all time.now, i like low-sec and i love 0.0 and i think everyone should experience them for themselves at some point in their eve life. but, its not up to anyone not me, not ki-an and his hi-larious, broken english , not the op  to force another player to do experience it or to force another player to play how they think the game was 'meant' to be played. high sec missions aren't over-rewarding, they're not under-rewarding...they're just another game mechanic that's there to fill a niche for someone's play style, in this case the casual gamer...and it does its job well."
"interesting.a proposal that only targets high sec mission runners, without considering low to no sec ratters.one of the proposals listed in the op would be to force mission runners to move about in high sec, with all their gear aboard their mission ship.now that ccp has stated that suicide ganking is to be looked at as the reward to risk is imbalanced, is this an attempt to increase a suicide gankers payday, by not just getting whats on a mission runners ship but also their other fits all in one big target, that has to travel to make their living in eve, under the proposals stated by the op.i do not see how the proposals address the issue of the isk faucet that mission running is supposed to be.consider, dedicated mission runners can make a lot of isk, to do this they train for a great period of time, tanking + two weapons systems at least. they run the risk of ninja salvagers and suicide gankers while practicing their professions.younger players have actually few ways to make isk early. in fact, they have virtually only two options, mining or mission running, while they learn the basics of this very complicated game, and yes there are always exceptions. these proposals would choke off the entry of new players into this game, as i see it. it would also turn away the casual players who make their isk from mission running. returning players who have taken a break from eve may also find it hard to come back.i can find nothing to support this proposal that would be good for the game."
"what he said, so no. i'm sorry you hate empire and missioners so much that you would be happy to see ccp lose a lot of money from n00bs/casuals/and dedicated missioners canceled accounts."
"hey! my english is pretty ok for a guy living in a friggin' ice-box!anyway, this thread isn't about us trying to make anyone play the game how we want them to play. it's about balancing the rediculously over-rewarding 99% safe high sec missions. yeah, that's right."
"lol...this inglish think was funny joke, comradexdbut seriously...even if it is over-rewarding which i still stand by the fact that its not  why should it be made a priority to be 'fixed'....the thing i've yet to see in this thread is an explanation or list of reasons of how this adversely effects the eve community as a whole"
"i suggest, as a solution to the continuity problem, that the csm elect one of their members to automatically return next time, as a means of passing information and solutions. of course you will probably want to make a rule that this person cannot hold any of the higher csm positions, to keep it truly democratic.seems like a good idea to me.natas"
"if you are serious about this then you also cannot ignore mining with guns  rats  in the drone regions.remove crap t1 sure, keep named or add named bpc, no to extra lp."
"oh granted - i'm a small-government, free-market activist irl, and i certainly agree with the point you were trying to make. i disagree with socialist lines of argument anywhere, but in eve they're not merely wrong, but also silly. as for hoarding wealth, there are incentives to do so. personally, i feel uncomfortable with less than 100 million in my wallet - i want to be able to replace clones, implants, and mission ships without having to hock assets to do so. i routinely save up more money, for future purchases, and stockpile pvp ships for future use. the point i was trying to make is that a demand-shock recession - one whereby a crisis of consumer confidence, rather than any underlying factor, slows the economy - causes pain because people become fearful and stop spending for fear of future need. the best example of this in recent memory was the us economy's slowdown after the 9/11 attacks - americans stopped spending as much, and the economy suffered as a result, despite the fact that virtually none of the real economy was affected at all. this is virtually impossible to create in eve, since people do not worry about losing their jobs or being unable to provide for their families, and people are playing it for fun, which includes large purchases of things that strike their fancy, rather than worrying about budgeting and such. ccp could probably cause one if they wanted to, but they'd be fools to try. as such, savings of cash are not strictly necessary, which is what i was saying above. and frankly, this is a good thing - real-world family finance is both boring and unfun, and it's not something i want to inflict upon eve, especially not with no credit market to speak of. there are reasons to hold cash, nonetheless, but it doesn't have the same level of necessity in tough times as hoarding irl. why do you want to encourage hoarding, anyways?"
"yes."
"if you want to introduce bpcs as loot rather than refinable goods then ccp is going to have to do a few things, they have no choice as the game would suffer far too greatly.a  eliminate advanced mining features from non-war declarable npc corps  not the militas .b  massively increase the ores available everywhere. and lower the refines from drones yet again.c  get hugely aggressive toward macro users, or implement simple macros available to miners  ore-to-can, on-ship refining, ect  and still get extremely aggressive toward macro users to the point of invasively snooping pc active processes to detect macros.e  increase factory slots available everywhere by a factor of 10, and drop the manufacturing times on everything since you now have to build twice.f  allow introduction of these bpcs directly into the invention process."
"missions should be for isk, lp and faction standings. loot should be rare but provide interesting items  high meta-level t1, bpcs, etc . missions also serve as a source for salvage mats.mining should be about obtaining raw materials.someone piloting a caldari navy raven should not be turning in more minerals per hour than someone piloting a hulk, especially considering that in mission-running, the minerals come to you while the hulk pilot has to navigate their slow, cumbersome mining barge to the asteroids - with the implication that they've been through various systems in a scout frigate looking for the best mining opportunities.another way of balancing mission risk to reward is to make missions a finite resource, just like asteroid belts. encourage the mission runners to spread out to find agents who actually have missions to be run. agents could even refer mission runners on to other agents who have lots of missions within four or five jumps. this would inevitably push mission runners into losec where the hungry hungry pirates are waiting, begging for more cannon fodder.how many birds can we kill with one stone?edit: i run missions, and i mine. i'd really love it if my several months of training to fly mining barges would put me in line for a similar income potential as training to fly a t2 drake.what i'd really like to be able to do is make enough isk per month to just keep my characters ticking over so i can escape wow to play this modern version of elite once in a while : "
"i'm not so sure that stopping the steady flow of t1 loot and the refined minerals they bring is really going to be much of a benefit to someone wanting to manufacture and sell t1 modules. agreed that no t1 drops would make a more profitable market to sell into but he also looses his easy access to the high end minerals that the mission runners supply. instead of being able to pick up minerals from anywhere people are doing missions at a good price he is going to have to go to a trade hub and is back to being price gouged by 0.0 alliances.manufacturing needs something to make it interesting and profitable but i don't think t1 garbage is the answer.  does anyone actually use t1 except people in their first couple of weeks in the game when they don't know meta 2,3&4 are?  i like the ideas around bpcs for making higher meta levels along the line as t2 is made.i know there is a lot of qq related to the profit from mining but unless ccp have a major change of mind and allow hi-sec miners to find high end ore then there is a need for t1 drops just to provide access to a reasonable amount of minerals."
"i don't mean to say i want to encourage hoarding, i'm just saying that i am interested in any mechanic that would make the market in eve closer to what a rl free market might look like."
"take it out!by taking it out maybe building tech 1 things would finaly be profitable."
"first, let me state that i have a vast operation based on t1 loot from missions that makes profits that are just sick.that said, i support this idea, but only if the change is well though out. the biggest problem with the pve portions of this game is that they are so predictable. if i run a mission against serpentis, i know which loot i am going to get, which salvage will drop, even which ships i am going to be fighting. if i choose a system in which to rat and/or mine, i know what ore i will find, what rats i will get, and again, loot and salvage. this is dull, dull, dull. exploration helps with this, but the barriers to entry in terms of skills and cost are high, and the time factor is a huge problem. yes, you might find something cool, but it can take hours of the worst kind of tedium. not quite as bad as mining ice, but close.if you are going to change drops, make it part of a larger effort to improve the excitement of the pve game. expand the loot tables on the high end to make it possible to find nearly anything, up to valuable bpc's and even bpo's. implants, t2 items, rigs, skills, things that increase faction when turned in, you name it. sure the chances might be microscopic, but so what. everytime you open that loot window there should be an opportunity for a surprise. if you do that, i think people would support raising the bar on the low end as well.i have other ideas too, about randomizing the encounter tables, etc. but they are off topic for this thread.ar"
"how do you make money off of oversized modules you can hual?"
"hummm a few questions in between;this is supposed to hit deadspace rats only? iow, belt rats  0.0 farming  still yield  roughly  the same amount of minerals?[btw, i could do with more hauler spawns][or have hauler spawns drop lots of t1 loot so the station owners can get some refining tax -.-]and if the market is overflowing with  low  named stuff... why would i want to build/buy worse-performing t1 - other than t2 production?but yes, shooting lots of stuff and then being an industrialist is not just an alternative-with-some-compromises to being a purely industry based player with mining and everything anymore - it has taken over: loot exceeds self-sufficiency in form of ammo big time.it does not replace mining - it beats mining.this may be slightly acceptable in drone regions but anywhere else it simply removes the basis for half of this sandbox called eve.now, most  me included  may giggle about our asteroid oriented fellows. sometimes they can even get on your nerves when they demand total safety in their 0.0 belts  over and over again  ^^ but their hulks are supposed to make all those gadgets possible, not those stupid cloak+warp.stab ravens.it may be convenient and established, but that is not equal to \"fine as it is\": low mins should come from empire, high mins from 0.0 - not empire-missions.while i'm at it: 0.0 hauler spawns should soften the volume of trit import, yes, but not make trit/pyer  considerably  cheaper than empire...some regional considerations couldn't hurt  like... extra nocx for angel space etc "
"this is a good example of what i mean by your failure to grasp the discussion. try reading what i wrote a couple more times. you may eventually understand. if not, you could try to find someone who can explain it to you.windjammer"
"no i think i grasped it fully. avon identifies the true problem. if that was fixed i would have no problem removing suicide ganking altogether. /edit: if you are trying to get me to reply to the other parts of your post where you accuse me of tampering with numbers and where you fail to realise what i meant in my \"rationality-post\", i've given up trying to explain them to you."
"i am for stopping insurance payouts for ships destroyed by concord.maybe it could be limited on negative security status player, to give a chance to newbies."
"with the ease to repair standing, many gankers can have a positive standing, so basing the punishment on the standing of the ganker would not work well. <end reply to quote>it dawned on me as i read the latest added posts on this thread that it all comes down to what you find fun...ratting is fun and profitable, for some folks... so needing to rat for a few hours or days to repair your bad security rating should not be \"punishment\"... but wait, not all folks like to rat...when we were young  for some of you, this is only yesterday  and we did something wrong, our parents normally did something to punish us and it often included the requirement to do something distasteful... i do remember getting in more trouble when i tried to rationalize my mis-deeds into something positive...\"i broke the window in the garage to let the wasps out so i could get to my bike...\"at this point, the punishment for suicide ganking  minor isk loss for the ship, slight sec hit  does not fit the crime... removal of the insurance payout would increase the punishment slightly, it would not eliminate the criminal activity, it would just add a slight increase to the punishment...were the security level changes to a player based on the system's posted security level  standing with concord only , then the other part of the punishment, \"ratting\" would then be needed to be done in low sec and/or high sec and take a lot longer... but pirating in low sec would not lower your standing near as fast... in fact suicide ganking in .5 space would not lower your standing with concord as much..."
"what a long and pointless threadful of ego's clashing.that said, i agree with the premise that the risk/reward balance for suicide ganking is out of balance.i do not want to see suicide ganking eliminated.i do want the penalty for the criminal act increased.sliding insurance premiums. 1 concord kill = a 10% insurance surcharge, that comes off at renewal, if no more concord kills. 2 kills 20%, 3 kills 30% and no premium available, keep scaling until no insurance is available. in rl an insurance co bases price on risk of payout, suicide gankers should be a high risk policy.faction hits. a criminal operating in a soverign state would not be allowed the open unfettered access in their space. also attacking someone with high standing with an npc corp now has no consequenses, there should be. security hit, faction hit npc corp hit.much longer timer for theft, in 15 min i won't forget you stole from me. the ganker docks or jumps and the victim has no recourse. how about a 5 day timer for stealing.   revenge is a dish best served cold  . let me go get my bs and hunt you down, only fair i think.   i forget, gankers only want helpless victims, not someone that can fight back  . just because i'm in a hauler does not mean thats all i can fly, perhaps i can return the out of the blue attack on you.bounty hunter profession, there have been good suggestions to implement this.tradeable kill rights.fix the problems that allow ganking in the undocking area, a ganker doing this is using an exploit.none of this would prevent the selfserving claims of justification for suicide ganking   wardec players in npc corp for example  , but it would make the criminal think. random ganking of empty haulers on the chance of a big payoff would have consequenses. even the common purse snatcher does not run down a street grabbing at every shoulder bag in sight, they pick their victim survey the situation and have an idea of risk vs reward. as now implemented there is too much reward for very little risk.an afk hauler moving a couple bil of goods through 0.6 space, deserves to be ganked, hell i might consider it myself. it is the ease of random gankspamming that is out of balance.i heard it before and i subscribe to it also. ' don't fly what you can't afford to lose', and 'if you can't do the time, don't do the crime'.as it now stands, there is no effective risk for the potential reward. the risk factor needs to be brought into balance. i would lose a ship with no insurance reimbursement, take a faction hit and look over my shoulder for a couple days to steal a couple billion, i would not take the risk for an empty hauler. hey that would mean the gankers would have to think and maybe even scan their targets first. this would make suicide ganking something other than greiving."
"how about both ideas? something like what avon suggests and the lack of insurance payout for concord kills.i think it'd probably be best if there was some device a player could buy that would alert the player when a cargo scanner was used on his ship. this is optional though.have the other half being a \"debris shield generator\" that runs on scrap metal  the background would be that it's basically a hack created by freighter pilots . yeah, i know that sounds stupid, but let me finish.it's:* a kind of \"shield\" that a freighter can carry where it ejects a large amount of scrap metal from the ship which forms a cocoon that provides like 95% tank against all shield types because weapons are hitting the scrap metal instead of the ship.* requires like 100 or 200 or 300 or whatever units of scrap metal per second of activation. this would be scaled for average cargohold size. a t1 hauler might require just hundreds per second. a big jump freighter might require thousands of units per second. the rule would be that for 30 seconds of protection you'd have to give up about 70% of the basic cargo space to scrap metal  pre-mods/skills . edit: maybe more - perhaps 100% of unmodded cargo space for 30 seconds - we don't want to make suicide ganking impossible, just make the gankers work for it more.* so why scrap metal? because it's bulky and it's cheap and worthless to haul otherwise. the protection doesn't cost money directly - instead it costs the hauler money by forcing him or her to give up cargo space to fit protection. how much protection is up to the hauler: how fast do you think concord will react?* the shield has to be turned on and off manually. your scrap metal supply limits how long you can leave it on. so if you're afk or just not paying attention you can still be ganked  the cargo scanner alert would help with this - if you're paying attention you might notice you're being cased , otherwise, watch when you see like six ravens waiting around a gate and turn on your scrap metal ejector.* the shield isn't so hot in lowsec or nullsec as you can just be webbed and scrambled and the pirates wait for your scrap metal to run out, then gank you - thus it doesn't totally replace luck/savvy in those areas.* as for station ganking - just make ships leaving a station exit the station on a random vector / speed. it's a little unrealistic, but so is a station tolerating capulseers sitting right outside of a station smartbombing noob frigates and ganking exiting ships, only to get blown up by concord, then showing up again in a few minutes with a new ship to do it some more. the predictable exit location makes camping easy. most suicide gankers who are motivated by economics do it for the reward/effort  as there's really little risk at the moment . sitting in front of jita 4-4's exit port is easy. having to watch a 360 sphere around jita 4-4 would require a lot more work."
"i agree totally!it's hard to find fw info, because it's split up over every forum. also, as someone noted in a different thread, caod doesn't allow players from militias to post, because militias aren't player corporations."
"other than the rp section, even...definately supported."
"if you want to fix caod, keeping fw out of it isn't the answer. think of why it's bad now. fw has ig and cas, they are more than welcome there."
"yes, please have fw shuffle off into its own corner of the universe instead of crowding general discussion with reports of who captured some complex with 3 frigates..."
"agreed, i would love to have a fw section."
"in any game system, you will find peaks and sweetspots, and at this point in time the sacrilege is one of the sweetest of them all. yes, it enjoys extremely fine privileges  huge pg, excellent dps, and perfect boni for a nano-ship, like cap recharge and armour resistances , but many of these are a consequence of its varied history in-game rather than outright design.right now, it is certainly in the top echelon of ships  much like the falcon, and much unlike the pilgrim, for example . indeed, it is possibly even over-powered, and as such may well suffer a small nerf in future  a thought which saddens me a little, as right now training for it is my toon's medium-term goal .the cerb, in comparison, is a very useful workhorse, and probably mid-range as hacs go. certainly better than a muninn, eagle or deimos, for sure, and a useful dps provider for many a nano-gang. as a caldari pilot with a cerb in the hanger, of course i'd like to see it buffed, but equally it makes no sense to use the peaks in a game system as points of reference for balance, as all you do is introduce 'power-creep' into the game. it would be far more sensible to argue for a nerf to the sac.two things may well be in the pipeline which will indirectly buff the cerb anyway. bringing precision heavies into line with the other precision missiles will make the cerb a holy terror for anything travelling under 5km/s, while at the same time ccp have avowed their intention to curb the very top level 'pimped' speeds, meaning that nano-ships will find it much harder to evade the cerb's firepower.at this point, a cerb pilot has two choices: pack amls and precision lights, and two-volley inties from 60km away, or else fit hmls and apply 300 consistent dps to any nano-pilot within 85 km  possibly even further ."
"troll."
"fixed top tip: it helps if you read what we were both saying, as mostly we are in agreement."
"i am for the removal of the kinetic bonus to a generic damage bonus on caldari ship... the missile is suppose to be about choice of damage... it seem normal that caldari ship have the choice to choose the damage type..."
"where kin bonus is crap, its a bit logical, because so caldari ships are in pair with other race ships which have limited damage types caldari could get 5% to 2 damage types omho . but the problem is not that.the problem is caladari atm on mst cruiser sized ships have no low range high damage weapons as every other race, because the fitting issue of the hams. if u want to use hams that should need more fitting req. but atm the difference is so big too big req on hams or too low pg on ships  that even if u can fit them u have the same dps because fitting mods and just slight better damage on this hams.so atm caldari on most cruiser, bc sized ships are without the option of using real short range high damage weapons."
"how many different games out there allow you to walk around? to dance, play music/instruments, make rude gestures at each other?mostlet's not shoehorn eve into that stupid niche. ambulation has no place in eve beyond just the basics  walking around . none of this poseball fixation, please!let's vote not to have secondlife/wow/swg in eve, tyvm."
"had a blast in the lotro trial. this would be hell of fun."
"this is one of the gayest things i've ever seeni support it 100%"
"stfu, awox alt.**** yeah, supported. i want to pewpew people with my awesome tunes."
"only if my character can look like eddie!"
"of course yes, anything besides looking at the outside of my ship and a poorlittle chat box.lets have some fun."
"here is a video of this in action as a demonstration. pay no mind that it's a bunch of elves and hobbits and ****."
"i'll support anything that improves my station dwelling experience."
"a 200 man battle of the bands over this song would be the best mmo event to happen in eve."
"wow what do you kick out musicians?full support."
"hells yeah, as long as we can have fluffy bunny ears and a tail in ambulation too.then i could invite you all to my furry  sexeh  party where you can all blow in my flute while my tail beats the rythm."
"edit: hit enter and poasted..but yeah, as the topic says. if i can be concorded for remote repping a rat, theres no reason remote repping a someone who has been flagged by combat shouldnt cause a flag. the ability to remote rep while sitting on a station and dock without having to wait out a timer is a joke."
"stupid, posting mah support"
"supportin' dis. no aggression timers from remote repping people who are aggressed is stupid. furthermore, fix the god damn aggression timers. 45 seconds is no where near enough time to kill a bs, much less a cap ship, unless you blob the hell out of them.thanks. cruise control off now."
"showing my support for this. case and point, i have a fleet in a hostile system. they undock 10 logistics ships to rep their fleet....primary the logistics, omg look at dat they all docked!broken system much?"
"wholly supported.repping a ship that is actively aggressing should earn aggression flag in return  as well as the aggression timer , so the repper is stuck for at least 60s.repping a ship that's just sitting there getting shot at should not  since that non-aggressing ship can dock at any time, so then should the reppers ."
"perfectly put"
"agreed"
"/supportthere is also this thread"
"agreed."
"oppose.i can't believe people are so upset about this. when i first saw the learning skills i was about a few months into the game and thought \"they increase your stats? cool.\" sure, training the basics to 5 and coughing up the cash for the advanceds was a pain but i happily accepted that that's just how things were, got on with it and did it. it took a while but i felt a great deal of achievement when i finished the lot.it sounds like the players are broken, rather than the skills. a good countermeasure would be to prevent learning skills from being trained on trial accounts. this would send a message that you should have fun during the trial and only train the learning skills if you plan on sticking around.the thing is, the skills are the perceived problem; the real problem is the playerbase which, while well-meaning, can be rather obsessive when they latch on to some mechanic that works well  something i'm guilty of too . if you want to help out  and i don't doubt that the point of this thread is to make new players' lives easier  then hammer home the message to the help channel regulars that learning skills are not something you should be thinking about until you can afford to buy all of the learning skillbooks in one go and still have enough to replace your ship if it dies.with regards to corps that set minimum barriers to entry such as sp and learning skills, do you really want to work for such a bunch of idiots?since ccp have apparently declared that removing learning skills is impossible, this discussion really would be better put to use by finding ways to improve the skills so that they no longer serve an exclusively meta-gaming purpose. as an idea, how about each skill give a minor bonus to some operation. empathy could reduce transaction tax by 1% per level; analytical mind might decrease mining cycle times.if these learning skills had bonuses such as those, how many people might look upon them more favourably? just some food for thought."
"my little alt creation test was to prove a couple of things. one, to show a toon created for one purpose, this case industry, was not permently gimped in combat, the learning skills helped moderate the lack of initial skills. second, and most important, to prove learning skills are not a time sink!anyone that sees almost 1 year of extra training for less than a month's investment as a time sink, needs to define time sink for me.it may be the same on the boards, but those i run into in the game, that are extremely opposed to learning skills seem to be the ones that want the uber-leetness now! the concept of larger benefit in the future as opposed to immediate reward seems incomprehensable to them. these are also the ones that as a group are less understanding of a play style other than pvp ganking.i am opposed to removing the learning skills completely and replacing them with attribute points, i am however in favor of a senseable restructuring of them. the more the merrier. i would like to see a plan that allows for more diversity.lets take a couple of items as an example. gunnery skill gives a 2% bonus to rate of fire per level; skills are perception and willpower. lets add a learning skill called deadeye. deadeye gives a 2% bonus to the learning time for a set of combat related skills, including gunnery. in addition deadeye grants a 10% bonus per level to the 2% that gunnery adds to rate of fire. that's a skill most of the objectors would find handy.for researchers we could add learning skills like advanced electronic engineering that add bonusus to all the scientific fields with electronics 5 as a prerequsite. bonus such as reduced research and invention time.miners have veldspar processing, gaining a bonus in the amount retreived at the processing plant. how about veldspar mining that grants a 5% bonus to cycle time when mining veldspar?haulers and curriers could get packing methods, a skill that allows a 3% increase in cargo capacity.all these could, ofcourse, be introduced as regular skills, but if we add a level or 2 of attributes to the skill training, and a large amount of these specialized learning skills there would be an almost endless amount of diversity available. i would like to see them as targeted learning skills that is, they reduce the time needed to train the target skill, but also add to the value of the skill being trained.using targeted learning skills would take the sting out of learning, for those that don't like it, because they would see benefit as soon as they finished the level. they would learn the target skill, a little bit faster, and a little bit better. and put a little bit more pew in the pew-pew."
"signed"
"actually, hull repair modules need a complete overhaul to be useful items.currently they are 1/16th as efficient as shield or armor repair.yet gallente are supposedly the 'hull tankers' of eve, yet they cannot repair their hulls.cycle types for all hull repair  equipped or remote  should be reduced to be on par with armor/shield repair to allow players another option for setting up their ships."
"i completely agreeccp please fix our  broken  precision heavy missiles"
"fix all t2 ammo, not just missiles."
"please make this useless ammo work : "
"this is way i like this idea, your not asking for \"incease it by 2000% velocity!\" but are in fact just looking for something more balanced without baing game breaking."
"signed, signed, a thousand times signed."
"i support the op."
"one of the biggest complaints about missile use in pvp is that in engagements above a certain size where distances or numbers are significant, long range missiles simply don't have enough time to reach a target before it warps off or is destroyed. i suggest something that will significantly minimize this without giving missiles any negative balance effects.double missile velocity, half missile flight timethis change would literally take five minutes of a developer's time. if anyone can think of a compelling reason as to why this would be a poor decision, feel free to post it. otherwise, i would like your support on this issue."
"ha ha, i get it now...man, he's good.edit: first post in a tarminic thread aside, supported.also, buff precision heavies plx"
"trust me...if i was trolling, you'd know it."
"specific, constructive, and polite. well done."
"while obviously not quite so distraught... i can kinda agree.i've found my overview and current target windows suddenly overlapping for no particular reason.and i would like to leave a gap at the bottom of my local chat window, and where all the minimized bars appear at the very bottom. but the first time i reload the client, they are back to overlapping as well.it is pecular that something so simple, can't be readily fixed. it doesn't say much for any sort of timely correction to the many other problems, both big and small."
"*lol*it's just frustrating to open up a show info, or a can, or whatnot and have my entire client suddenly go nuts because one window resized, causing all of the windows around it to resize, jump across the screen, or vanish.every time a major content patch is released this happens... *every single time*.ccp, get a handle on it for once and all, plzthnks!oh, and posting here because i can't 'support' my opening post. fix that, too, ccp..."
"sometimes the issue at hand is more important than how it is presented to the public.fix: pinned windows can't be moved by anything until unpinned."
"/signage"
"in fairness, ccp have claimed to have fixed this bug 2 patches ago.edit: for support"
"haha, you guys are still going on about it ??? isnt the term ending soon anyway ???i dont like how we have a creepy grown man who roleplays as a amarr / slaver / ugly guy with a hood named azzma makes eve players look dumb.do you quit now ?edit: i kind of feel sorry for bumping it up again, but this thread is like a car accident. its horrible and you still keep watching."
"some of the caldari missile ships are designed as \"snipers\" getting missile velocity and missile flight time bonus.the problem with this concept is, this missile ships atm cant fill the role, because more reasons:1. missiles are slow and if u shoot from bigger distance, take even longer time to give damage2. this ships are very slow, highest mass, lowest basespeed, which make them unable to hold range, where they should be3. because pg issue the most of them cant really use mwd, which make the range holding issue even worst.so the solution could be that all ships which have missile flight time bonus should get a missile velocity bonus. the ships which already have this simple should get the double.that would cause that the damage is not so extremly deleayed and so a bit better inpact in the fight. would not be too overpowered, because the explosion velocity would be the same and so even if the fast missiles hit the fast moving target they would not do damage because explo velocity.devs should realise that missiles are no sniper weapons and if they want ships using them as sniper weapons they should get much more speed!"
"deny. you're stupid if you don't realize why this is a bad idea."
"missile boats arent snipers...every race has their strengths and weekenesses for a reason. missile boats exchange their delayed damage for their ability to change dmg types on the fly. once you realize this is as balanced as it gets, then you'll understand why we think your idea is retarded."
"change damage type on ships which have mostly bonus to i damage type is a very limited advantagesimply dont see why u fear so much from +50% missile velocity on some dedicated ships. where would this ships be overpowered?"
"just give all 'ranged' missiles a 2000x velocity boost or more and give them a secondary kinetic damage for plowing into the target at a fraction of c.oh, wait, the devs are nanophags so it'll never happen."
"*sigh*missles are not meant to be sniping weapons. caldari already have ships that are used for sniping. they're called rail ships. use them and deal with tracking like the rest of us snipers."
"agree. thats why is crazy to have ships which have 200-300km missile range without the speed, and have wasted 2 bonuses on something which is useless.im happy to trade the missile flight time to 5% rof and dont be able to shoot on 200km because is useless. missiles are no sniping weapons thats why bad to give them even bigger range with bonus"
"yeah, great idea, let's make defenders even more of a joke...god forbid missiles might have drawbacks when compared to guns. turrets have to reduce their damage to reach farther ranges. the delay with missiles is a compensation for doing maximum damage whatever the range.by this sentence, you just showed not only your ignorance about ship mass, but also your inaptitude to speak about balancing...and what do you think the other races do? they do sacrifices in their fittings, just like you should. caldari ships aren't worse off fitting mwd. those who suffer the most are the amarr and gallente, because the cap penalty is extra-painfull with ships needing cap not only for defense, but also for offense."
"if caldari ships have no fitting issue with mwd, try to fit one on the nh, caracal.....see u never flough caldari shipsand about the cap issue. ishtar-nano+buffertank, deimos-buffertank, zealot-nano+buffertank, sacri-nano+plenty of cap, vaga-nano+buffertanki fly this ships and they have no prob with mwd"
"try using a raven with torpedoes in pvp  which is a freaking awesome ship  without that range bonus that it gets.. then come back and tell me how 'sucky' it is."
"raven have a velocity bonus not a flightime.......thats what i speak about. btw if u would change the speed to another 5% rof it would be extreme overpowered and most of the pvp-ers in ravens would be happy to spam torps just to 20km for extra 33% dps i think i personly would like  ok i tell u a bit more precise: change the missle flightime bonus on the \"cerberus\""
"disagree.are you jim raynor's alt, damned force? or maybe his clone that doesn't bother to type as well.regardless, raynor is ranting about how much the cerebus is terrible compared to the amarrian pwnboat  which i think he has a point in  but seems to cover a lot of griping similar to yours.i agree that missiles need a closer look, perhaps even a complete overhaul of concept as they seem to overlap so much railguns and similar long-range weapons so much there's always confusion about this \"sniping\" thing. plus, in the current nano environment, even in my limited 0.0 experience, i routinely see every race's cruisers and even battlecruisers  except for caldari  outrun missiles or their explosions.i don't quite think your solutions are good.if you opened a thread saying you think that missiles are gimped, and that making a race's major trademark strength being a weapon that's so laughably bad in pvp in eve: nanopyrean age, with some concrete suggestions, i'd support it. but not as it is now, sorry."
"support but not the existing-velocity-gets-dbled-partif missiles arent sniper wepaons then wtf is the cerb specced for?flight itme bonus is kinda pointless..."
"these caldari noobs are really annoying me now. i wish they'd get a clue."
"errrr...flight time bonus + hams...come back when you try it."
"hams on a cerb? you like going \"boom\" don't you.the problem right now with caldari is the fact that they can't touch fast ships for dps and can't flee fast ships. unless your going to spend every single slot you have setting a tank  thereby doing severly reducing dps, basically making you useless  your dead. even then, your probably dead.i'm still trying to figure out why missles, which are used to take out the fast moving and agile combat aircraft are so inneffective against the fast moving and agile ships in eve."
"what? who said this?"
"i don't like the proposed fix, but missile velocity needs to be looked at."
"\"sniper\" and \"missile\" in the same sentence? wtf?"
"agreed, most excellent and concise summary of the issue"
"it can't be that hard to do can it?  and s****** as the people maybe i should post this thread in there too the csm forum seems to have become they replacement for spamming ideas, which is not why it was created. i'm not saying an idea should never end up here, but it should not be the first port of clal, as there is an aptly named ideas forum specifically for that.maybe instead of just spamming every idea people cna think of here, if they seemed popular in the ideas forum, they could be escalated here, instead of spammed here?that's just my two cents"
"while it is a good point...people have noticed that a thread in features and ideas can go on for months, if not years, without a single response from a dev.then that thread is lost to the 90day timer, and more threads are restarted with the same ideas. over and over, week after week, people will argue the exact same points. and none of them receive acknowledgement or attention.what it amounts to is, f&i is where irate players go to rant about stuff. then when everyone has come to a consensus that the problem doesn't exist, or that the problem is genuine... the thread goes away as more take its place.nothing is ever done in f&i... but things seem to at least receive acknowledgement here in assembly hall.so until ccp wants to hire some decent moderators... along with a staff of programmers that can actually create a functional game... then people will voice themselves wherever they seem to get attention."
"working off the rumours in the pipeline concerning moving all ore belts to exploration, i had an idea for a potential industrial skill  with ship .prospecting  rank 4 prerequisitesspaceship command iiiastrometrics ivindustry iisignal aquisition iastrometric triangulation iiiskill bonus: +10% scan strength bonus with gravimetric probes per level.ore 'prospector' class frigaterole bonus: 200% bonus to gravimetric sensor strength of scan probes, -100% to radar, ladar and magnometric sensor strength of scan probes.prospector bonus: -10% scan time for gravimetric probes per levelvessel slots and stats should allow a reasonable degree of survivability  enough to be able to survey a site against low level rats, heavier stuff will need you to get out of there asap.  enough cpu and grid to fit scan probe launchers, probably only 1 high slot, it's designed to find belts for the miners not do mining itself.it's heavily specialised in it's role, however in return for that specialisation, if you want to be finding hidden belts then this is the ship you want to be using.-----i know it would need a lot more work especially in hammering out the fitting stats however what do you guys think of this rough version?"
"i support this! make miners go to low-sec for bigger profits."
"support here.iirc, the \"fluff\" reason concord doesn't bounty drones is because they only bounty \"people\". rats have people in them, and killing them earns the bounty, not the ship."
"old problem. maybe its time to introduce lowsec/0.0 \"veldspar\" roids which give 2-3x more trit after refining?"
"signed. and stop spawning ice-fields in hi-sec, or make them small and finite like roid belts are now."
"make specific ore drop only one type of mineral, and put each ore type only in certain region/security statut...this way, the price of each mineral will balance with the danger involve with the market force..."
"anything that reduces the effectiveness of macro mining in high sec npc corps."
"yes, it would be nice to see the mid-range ores worth something again. i remember when i was a new player that actually going into lowsec and mining in my osprey was worth the risk. this encouraged me to actually venture out, and i spent more time in lowsec then i did in high sec in those days. many new players no longer have that incentive to venture out and risk their mining cruiser or get a small gang together and try a lowsec group mine.since the drone regions are really the source of the problem and seem to make mining as the secondary choice of getting mid-range minerals, i think ccp should remove the refinables that drones drop. this should be replaced by meta-drone items, perhaps bpcs and parts to make them; since having a dead drone drop a new drone makes no sense: i thought ccp was doing this, but i have yet to see any evidence. i think this makes more sense then trying to increase the use  demand  for these mid-range materials, but perhaps a combination of the two.whatever the case, ccp needs to do something about the situation. they constantly say that they want more people in lowsec, yet do nothing to encourage players who are industry oriented from ever leaving highsec."
"the way to do it is to make low sec always more valuable than high sec.a few ideas. numbers are not playtested and balanced duh.1  all ore is everywhere. veldspar -- it comes in 6 different varities. veldspar at the normal level exists from 1.0 down to .5. from .5 - 0 it exists at a dense veldspar with 50% more refine. from 0.0 to -.5 it is crystalline veldspar and exists at 200% normal veldspar refine. from -.5 to -1.0 it is omg awesomeness veldspar at 5-10x the normal veldspar amount. exploration belts have ore of the next lower level.arkonor -- same deal but reversed. wherever arkonor starts in a region is its base. if it starts at -.3 the -.3 to -.8 is normal ark. -.8 to -1.0 is 50% better. .2 to -.3 is 50-75% normal. .7 - .2 is 30-50%. 1.0 - .7 is 10% arkonor.my personal favorite. it would make sense that the empires mined out the better ores already leaving deep space to have untapped resources.2 low sec module-the idea is that a module is scripted like the cyno generator to only work in low sec. this module mines better than current mining lasers so it has a yeild increase for going to lowsec. another module scripted like interdiction shperes boosts 0.0 mining amounts. 3 ship ideaa ship is either not allowed to enter highsec through some means and mines better than a hulk.  not preferred  or the ship cannot enter highsec and mines high sec ores better than a hulk. another cannot enter empire at all and mines high sec much better and low sec somewhat better than a hulk. this means hulk is for mining the 0.0 ores and high sec ores and these other ships for mining outside the current range.2 and 3 simply increase yield which isn't my preferred fix but might be easier. the first idea the minin amount and logistics of hauling the ore stay the same. comppressed super veld would be good for mineral logistics.drones need to start dropping tons of low ends from their refinables to be balanced to what most of the rest of the game requires. drones are way out of whack because they drop minerals so disproportionately. also mission loot and 0.0 rat loot needs to be looked at. these changes would all make mining for low ends more viable than ratting for lowends in 0.0 again. i fly a really nice hulk and rat trit from loot in 0.0 faster than my hulk mining veldspar. don't nerf bat the loot just make 0.0 veld somehow better than 1.0 veld like the rats and everything else scales."
"actually, it makes complete sense to have exceptions to insurance payouts built into the policy. it happens in rl with every insurance company. there are things that, for instance, your auto insurance will not cover...like intentionally driving it off a cliff, or acts of war, or mother natures wrath, etc."
"now there's a good idea. anything in the game that can be turned over to the players is a good thing, as long as it's well thought out and implemented correctly."
"i fully support this product/service"
"not supported, horrible idea. decrease insurance!"
"self destruct was implemented to stop griefing of the sort where a player holds down another player indefinatly with a warp disrupter and web with no intent on killing. so removing insurance on self destruct in that case no longer makes sense. the problem is insurance is too cheap compared to what it insures, fix that and self destructing problems are automatically fixed."
"capital ships are... big so what is the deal with pew pewing at some random point on them? a ship the size of my homestate shouldn't be that hard or easy to take down at the same time. in the following few paragraphs  ill keep it shortish  i'm going to propose an idea that is not an orginal idea of my own but in fact a mechanic used it other rts and ship based games. sub system targeting, -following the same idea as the current system for outposts, captial ships should have systems you can target. for instance the engines, or the shield generators. -one of the importants parts of my plan is that it might either open the door or smaller ship sub targeting or just block the door forever as an idea that would only work on capital ships like in that starwars rts. now one of the biggest issues with sub system targeting as brought up in the past is when can you shoot these parts? once the shields are down? then what about armor tankers? but i've though of a simple solution. have difference services have different levels of protection.engines- targetable once shield go below 60%-note this is not the jump drive to stop a captial ship from jumping you must hold it down with a heavy dictorshield generator- targable once armor goes below 80%armor nano-bots repair central- armor below 10%fighter/drone deployment bay- once armor is below 60%- below 20% armor for carriers and 10% struture for motherships  -also take take stupid drone dreadnautweapons array- once armor is below 40%  all weapons are considered one system for lag reasons "
"i could add more but i didn't want to because of the lag monster. however you might be sayign to your self, what the hell would be the point of taking out a ships system when it's going to die really soon anyway! that is because i'm not just calling for sub system targeting but it fact a complete rethink of capital warfare! capital ships are big big big -add 400% struture hp to all capital class ships -this way capital ships are hard to kill but not so hard to take down. struture has always been seen as once the armor and shields are gone there is just ship to tear through, and it bothers me that capital ships don't seem to have much ship, they are the size of a state! however i'm not done yet because now you might be asking then why not let it explode anyways if it can't do anything!slavaging to the extreme!!! -to boost the rewards for taking down these state sized mach machinces players should be allowed to slavage capital ships and get more stuff depending on how damage the ship is once it's into struture.extras-all of these systems other than the egines should be hard if not impossible for other capital weapons to hit. thus only crusiers and smaller would be able to effectly take out these systems. while biger ships battleships and up would take down the shields and armor. making newer players and smaller ships much more usefull and needed in combat with capital ships.-sub systems will go offline at struture damage. just like pos mechcanic this well be repairable in combat by remote reps, giving ships like the minmatar carrier more use in fleet warfare. also they will have a lot of hp on the subsystems, however not ressitance becuase it's not fair when a healer can heal 99times what you can deal.the future!- i was thinking about going as far as letting mplayers board capital ships once all subsystems arte taken out and have fps battles inside them, yarr. or just being able to take them over :phowever i don't know if people should be able to steal them becuase that would make capital ship market change a lot... maybe if you have to buy new subsystems or something? i don't want to kill the industy side of eve with my idea...anyways tell me what you think!sorry about spelling and stufffinal notei believe the key in sub system targeting for any ship is a basic fact of these are much small targets than the ship it'self, and you should not be able to shoot the gun off a rifter with another rifter that is just silly :phowever takingout a statehouse sized shield generator on the side of a state sized capital ship? should be much easier."
"i would support this, if the % of shield/armor/hull that's needed to take down to target subystems where higher  i think i'm not sure - 'cuz i'm not a capital pilot - but being able to take out a carrieres ability to launch fighters/drones  i presume that's what u mean by \"fighter/drone deployment bay- once shields are below 10%\"  when shield fall below 10% seems a bit extremeif its a chimera sure, shield are about to fail on a shield ship spells doom still ovrpowerd though since you probably still can make a diffenerce in a fight with a dying chimera , still u wouldnt be able to go down fighting, but on a archon/niddhogur/thanatos you havent egen gotten into the 'tanked' hp yetalso i think engines  i guess u mean subwarp and warp  shouldnt be targetable until 0% shields, from rp pow 'cuz the shields protect the ships physical parts until they failnot sure what you mean by \"self destrut systems\", should destroying this part of the ship disable its selfdestruct or override internal controls forcing the ship to initiate selfestruct? disabling someones selfedtruct would take away the ability to kill yourself rather then end up on your enemys killboard, witch is no funand initiating someones selfdestruct shouldnt be doable until like 20% hull, that would also make a new tactic avaliable as you could shoot a cap into some% hull and then make it self destruct, then quicker move on to the next target"
"yeah omg what was i thinking :p i moved it to in to 60-80% armor for carriers and motherships.... in fact maybe motherships should have this instead be 20% struture hp? giving motherships a role oh omg it won't die?but overall yeah i think each ship class should have it's own rules.finally what if the self selfestruct system was also changed for all capital ships? what if instead of taking yourself out it just made the ship unrepairable and basicly turned it into a wreck that still has 400,000 stuture hp left over?this way maybe selfestruct would actully become how all captial ships died? which in my mind makes more sence because of how massive the ships are.but yeah stopping someone from selfestructing is lame i agree with that."
"ooh, here's one for you:to target subsystems, you need a signal scanning resolution of over, say, 400-500.so only frigates and sensor-boosted cruisers/battleships can make these precision shots. the damage would be inflicted on shields/armor as usual, but it would add heat to any modules of the system type that were fitted.target weapons: heat damage added to random # of weapons. armor: reppers/hardeners. ditto for shields. propulsion: abs/mwds, i'm looking at you. maybe even include a generic ewar category to nail webbers, disruptors, and ecm/damps.this could also add a lot more tactical action to combat, since if you're being held down by a tackler who's tank you can't break, you might be able to target their ewar systems and disable their point, or target their propulsion and get out of range."
"reminds me of warhammer 40,000.problem is: if we can destroy hardpoints, we need a way to repair them. this might require a specialized ship to either repair, or remove and replace hardware. if all else fails, they can tug them back to friendly space. to rep the damaged parts, you use basic capital building parts. add a bit of expense to a damaged ship.hopefully this will bring the price of carriers etc up a bit. stop the cap flood.tug-freighter.locks onto friendly jump bridges using a specialized jump portal generator that can tug a single carrier, dread, or freighter to a repair station or a pos for ship to ship repairs. for ms and titans, they pair up. 2 for ms, 4 for titans."
" since the ideas & features section never gets read  something to sow confusion among your enemies, neutral scanners, & gank squads.false manifest container  small, standard, freight size:sm: 1000 m/3, volume 500 m/3  1m isk standard: 5000 m/3, volume 2500 m/3  10m isk freight: 120k m/3, volume 80k m/3  50m isk what does it do?when scanned it returns a false cargo reading!when you assemble one you bind it to either your personal hangar, or a selected corp hangar that you have 'read' access to. whenever your ship gets scanned the scanning ship gets a random selection of whatever's in that hangar.  or they're sold in permanently linked pairs and a scan returns whatever's in the paired can in the hangar .obviously it seriously limits your cargo capacity and can only be moved by industrial/freighter but the upside is complete confusion of anyone attempting to scan your cargo for goodies. one serious downside... if you've got drugs in that hangar and a faction customs agent scans you it sees that contraband! you get fined but it doesn't get confiscated  because it's not in your cargo  meaning you might get scanned again at the next gate... and the next...modules:downscanner  when your ship is scanned returns various 0-4 meta level t1 gear . high slot passive module.upscanner  when your ship is scanned returns 9-13 meta level equipment . high slot passive module."
"i like this idea. could be used to protect assets, or provide bait.only problem is what about freighters?"
"neat idea. not sure its really worth while though."
"i like it. not sure about the details, but the principle's a good one."
"i doubt it'll be useful - i wonder how many pirate cargo scan anyway after they see the same pilot come through and back the same gate? is it worth the slot? if you're going to be ganked or suicided it won't matter what's in your hold, the loot drop will just be a bonus surely?maybe i'm not giving the empire pirates credit though."
"ccp, take a look at these.their premise is very sound, but their utility is lousy. their damage is atrociously low for the weapon class.a  give them some utility beyond 'just damage' if you're afraid of mission runners just loading & forgetting. remove the 'damage' quotent from f.o.f.s and have them do other things... such as speed arresting, sensor disrupting, energy draining, ect ect. something that will give the attacker a thorough battle hiccup but takes more thought than just fire and forget, rinse & repeat.b  increase their damage and adjust their target prioritization  so they don't just wastefully chase drones or ships too fast to catch . c  make them stupidly fast with very broad explosion radii to be used as nano counters."
"at max skills, a fof missile does 93.75% of t1 missile damage. that's a pretty small penalty for the benefit of being able to shoot while jammed. admittedly, i'd love a buff to their ai, but in a one-target situation, they're quite good at their job."
"maybe a little polish to them but nothing crazy. they are pretty decent as is for a back up weapon. of course when you have multiple ships around you end up just spray and praying. maybe the ai could be a priority selection thing. like your drones you can adjust the ai a bit  although currently they are annoyingly belligerent . maybe with these you can select ewar or dps. another words you can have the go after who ever is using ewar  disrupt, web, damps, ecm etc.  on you or whomever is causing the heaviest damage."
"when you are jammed by other player so in a pvp situation you most likely have faction missiles/ammunition that is alot better than t1, same t1 that is better  in damage  than fof which doesnt have a faction version."
"all missiles should recieve a rudimentary ai, including fof.if a missile detects that the target is pulling away they should automatically switch to a target that is within its range and not going so fast.heck, just make all missles fof and eliminate that missile entirely. ofc this would require a serious adjustment of missile ai and defender function."
"do you actually know how fof missiles work?"
"only thing i can agree to is somehow making f.o.f. missiles only target agressive ships, and not drones. currently they go after the nearest agressor. as to the range, deactivate, reactivate."
"actually they also suffer from a range bug that also cuts them off at ~80k. so if you get a sensor booster and are thinking of hitting ecm/snipers at 150k or 180, or whatever your skills dictate for range , i can tell you now that they're useless for that. they won't target anything further than 80k, even if that something is actively aggressing you.so damagewise yeah they're good at their job, but they're a bugged delivery system.edit: i'm talking specifically cruise f.o.f. here, can't fly anything that can hit 80k with heavies."
"you could hit 190+ in a cerb with hydras. 320 or so dps. in a raven you can hit out past 205. but this by looking at the stats in game. i am not aware of any gug. what bug are speaking of?"
"however you are not supposed to be completely immune to jamming when using missiles are you? some penalty must be expected."
"fofs do have a faction variant."
"i say fix their targeting instead. anyone that's ever tried using fof outside pve knows how ******ed it is, oh they have to shoot at me first, etc, etc."
"make them focus fire and shoot at target with ewari on you and in range first..."
"if that bug exists, then it should of course be fixed. i didn't know about it, but i assume \"bugs should be fixed\" is a default position. the issue at hand here is how fof missiles should be designed - the details of coding i leave to others."
"a simple af boost would be to give afs their missing 4th bonus.also your hawk suggest is damn near criminal. that you even considered suggesting the removal of the rof bonus is nothing short of sick. if the hawk only had a 5% kinetic  should be all damage types, period  bonus and no rof it'd be so horribly inferior to the kestrel that it would be best to delete the ship from the database."
"signed in general.hawk needs extra love too."
"i vote for invincible af. i love my ishkur."
"support that the af's need some love"
"i not sure what the solution to that, but i always hated the fact that every bs can bring 5 t2 warrior and easily dispatch frigate  except uber nano one that stay out of web range , when it suppose to be hard for them to kill small ship.big ship escort should be done by other player not automated drone. at least not on every ship.maybe one solution would be to remove drone from any ship except ships specialized in them.this way it will encourage other strategy then bs blob."
"if the gallente are going to have pure drone ships, then those ships should have few turret hardpoints. a good domi fitted properly can do 700+ dps using guns and drones. far as i see it, drone mechanics are good now. no need to change them."
"many players have a problem - all useful skills already at lvl5, many of less useful skills at lvl4 and no idea what to do next. skilling other races weapons/ships is an option, but maybe its about time to give some new shiny books into market to enhance horizonts in eve character evolution.for example around two months from start to get 5% into cpu  at lvl5 skill advanced signature analysys +2% to targetting speedrank: x5  basic skill is x1 prerequisites: signature analysys 5  x1 , sensor linking 5  x3 , targeting 5  x1 , multitasking 4  x3  advanced electronics +1% to cpurank: x8  basic skill is x1 prerequisites: electronics 5  x1 , electronics upgrades 5  x2 , electronics warfare 5  x2 , electronic engineering 5  x5 advanced energy system operation +1% to capacitor recharge raterank: x6  basic skill is x1 prerequisites: energy system operation 5  x1 , engineering 5  x1 , energy management 5  x3 , energy grid upgrades 5  x2 , energy emission systems 5  x2 advanced energy management +1% to capacitor capacityrank: x9  basic skill is x3 prerequisites: energy management 5  x3 , energy grid upgrades 5  x2 , electromagnetic physics 5  x5 advanced controlled bursts -2% in capacitor needs for weapon turretsrank: x8  basic skill is x2 prerequisites: controlled bursts 5  x2 , advanced weapons upgrade 5  x6 , energy management 5  x3 advanced science -1% to blueprint copy speedrank: x7  basic skill is x1 prerequisites: science 5  x1 , scientific networking 5  x3 , advanced labolatory operation 4  x8 , research project management 4  x8 advanced hull upgrades +1% to armor hitpointsrank: x8  basic skill is x2 prerequisites: hull upgrades 5  x2 , repair systems 5  x2 , mechanical engineering 5  x5 advanced accounting -2% into transaction tax reductionrank: x6  basic skill is x3 prerequisites: accounting 5  x3 , broker relations 5  x2 , trade 5  x1 , day trading 5  x1 "
"uhm... i was considerably annoyed that advanced weapon upgrades only gave a mere 2% reduction, but a skill that's stupidly long to train and only offers a 1% adjustment per level?i would never bother.higher tier skills should have a greater bonus than their lower tier precursors, not worse."
"1% in this game makes sometimes a huge differencethats why that requirements should be high. point is that if someone want to get fast addidional 1% into something - he can buy an implant for example. but if someone doesnt want to waste implant slot, he will start skilling towards advanced skills."
"i would, and i know a lot of players that would as well."
"ithis shouldn't happen for a lot of good reasons but i shall list only a few.there are many directions for the man who has everything to go to, whether it be as you said to train other races, or to train those lvl 4 skills to lvl 5, or to **** it all entirely and try something different like science and industry.the other problem will be there are already way more than enough skills for the new player to train as it is, adding further bonuses to veteran players will only increase the division between sp the sp rich and poor, old and new."
"or try other game right? eve isnt a typical mmo where you can achieve almost everything in around 2-3 months. people playing here from years, and if someone is playing so long, paying for each month of game, he deserve to get at least reasonable ways to specialize in what he want. eve shouldnt have limits in evolution, everybody can play in this game for next 5 years and get all what he want.everybody can get for example 5% into something even noobs  just buy proper implant . idea is to show alternative  more practic  ways to achieve it."
"i'm not wholly opposed to the principle, but these skills aren't the way to do it."
"this game balances newbies vs vets by giving vets more options in form of many more possible ships to fly rather than continuing to increase their power in one ship. so introducing more skills to increase the time a newbie needs to cath up when using one specific ships needs to be introduced carefully if at all."
"specifically, i think the offers for the faction modules are too expensive. faction ships, ammo, implants, and skills seem to be about right, but it's cheaper for me to buy deadspace drops off the contract system than to go through the lp store. here are some specific examples, the drops being purchased via contracts, and the faction parts being purchased from the lp store.small armor repairer:coreli c-type, meta level 11, 4 mil iskamarr navy, meta level 9, 30375 lp and 12.15 mil iskrepublic fleet, meta level 7, 23,625 lp and 9.45 mil isk1mn afterburner:gistii b-type, meta level 12, 3 mil iskrepublic fleet, meta level 8, 12000 lp and 4.8 mil iskmagnetic plating:centi c-type, meta level 11, 3 mil isktrue sansha, meta level 9, 2 mil iskamarr navy, meta level 9, 6750 lp and 2.7 mil iskrepublic fleet, meta level 8, 6000 lp and 2.4 mil iskenergized thermic membrane:true sansha, meta level 9, 3 mil iskamarr navy, meta level 9, 9000 lp and 3.6 mil iskas you can see it's often possible to buy a better module for less than the isk cost of the lp store, not even counting the pain to earn the lps and tags. i'd like to spend my lps on something other than reselling ammo. please make this possible."
"wow. you just saved me money, like geico.edit: lp stores suck. alot.with repetitive missions, crappy story lines, poopy drops..... its all sucky.thumbs up"
"i'd also like to point out many implants being cheaper on the market ; "
"bingo!"
"agreed.and everyone is crying that missions are too profitable in another thread.what, other than faction ammo & poorly balanced implants, in lp stores is even worth the effort of cashing in your lp?nothing"
"i haven't bought anything directly from the lp store, other than ammo, in ages. i looked at the cost to me, looked at contracts/market and saw i'd be subsidizing others' purchases from my 'loyalty'.instead, i bought from some guy who seemed to treat his lp like they were free.lp are supposed to be worth using, dammit. sure i can sell faction ammo forever given my stock of lp, but variety would be nice.and then there's the ridiculous tag requirements for gear  that essentially require you to irredeemably destroy your standings with other factions to acquire . but that's another post.signed."
"for me, the only interesting thing in lp stores so far is faction ammo.everything else just isn't worth the hassle - especially not the hassle of trying to find and buy the correct tags. in the time it takes me to do that, i could probably find the average officer spawn twice."
"if it was possible to introduce a supply vs demand mechanic to the lp store that would make it very interesting.the more it's bought over x time the higher it deviates from the base price. vice versa."
"nicely presented i like it ; as much as i hate misisons the lp store cld use some love in this area.."
"well, there are the cnrs seriously, for non caldari lp stores are : "
"it wouldn't be hard to change prices, either. it might take time to research prices out to balance, but it'd be much easier than most suggestions to implement."
"i was wondering, why there's no market forces at work here. well, one \"ingredient\" is  tag prices  but its share is very limited.if an item is not demanded, it should have its requirements decline steadily  and ofc analogue with higher demand .this will then lead to 0.0 mission running being equally rewarding, aka fair, regardless of your standing: halos, being so cheap, would reach the same lp/isk as crystals eventually. sister recon launchers would not have to suffer from their \"bigger\" counterpart. thukker large shield extender, ore strip miner would be sold for what they're worth.\"but nobody runs missions for ore\" - well... this chicken/egg discussion is none at all; so what...? as soon as the strip miner is worth all those courier missions, people will go for them. if somebody makes a fortune with thukker shield extenders, you can be sure he'll have lots of competition within a month that will drive isk prices down and lp costs up.\"it might be worthwhile to just refine stuff, that can't be right\" - i don't mind, contrary to npc shuttles/civ abs you still have to do something for it. if the item is utter crap and only costs 1 lp, so be it. the lp store is nothing more than an extension of the loot tables anyway. you refine your crap loot, why not refine some crap lp rewards.ccp may still tell us, how fast each item declines/rises by allowing a preset amount of items per day  relative to weekly avg lp trades blahblah  - very much like loot tables/drop rates. but i'm not even sure that'll be necessary; it merely influences the response time of the market. unless you're allowing 10000 domi webs per hour and the lp costs crash to 1 lp ofc.it is these pools of ingredients, as i like to call them, that limit the variety and freedom of fitting as well as mission running. i am a  non-npc  null-sec dweller and i may not run missions, but i am supposed to buy this stuff - and i would:- i'd like an ay-2  5% agility  imp but ccp says it has to cost exactly the same as the cy-2  5% base speed - i'd fit some \"simple\" republic fleet large shield booster for pvp  scimitar & powergrid - 'nuff said  but its lp costs are blown out of proportion by rep.fleet ammo, warp disruptor and probably the stabber.lp store should be a sandbox aswell"
"bring back the nexus chip npc buyers!"
"having seen the sheer number of insta undock haulers in areas like gusandall, i have to concur with the op. something needs to be done about this."
"there are many problems with macros, and bots, and i beleive ccp should be more proactive in stopping these and isk farming for rlm, i do not think removing things from the game that a legimate player can use for their benefit is the answer. placing the example 3 agents in the same station into different stations is a valid option, removing them is not.every character with the name lgfkjusd should be permently flagged, and watched like a hawk, monitored for eula violations. these abuses can be corrected, by ccp, using tools that are available and should be inplace, it really is their lack of action that allows things like this to continue.a solution that does not impact legitimate players is always preferable."
"i'll agree, my original idea is at the extreme side of things but like you say something needs to be done. either ccp needs to take a hard line against the problem or give the players the tools to deal with it."
"from your op:your original claim was that they could not be eradicated, even by people trying to do so. i find that to be nonsensical. afk haulers are trivial to pop, and courier missions require standings, collateral, and ships. start killing and podding them, and you start inflicting actual damage on their operations. i never claimed gatecamping was a fun activity - it's probably the third most boring activity in eve, behind station camping and mining - but if you partake in it then you can break open their haulers to see what goodies are inside with very little difficulty. hey, if they're macroing to play 23/7, beat the **** out of them with a banhammer. i'm all for that. but doing courier missions is hardly an exploit - on the contrary, it's essentially a joke. the money, standings, and lp gains are terrible compared to combat missions, and flying through lowsec to do them instead of being safely enclosed in highsec is courting unnecessary risk. but hey, if macro-players choose to use them, then they should be dealt with just like any other macro-player. and if you want a \"reasonable solution\", here's one for you: punish the guilty, don't punish the innocent."
"lol. o/fix macro."
"i'd really like to see this in.one really big issue that this strikes me as causing is a problem with t1 ship insurance. it's currently the case that we can't insure t2 ships because of the t2 component market. you can't pay out an accurate insurance on mineral value when the minerals aren't the base cost, the components are, and those components are player-driven.thus either t1 components are provided straight by npcs, in which case what was the point, or we have to change insurance.rubbish. i'm a new industrialist, and it didn't put me off at all. a typical wait time on an me slot is about 20 days. in that time i've mined, built, pvped, done a fair amount of real life work, it's not a big deal."
"remove insurance and remove t1 loot saved for named items.let the market, be a true market."
"i don't totally like this idea, but industry need to be made better, so i will support a throughout restructuration of industry and mining. if that is done i will even support the removal of t1 loot from missions. so tentative support for a complete overhaul of industry and mining.good idea with the exception of the bpc dropped from rats. they could drop \"damaged\" versions that you need to repair, but how often you run around with bpc in your cargo?a occasional bpc that a special rat was carrying is ok, even if i would prefer them to drop from structures in exploration sites, but it becoming a everyday event is absurd."
"i actually see this as a way to make getting into production easier. beginners will now only have to buy a small handful of bpos that are much cheaper then a ship bpo. even buying a simple cruiser bpo is out of the question for beginners, were as buying a few cheap component bpos then selling them to the bigger builders. you seem to forget that these components could be bought and sold on the market. one person doesn't  shouldn't  need to do it all on their own.if a beginer wishes to build his own ship, then he could buy a bpc and then buy the components off the market or use his own bpo library, much like it already happens."
"as a citizen of providence, i fully endorse this idea."
"remove the aggression timer for engaging a friendly  corp/alliance .if you web your slow buddy in the freighter or cap ship so he can warp away should not earn the webbing buddy aggro if he's in the same corp/alliance. if you're popping shots off at a corp mate to test your damage and his tank  or flat out killing him  should not earn an aggro timer."
"i understand this is a form of petition. if the council did opinion polls on a proposal to test the measure of support across the spectrum of players, the system as designed would be good.however, as implemented, some very bad ideas could meet the requirement for discussion. many items that have little or no support if the eve community at large. to help the council get a better idea of the level of support, there should be poll, or a 3 option choice. yes   i support  , abstain/present i have seen the question and have no strong opinions either way, and no, i do not support the idea.this would allow the council to set priorities in disscussions about a pettition. a 300 positive, 2 abstain and 10 opposed should get higher priority than a question with 300 for, 200 abstain and 299 opposed."
"1.0"
"in the real world if your concened that a large armada of ships is going to invade your shores they tend to get mined to ensure this doesnt happen why cant we do this in evethe bomb can be droped in space with industrial ships and require anchoring the bomb can be configured with a gause limit so a cetain amout of mass in local space will trigger it to explodethe cheapest bombs could be just as much a liability to the side using them the very advanced mines could also cloack making them a serious threatthis also opens up a new ship class the mine sweeper if ccp wanted to go down that route or if mines started to be used to muchwouldnt it be great to leed an enemy fleet in to a trap with enough determination 1 man could destroy an entire enemy fleet by secretly mining it and luring them to the spot another usefull tool to break up the fleet blobs could be deployable beacons that emit false signatures on scan ie it could be detected as an industrial ship while in reality there is only a flashing light in space these could be used to make traps and to confuse persuing enemysalso miners could use them to discourage visitors by deploying them around there shipplease let me know what you think its just the kernal of an idea but im sure it could be developed im intrested to se you guys explore the ramifications of these wapons in eve"
"tbh anyone who can't look at a little full-frontal nudity shouldn't be playing mogs, sorry. they should be at school, our out in the back yard getting grass stains.and they certainly shouldn't be playing eve."
"full frontal nudity?where!?"
"this is a game for adults? you are telling ccp who their own game is for? yikes, ok dude. i personally think ccp should decide who their own game that their created is for, but hey i guess that is just a crazy idea i have."
"ccp should decide what their own game is for in a forum for communicating with customers?do u even know what assembly hall is? lol idiot"
"it's very easy to insult most aspects of a person without resorting to profanity. honestly, aside from the awful cross-posting, the only issue here is why your gag wasn't longer.edit: also not swearing in public channels helps. private ones might be different, but public space is kept clean."
"i don't understand this \"resorting to profanity\". what is profanity other than a way to insult aspects of a person?"
"profanity is but one way to insult people. it is also disallowed by most people in conversation, as well as by ccp in the forums  profanity filter at work.  i'm fairly sure that they don't care for swearing in private channels either, but just can't be bothered to look for anything there."
"i should be able to \"gag\"/\"mute\" people just to avoid their smacktalk in my local. wait, is'nt that already called blacklisting?"
"profanity is the fallback position of those that lack communication skills. good, intelligent conversation has no need for profanity. in open forums there should be a minimum of restraint show by the participants, those that cross the line are mostly disruptive, annoying or attention seeking. they do not add to the discussion. and as not everyone agrees that profanity is harmless, it should not be allowed in the most public areas.what you want to do and say in private channels and forums, is entirely up to you, and there should be no restriction except those agreed to by the participants.i beleive in free speach, but as you do not have the right to yell \"fire\" in a crowded theater, reasonable limitations in public areas are sometimes necessary.f*** y** b****, may be accecptible amoung a group of teenage boys, but saying the same in a public forum, and directing it to someone who may be a sexual assault victim, is not. just because the annonimity allows us to be cras and rude, does not mean we have to be, or be forced to accecpt such behavior."
"let me guess, a gm gagged you for for harassing someone?"
"hell no.we already can't hit speed fits. missles are already lolz in fleet 0.0 combat compared to beams/guns at anything past middle ranges and you want to nerf missile users further?sure, as long as you add anti-laser, anti-hybrid, anti-arty, etc etc.so stop already."
"you neglected:rigs & implants to improve all weapons.missiles always hit  when their target is slow enough to be hit  and always discharge max damage.also:ecm - countered by f.o.f.  surprisingly effective at close to mid range, or long with cruise . actually, all ew is countered by f.o.f., but they definately need some buffing.smart bombs - are not. they can just as easily wipe out the equipping ship's own drones/missiles/support/buddies. they also get the ship killed all too easily and cannot be used in empire space  unless you can lure the target to a planet/moon/belt that doesn't have a damn can anchored at it ."
"the discussion is not regarding rigs or implants. not to mention rigs and implants are relatively even across the board for both turrets and missiles. as such there is no reason to discuss them.this is completely, totally, and patently false. if you truly believe your above statement then you are totally out of touch. not to mention, missiles also have flight time.yes, fofs counter ecm, but not effectively. fofs are rarely a threat and are more of a utility item. however, i'll grant your point as valid.also completely false. the comparison is missiles and turrets. smart bombs are a very effective counter to missiles, and pose no problems in empire unless being armed by a total imbecile. smart bombs do not counter turrets, they do counter missiles  and drones .regardless, my list still stands as perfectly valid with the possible mediocre exception of fof missiles as a rather impotent response to ecm."
"yeah, 150-km fleet blobs prefer turrets, because of flight time. i'm well aware of that. however, it totally misses the point. missiles and turrets are fundamentally different weapon systems, and should be treated as such. turrets are better sometimes, and missiles are better sometimes. personally, i think missiles get the short end of that stick most of the time, and need some boosts to compensate for it, especially at the level of capital ships. the torpedo changes were a good start, but not enough. however, we have in defenders a fairly well-supported weapon that is completely and totally useless in player hands. it's interesting, flavourful, and distinctive, but unfortunately none of that matters when the best use of defender missiles is as reprocessables. fix defenders to be bad-but-usable, instead of running-joke, and if that makes missiles worse then improve them accordingly. let's not forget the \"get closer to him\" method of countering turrets. being out-tracked is a countermeasure too, and a pretty good one. simple enumeration of buffs and nerfs, and comparing the length of the lists, is a horrible heuristic for determining the relative merits of weapon classes."
"current defenders are indeed a running joke, as are fofs if only slightly less so.buff both systems to be credible countermeasure & threat and you'll actually see them doing something other than being refined.as for smartbombs... i've used them in empire 1.0 space and wiped out small frig fleets, but it does take a good bit of careful wisdom as to their deployment. but - yes, they can destroy the launching vessel's own missiles and drones, and if an attacker does not launch all of their missiles simultaneously a smartbomb is ineffective against them."
"definite thumbs up from me"
"well, we can all agree to disagree."
"all valid examinations of canon material and actual racial schemes based around the ship designs the races use rather than the modules they get bonuses for.unfortunately if the curse and huginn were suddenly inverted bonus-wise the eve playerbase would have an absolute sh*tfit.i agree with your assessments, but don't see how they could be implemented."
"a dedicated exploration ship should be available, but i think it shoudnt come with no combat bonus's, and should require lots of science and combat skills to use  plus the spaceship command skills too . the high skill req's would make it unavailable to newer players and allow specilization in that area  as appose to an interest . also if it has exploration bonus's with no combat bonus's it wouldnt be too useful in pvp which hopefully would make hunting it and being hunted quite exiting.just my two isk's"
"i am not a new player player myself i've been on here for a few years. i was just rather concerned about alot of the complaints that my friends who *would've played the game brought up. and i like how you explained it all and such and i agree just what i still would like to see implemented are better ways of getting new players involved quickly rather than it taking forever. yes it is very different from many other games which is its boon and its bane. i think though that if just abit more immediate action would keep more people interested early on."
"just sit in npc chat for a litle bit. and you will see all the crap that fills these new players heads. and the crap is coming from these guys/gals that has never left the npc system let a lone ventured anywhere outside of their comfort zone. having noob zones would compound this i think. getting them involved earlier and quicker has little to do with overall sp and ooh shiny toys tbh. it has more to do with being social and able to work with in the system. there are plenty of noobs that flourish much faster if they take the initiative. the ones that struggle are usually the ones not willing to put the effort in."
"no but we want space whales.honest."
"signed as a phoenix pilot."
"/signed"
"i would love to see the implant *fixed*. i've had one plugged in since i could afford to  read: saved 250m  buy one on contract. given that there were 4 flavours listed to be released, i figured  like the others i spoke to  that they'd each affect one of the 4 variables in invention: improve chances, improve me, improve pe or improve runs. if the eventual solution is just to reduce invention time, i want my money back. i would never have bought the implant if it just sped up time to attempt inventions. a large number of my inventions  and proportion of invention time have to wait for me to get home from work before being delivered, and making it drop a little earlier wouldn't be any use. since i don't bother with the hardwirings that decrease copy, manufacture or research time, why would i bother with one for invention???actually, just getting my money back now, so i can reinvest it in a useful hardwiring, would be great. dan"
"tbh a +me implant would be much more logical, if they're unwilling to add +success like they first promised. i'd rather wait the extra time and have a bpc that's going to cost less to produce.but some sort of answer is required, so supported."
"i support this."
"/support"
"fully support it. perhaps have an indicator in station gui where it says \"port percentage used\" - so if you see that north exit is at 56% capacity, while south exit is at 87% capacity, then you choose north exit."
"yes... i agree with the concept, ships should be more spread out when they come out of the station.and ships should not be stuck trying to align when they exit a station... a freighter has to spend minutes slowing down and aligning to get away from a station, typically 3-5 minutes unless there's a handy object ahead to warp to."
"signed"
"signed this is not acceptable way to increase prices while not increaseing server performance. ive been playing for yrs and have several accounts and all of them will be offline monday. i wont be back for some time its just not worth the isk to pay for this game.yes i said isk because ive been paying with isk for the last year to play now. with these changes i cant afford it and my gtc supplier wont bye the new 60 day ones and if he did there just not worth the isk that there asking for them. i will be back but it will take some time so my 3 accounts will go inactive for the time being. goodluck in there adventures and letts hope something comes from this brittany england signing out"
"i stopped reading after page 1.i like the idea - a lot. the orignal idea minus the whole \"is this system popuated\" answer. i don't want to know if there's people in the system besides my gang.oh and ps: i'm currently a empire hugger raising noobies - but i've also spent time in other 0.0 allainces. i think to bring the thrill back to this game - local needs to go. or at least become delayed.i'm not hugging empire for safty - becuase almost every night i leave with just me and a mate looking for a fight.a fight from anyone - come on anyone! but they all run. they all run! before we even see them, they run!"
"/not signed."
"for the first point - good, it brings people together.second, *******s. no idea where you're getting that from.third - good.however, there is a fourth point - these large alliances will have to spend more resources  people  on maintaining the security of their systems, which means they have less resources available for expansion. the borders will shrink, and there will be more open space for younger, smaller alliances. at the very least they'd need a pilot in each system, preferably one on each gate, just keeping an eye on things. or, if a pos system scanner module comes out  which i support, does the same thing as the ship scanner but has massive range and resolution  then it again forces them to withdraw from the borders and start maintaining their infrastructre, or consolodating it from their capital out. all good things in my view."
"itt: idiots...i'm sorry, but just because some people cant catch ratters, or get a fight from people unready/willing to fight them isnt cause to remove one of the oldest game features 'cus i cant kill that guy'main posts were tl;dr, but i gather you were trying for a fleet battle and no one wanted to engage you. try and think of something that wont alter the game for your temporary adhd problems.option 1: remove the ability to talk in local - how many times have you just mashed the local bar to just show chars? it also cuts down on server load, far more than spamming the scanner, remember goons spamming 'fofofofofofo' in local? yeah, well then.option 2:  as i read somewhere else in the post  make the scanner scan at intervals and make it about 40au...considering most systems are that size or larger.---option 1 would be my suggestion as it is less stressful on the server, but  now unless youre completely oblivious to alliance intel channels and their uses - this should make an iota os sense  when the enemy is moving a fleet through your space, how can you tell how many or what alliance, if they rename their ships to [sca] **** or [star] **** - its gonna mess up your ability to distinguish whos who, and end up saying 'are you the mega? no? the mael? no...?'..........'so,' you say, 'post recons all over!'. yeah, cus we all have 40+ recon/cov ops pilots all gagging to sit on a gate solo for hours....you cannot expect people on fleet moves, mining ops, or guarding them in the next system to sit there spamming scanner - or just watching it tick over...local will suffice it isnt a massive problem, its just inconvenient sometimes when you want a fight."
"at a time when folks still scream that there are not enough people in 0.0 and that the load on the empire servers is to high this would be disastrous.you would get fewer people going to 0.0more people would hang in empire.this is a game, ship sensors commonly in science fiction can detect ships system wide to even systems away. i see local as an expansion of that same sci fi mechanic.even if you did get it removed the info most likely would still be sent to your computer in order for the server to handle locations. someone would just write a third party program that still gave them local and their corp/alliance, thus giving an unfair advantage to them.in the skies above the world today we track every plane so long as their locater beacon is working. rather than the complete removal of local introduce a new rig that when installed removes you from local. it should be a fairly large calibration probably around 150 to 200. it accomplishes in some sense the same thing but without removing everyone and thus giving some semblance of safety so that droves don't stay in empire."
"\"if\" the jump gates are maned, should'nt local be reduced to \"so and so entered systems 20 mins ago, and has not been reported leaving the system.\"or a general warning...\"attention all pilots! a wanted pilot by the name of so and so has entered system at this time!\" and that is all that is used.i agree 'local' chat has alot of problems...but removing it from the game completly is just wrong.like it or not...not everyone is playing this game for combative pvp. and adding yet more things to do while playing a game is a drawback to people wanting to just play for a couple of hours a day."
"why is this failed idea keep being brought up, time and time again? removing local will increase the need for alts to sit their all day and scan gates constantly, because to have secure space, you will need to know who is in your space. i am sorry, but removing local will break the game, hurt established 0.0 alliances, and will give unlimited power to invading forces.jade... let this dreamworld die..."
"/signedand the prox. alerts are a great balance. do it ccp!"
"just read this paragraph when i saw you posted a wall of unrelevant rp text. your idea is fail. haven't you got your own forum for carebear stellar managment issues?"
"first off, i'm pretty sure everyone has to train for a cruiser at some point. they can skip a destroyer, or a hac, or something like that. but to get from frigates to bs, you have to have cruisers.as for veld... there are already ships that allow rookie miners to get at veld... they're called mining frigates.there's no way you can expect a rookie to grind their way into a barge or exhumer just so they can get at 0.9 ores. unless you are talking about a hulk, which is geared towards all ores except mercoxit.t2 strips, with t2 crystals... that's how you get at veld faster.as for mercoxit, if it is necessary for building any kind of t2 items... i still think it's a waste of an entire ship.maybe it's the care bear in me, but i try to rationalize most of the ideas that get suggested around here. \"why would people living day to day in a world like this... come up with an idea like...\"so i really don't see designing a ship just to collect veld. i really don't see why they would have designed a ship just to collect mercoxit either. just put deep core lasers onto a hulk, and you'd imagine that 3x lasers could work better than the 1x on a skiff. perhaps they could have taken all the gizmos and gadgets inside the skiff, and made a simple mining laser upgrade to do the same thing? then the hulk could go to work, and the procurer/skiff could find a real use in life."
"nope, everything over frigates is optional. not everyone picks up combat ship skills.some pick up industrial and mining ships. and that is it.and by extension of that reasoning there should be no focused ships at all. you should just need a module and pick the chassis you want..."
"yeah, the whole argument about what people train to use what is completely pointless.i am an industrialist, i do not fight, i do not support fights, i do not scout. i build and i sell, that is all.i have bs 5, but that was before barges, so i could mine. now i have exhumers 5, all the relevant reprocessing skills, manufacturing skills... i essentially have industry maxed out.how much gunnery do i have trained?500 points. yes, five hundred. so, don't expect that we industrialists cross-train to pew pew. some do, some dont, just like you pew pew bloodletters crosstrain to mine/build.that said; yes, the procuror is broken in a hopeless way. a few ideas presented have some merit, but i especially find the 't1 empire rorqual' idea to be a pretty decent one  1 factory slot to compress ores at 2x the time, plus the 1 mining laser . no gang bonuses or whatnot, just the compression slot. it would make this crappy miner a decent fleet-mining support ship that can do it's own little bit of mining."
"i agree that the procurer needs some work. it can easily be outmined by a retriever, scythe, osprey, etc  pretty much any dedicated mining ship other than the mining frigates ."
"the only time a procurer is useful is in the time it takes to train for the retriever - hardly an endorsement for buying this thing. it definitely needs a look. may i suggest:1. increase the \"generous drone bay\"* to 15m3, at least then you can go into systems below 0.8 2. increase the cargohold to 2000m3. at the moment you can't even hold two cycles worth of ore.it'll still suck, but not quite as badly *actual quote from it's description!"
"a little more damage, a lot less cost.i wouldn't pay more than a million for a bomb."
"supported! space whales are neat!"
"would like to know when they gonna to fix. if they gonna fix."
"yeah it's always annoying when the drones get stuck on each other. i'd love to see that fixed"
"it can be a total pain to be taking on quite a few ships only you have one drone wonder off and start aggressing a bs and getting popped for it."
"i've seen both bugs too, but mainly the first one. it doesn't happen often, but when it does it can be very annoying, and often costly. my domi also thanks you for bringing this up."
"wow. i in no way support this thread, or even most of the arguments in it, for or against.missioning is not completely safe, and it is not incredibly dangerous either. it is a nice way for casual players to participate in the eve universe. i know that some players in this thread fully support every casual player being banned from the game or leaving, but i for one like ccp to have the benefit of their full subscription money and them only using the server load caused by them playing 1-2 hours a day. using the reasoning that casual players leaving would improve lag and performance for everyone, the hard-core players should all be banned. 12 hours a day for 1 person? multiple accounts? ban one of these people and its like cutting the server load by 20-30 carebears. it doesn't sound as nice when put the other way, does it? missions serve a valuable role in eve, and should continue. slight tweaks will always need to be made, but a nerf of these proportions is a bad idea."
"actually it was an useful comment since it perfectly illustrated why some people grossly underestimate mission income, irony or not. maybe you need to read the posts, not just skim them through as i said above in my blockade example, 40min for mission, then 20min for salvage, hour together. typically when i clock my missions, the time is from accepting to mission up to unloading my hauler. this was also addressed above, single character only."
"you know nothing about mining/ratting in 0.0 to know how it compares. while you have to do the occasional storyline haul crap for 2 hours. ratters in 0.0 have to safe up and cloak when hostiles enter system, netting them no income at all potientally for hours. the lvl 4 mission rewards in highsec are easily comparable to the ratting rewards in 0.0. imho that means that either lvl 4 missions are too rewarding, or 0.0 ratting rewards too little. i lean for the latter, and dont want to see lvl 4's nerfed but i want to see our rewards in 0.0 and lowsec increased appropriately."
"so your main argument for missions paying crap is that you insist on doing the the worst possible ones?i think you said it best yourself at the start of your post:if you insist on doing your missions in the most obvious and populated spots, you're taking a risk. there are corners of space here and there though, where your risk of being ganked is practically non-existant. you're just being lazy or stupid. considering what you've written in this thread, i'm seriously beginning to doubt the validity of your  self proclaimed  mission running credentials. either you're actually clueless, or you're blatantly lying and bending facts to suit your agenda."
"if u do the 0.0 ratting right than lvl4 is just comparable if u fit a 10+bil worth ship to do lvl4 missions. just in this case u can make same isk as with 0.0 ratting. i dont spend so much ona missioning ship because i like more to gank them :  but i tried missions and long enough 0.0 too and in 0.0 i made much easier a lot more isk with the same investment"
"for me, it's because i always get ganked in low sec. it's only since i trained up a buzzard and got a cov ops cloak that i've been able to run through low sec on courier missions when i have to  and i've been pod killed once while flying that as well . i think before i got the cloaking ship my average was something like 1 ship lost every 3 jumps. it's like i have a big target painted on the side of every ship i buy.fact is, i suck at pvp, and i hate doing it as well so i'm not really willing to practice to get better. i play games to relax, not get wound up on adrenalin. i accept that eve is not the best game to do this in, but high sec offers comparative safety  yes there are dangers, but i only tun a t2 equipped ship and use slightly sub-optimal agents, and so far have not been bothered by suiciders . oh, and i run missions in a mega, angels ones included : simply - i die in low sec, so i live in high sec.all i'm doing is having a little fun in the eve universe, not bothering anyone else. i don't expect the pvp guys to understand why i like it - in the same way i don't understand why they like to play the way they do. i am happy being an empire carebear, i have no desire whatsoever to become one of the 'eve elite', or even progress further in the game than where i am now - i'm happy with where i am."
"bad idea i think.nerfing current missions/removing them would take more programming that could be better utilized in other areas. it would also alienate part of the player base.rather than nerfing hi sec, they need to boost low sec and 0.0 some."
"hahahaha good troll. now stop trolling, this is a somewhat serious discussion."
"personal attacks are not permitted on the forums. ~saint"
"where did you get the isk for a dreadnaught skillbook? where the hell are you going to get the isk for a dreadnought? you can't get it running lvl 4 missions, because they pay crap all. right? right? or maybe you should take a look at what you have written here and see that this here shoots down every argument you have made in this thread.lvl 4 missions in high sec pays too much. proof above. so you have ratted in 0.0 for 12 hours a day, 7 days a week then? really? may i ask, do you work at all?but you don't have to do them, like you said in your post... my arguments win. you don't know what you're talking about. you have proven time and again that you have no idea how things work. now, stop posting."
"except that lvl 4 missions pay better than most other professions, and even more if you take into account that they are virtually risk free. or are you standing by your statement that high sec is like the wild wild west?sorry to hear about your accident, but don't you think you could be doing more productive things than playing a computer game for 12 hours a day?no, it's not ironic. what i have stated in this thread has all been true. what you have stated has on multiple occasions turned out to be completely false."
"you're joking! someone got ganked in highsec? it's just like the battle of little big horn! wicky-wild-wild west! k. i like how you tried to make me feel guilty about your accident by comparing me to the one who hit you, though. how about citing examples where i have been mistaken? i can do the same with your posts... might have to do several posts due to character number limitations."
"i know. it's still funny that you go all \"omg its a warzone! teh sky is falling!\" over a friggin' suicide gank.yes. they happen to people who run around in pimped ass ships. the value of these mods make the ships a prime target for organized suicide gankers.no, actually the fact that mission runners get suicide ganked is because of the pimped mods they are able to afford from either their boat-load of isk, or the lp store. otherwise they wouldn't get ganked. it's not for ****s and giggles, you know. it's because it's profitable for the gankers that they gank.yes, i could too. i could also ss a **** load of people getting killed in low- and nul-sec. no, it's not a question of me not being able to \"see it\". it's a question of you living in a bubble, completely oblivious to what happens outside of your cozy little corner of high sec. people die everywhere, every day. people die a lot more in nul- and 0.0. the people who die in high sec are either war targets or stupid. i have yet to see someone get killed in high sec  again, barring war targets  who wasn't a complete idiot and did a costly mistake. high sec is 99% safe. missions in 99% safe space pay too much. these missions need to be brought in line with other professions such as mining, piracy  yes it's a profession, ask ccp , 0.0 ratting, industry, trading and exploration."
"well your posts are at least consistent. wildly untrue and exaggerated."
"my mission raven is all t2, with t1 rigs. it's worth a total of maybe 40m after insurance. i do angel extravaganza  including bonus room  in about 1.5 hours with this fit. i have never even had an attempted suicide gank, because a few t2 mods aren't worth it to a suicide ganker who stands to lose sec status for killing me. no one needs faction stuff to do lvl 4 missions. if someone is worried about suicide ganks, then that person definately shouldn't use faction stuff. they are not that much better, and if you can fly your ship well, they are not needed.not really a mission noob. what you posted here is an example of over-pimping your ship. you don't need that gist booster. if you purchase it, it is either because you want to pimp, or because you want to be able to run your mission while afk. neither is a good reason. also, suicide ganking is heading to nerf-ville, unfortunately, so soon you won't even have that to worry about. high sec is also supposed to be dangerous. just not as dangerous. it is pretty well balanced now. there is no suicide ganking epidemic, and lvl 4 missions pay too damn much. i say this even though my isk comes from lvl 4 mission running.continued..."
"no, my arguments are all valid, taken from personal experience, and backed up by the devs and other players. your arguments are all falacies, dreamt up by you, ignored by most, and argued against by the rest. you might as well concede, because the only thing you have managed to do in your tirades here is to paint yourself out as the biggest nub in eve, and a huge target on your back to boot."
"another example of you failing to read. i clearly said high sec has **** pay because of it's little risk, that's equal to if not the same as not as dangerous? you're proving my point that you're an idiot! what personal experience? you're running missions for gallente's federal intelligence office. of course your experience will not reflect this, as out your way no one gives a **** about you. 80% of mission runners, run caldari. their standings will be so high from pre-ganking it will be difficult if not nigh on impossible to turn back and run another faction, atleast not without considerable time and effort and loss of earnings. your experience does not include being in the wild wild west, so you cannot witness the epidemic, thus you are in no posiiton to comment! as for your comments backed up by the devs? they are clearly in my favour if they are looking into suicide ganking? the thing you claim is an imagination? loli can live with my arguments being ignored by most, because most people are idiots. **** happens"
"high sec should have **** pay because of the small amount of risk there. the problem, which is being discussed in this thread, is that it doesn't have **** pay, and no matter how many times you say it does doesn't make it so. high sec level 4 missions are too profitable. that is evidenced by the fact that even people with 0.0 access opt to run lvl 4 missions instead, because they are safer and pays just as much. your reply to my post shows that you didn't really understand my response. you argued that high sec pays little because it's supposed to be safe. i argued that high sec isn't supposed to be safe. in this post i also argue that high sec missions don't pay little. so, you're wrong on both accounts. congratulations.please explain what you mean by this? are you telling me the gallente federation cares less of it's inhabitants than the caldari state does? if so, what makes you say that? and why the hell are you roleplaying?who the hell are you arguing with? i never made any claim that mission runners should switch faction. earlier in the thread someone made a point that if they did switch factions, it would solve a lot of their problems, but our little exchange here has had nothing to do with it. are you hearing voices, because i promise you, i'm not saying more stuff to you than what is in my posts.so, where is the wild-wild-west? motsu? oh, i've been there plenty of times. this character isn't running missions anymore. i've got an alt doing that for me. i'll tell you what: you spend a weekend in doril and i'll spend a weekend in motsu. we can both run missions or rat. let's see who dies the most amount of times. i said my arguments are backed up by the devs, doofus. like, i am repeating what devs have stated before. i am also able to read the player guide and the knowledgebase, so i don't make stupid mistakes on the forums, you know, like you do continuously. ever thought that it might be you who are the idiot? i mean, if everyone else is saying one thing, and you are the only one saying something else...ah, **** it! you're probably jesus or something. at least in your mother's eyes."
"you have completely misunderstood everything i said. i officially give up, now **** off!"
"good because you arguements and facts are crap."
"hello there. i believe it is in fact you that doesn't understand his response. i think what leglt is saying, as you're nowhere near the part's of high-sec space where the suicide ganking is rampant, you've not experienced the horror and are thus unable to accurately discredit his comments. because most people run caldari misisons, they're grouped together, which makes the majority of gankable targets in a large group and it would not be worth the effort for a suicide ganker to go to gallente space, with less people there and less opportunities.i believe what leglt meant here is that assuming you understood what he was saying, that to avoid being in the areas of high-sec space where there is a high-risk of loss, people would be unable to spread out across high-sec to other agents for other factions to avoid the gankings, because they run caldari for so long it would ruin their reputations with other factions in safer areas of high-sec, making it difficult to migrate.i think this argument shows you haven't been to motsu, or if you had atleast not within the past 3 months. motsu is a lagfest, simply because it's got the highest quality l4 agent for the most popular corporation there. if you have been there, you would do the death may not occur in motsu but in the surrounding gates and systems due to the excessive lag. if the suicide gankers don't kill you there, the lag might looking through your posts i can't see any evidence of dev's backing up many of your claims, if any. what i can see though are the dev's accept suicide ganking is becoming a real problem which needs to be addressed? or maybe i'm missing something?i don't know you, but if you ever had any credibility at all it was just lost with a your-mother insult, sorry.continued..."
"i personally don't support the op's argument at all for several reaons.first of all, it appears to be an assumption from the general community that mission runners are rolling in the isk. maybe this is the case, but i don't believe it is because missions in general pay out any more money than any other medium. i believe it's because with people like leglt having no lives, they farm them and farm them, then farm them some more. they don't have the isk sink of losing ships to consentual pvp nor any limits on their time to stop them farming again and again. if other people equally had no life, they could farm an equal amount, using missions or alternative methods. as some of us like to have sex with our women and actually leave the house sometimes, it limits our time to farm isk and during our limited free time we would rather be blowing something up.i think really the heart of the issue is people are jealous in some way of no lifers because they can make money when we have a rl to get on with, that's all it boils down to. ratters can earn good money with some risk, mission runners can earn money with some risks too, though the risk does increase for caldari. if you put in the hours, it can be yours too. i don't think people should be penalised for choosing to spend their time earning isk. if you just cripple missions, which is not necessary, then those people may leave the game, yes, but they may also move to other means to farm isk and yet again a cry for nerf will be heard elsewhere.it is for these reasons i cannot support the op in any shape or form and i would think that anyone with a decent head on their shoulders would agree."
"hello back. are you legit's mother? i have been to motsu. the reason it's laggy is entirelly the fault of the stupid mission runners there. i personally don't run missions there because i'm not stupid.not really difficult. it's just that people are cheap bastards and, as legit eloquently put it  but this time including himself , idiots. people don't realise that a lower quality agent in a system with less lag can very well get you more isk/h than a high quality agent in a system with lots of lag. caldari navy has agents scattered all over. you just have to be willing to cope with a q10 agent instead of a q20. no, what it shows is that legit has never been outside high sec, despite his claims to the contrary. motsu, despite its problems, is not comparable to the west, wild-wild or otherwise.you're missing quite a bit. what i'm missing is why you are throwing yourself into a conversation that is over. legit has crawled back under his stone  in high sec , and i doubt he's coming back. that's not a your-mother insult. a your-mother insult would go like this:your mother is so fat, geologists are looking for the kt-asteroid crater on her back.now, that's a your-mother insult.continued..."
"no, they really pay out a lot. i am a pirate by trade, but i use a mission running alt to be able to afford it. piracy doesn't really pay anymore in this game. i used to mine a lot. i don't do that anymore, because in my missions, beside the bounties, rewards, standings and loyalty points, i also get enough loot to melt down to raw minerals. i get more minerals this way per hour than i do mining.this is all true, but it is all legit's problem, not anyone else's. in this thread we are discussing the realities of high sec missions. while some people might actually be jealous, this misses the point completely. the point is that i and many others calling for this nerf are running this kind of missions. we do this because it is the easiest, fastest and safest way to get loads of isk. most of us have come to realise that this method of aquiring isk is in dire need of a nerf, because it threatens many other professions in eve. what's the point of being a miner anymore? you get more minerals running missions. miners know this. they have been calling for loot nerfs to missions for years.anyone with a decent head on their shoulders would educate themselves more about what is actually being discussed here. there is a real problem. it has nothing to do with us being jealous. it has nothing to do with mission runners having no life. it has to do with an imbalanced mechanic within the game.btw, are you actually legit's alt by any chance at all?"
"bump"
"hmm, a change like that proposed could have a massive impact on the markets, i am not saying it shouldnt be looked at, what i am saying is that it should be looked at under a microscope, thoroughly discussed and analysed .theres an economist on staff now, how about he examines the proposals and gives some predictions of its impact to the markets?"
"i must confess i don't really see the reasoning behind this proposal. i do run missions from time to time, but most of what i do is trade in the tech 1 market. while not all tech 1 modules are money makers, i've managed to a niche just fine and make a decent  though not extravigant  living. while i agree that the rewards in missions might be too high, i don't think altering the loot tables is the way to go. as a new player, getting lots loot in missions was a major draw for me  even though a lot of the loot turned out to be useless  and i'd hate to see the loot tables take too much of a hit.if you're looking to lower the payout of missions, i would look toward what part of the mission running tends to pay out the most, which would be bounties."
"the mineral market will skyrocket - and everything will become a lot more expensive if this happens."
"i don't see why this is necessarily bad."
"inflation in t1 ship price far beyond insurance prices would hit hard the most isk-sensitive groups in the game: newbs, casual gamers, non elite pvpers. basically, the groups whose ability to enjoy the game is most predicated on viable low-cost alternatives to expensive and sp-intensive t2 gear would be hit hardest.edit: raising insurance to compensate would be catastrophic -- rarer minerals and more isk entering the system would create hyperinflation."
"i would estimate that mission runners are currently providing over 50% of the minerals entering the game.now, i can see that that t1 loot isn't very interesting unless you are new in which case it can serve as an introduction to a new module. but i would be very concerned if this mineral source was removed. i like the idea from the manufacturing side, but i can't manufacture without minerals."
"huh? granted my dimensions have evolved a lot over the years and i'm probably spoiled, but quite a few best-named/t2 mods cost more than a t1 cruiser - iow cruisers arent that expensive: even if they cost double, a freshman won't die of starvation.but according to your reasoning, we'd be on the right track to reduce high-sec ganks...? <3"
"havent been a new pilot for a while, but i do remember the average payout on level 1's was tiny compared to the payouts on level 3's and 4's, seem to remember something like 40k for a mission reward. if you affect a new pilots ability to get a shiny new ship that is better than the free ship, how many will continue beyond trial?affecting entry level ship prices via mineral price escalation could have a huge affect on the new playerbase, but would leave older pilots in t2 ships relatively unaffected.thinking about this, i cannot support the proposal."
"this game is a game in which the market is driven hugely on player involvement. by removing tech 1 loot from the npc wrecks, you are giving the newer players a chance to make money by producing their tech 1 items and selling them at a higher price than what they can right now. you clearly do not understand the economy in this game, otherwise youd get why this is a great idea."
"out of interest, what are you basing that 50% on?"
"87% of statistics provided off the cuff are made up...cwutididthar?"
"curious idea, let's think what a newbie need to be competitive in producing modules:1  a bpo  ie isk to buy it ;2  a researched bpo  time, at least 30 days between research and vaiting time, he has no pos ;3  production efficiency at least 44  at least some skill in refinery efficiency or he will loose a lot of isk refining the minerals;5  at least 4+ standing with come corporation  see 4 above why ;6  some trade skills to pay lower taxes and get some sell orders.how many months of play has your newbie?"
"well said and written."
"in high sec all they'd have to do is bump you till your supply of scrap ran out. this also has the potential for creating a substantial amount of lag depending upon how it's implemented.the idea of some kind of scan shield is interesting, though, as well as the idea of having some kind of notification that you're being scanned. the sound a scanner makes can be hard to catch in a crowded situation or if you're some distance from the scanning ship.windjammer"
"i see a lot of people have stated that the cerberus should get its bonus changed from flight time to missile velocity and for the most part i wouldn't disagree. however, if that bonus were to be changed to missile velocity what would be the effect of all those missile calculations on the servers? would it not add additional 'stress' which would manifest itslef as lag?ccp got round this problem with the 15 drone vexor/ishtar/dominix by removing that bonus and changing it to a damage/hp bonus and only allowing 5 maximum. i don't see how increasing the velocity of missiles will not result in lag on the servers.they do have a problem with hams and heavies overlapping though which does to some extent render the 'role' not 'usefulness' of the cerberus almost pointless. but they are from different races and so they should not be rendered useless by each other.i've got two different setups for my two cerbs and one uses 3 x bcs ii, + 2 x hydraulic bay thrusters with the net result of my missiles having a velocity of 10.9 km/s. the other uses 2 x bcs ii + 1 x bay loader + 1 x missile calefaction  effectively the same as having 3 x bcs ii  and the net speed of the missiles here is 8km/s or so but damage is higher than first setup.i'd say that most inties will be able to outrun these at 100km, but any closer and i'm sure they'll hit. any other ship will definitely take damage before it decides what to do and so there's no real point comparing a sac with a cerb. in any fleet both ships can be popped, it's just a matter of when and how quickly.both are very capable and diffent ships and yes there are some issues with the missiles which can be addressed but the sac is not better than the cerb.just my opinionjustice"
"support. cerb should be able to fit hams + mwd + tank. swap out the flight time bonus with an additional damage bonus."
"this sounds great. i mean, as long as we're getting decorations and costumes, why not go all out?"
"great idea."
"i love this.especially now i can see that more and more of the high level execs have something to do other than just being station-locked. what could be better than a negotiation taking place to the accompaniament of music? or banquets to celebrate the success of a war campaign?"
"exactly my thoughts in all points you mentioned j'mkarr."
"i'm a scimitar pilot, and as much as i like being able to jump out with this paper thin ship, i admit it's a little broken. only a little, because you have been driven away/taken out of combat. in itself, logistics aren't a threat. sure, they can return, but being off the field for ~1 minute leaves lots of room to kill stuff.i believe, the problem lies more within the fully recharged shields&cap when talking about stations. passive tanks really don't recharge that much between gate session timers = and if they undocked with 10, there's really no need for them to dock up again, zig-zag'ing the remote reps to the others...."
"this has been an aditional problem with faction warfare targets. neutrals will sit around repping members of the opposing faction all day and it isn't possible to do anything about it."
"agreed."
"this is now an exploit. petition the neutral.imo neutrals doing anything to assist a war target should be considered an exploit, or earn them an aggression timer toward the enemy for at least three hours  15 mins for npcs or before their ship will leave space after aggression if they log .15 minutes is far too short a timespan, imo."
"i brought this up during the meeting in iceland and they agreed it was gay. no worries hoss, everything's taken care of."
"much love bane..."
"i support the idea"
"you will not solve the missioner-blob by removing agent qualities -- in fact, you will make it worse. what makes the hubs so popular isn't just high-quality agents, but lots of high quality agents together, which lets you dismiss missions with low returns without slowing yourself down: this is even more important than the high quality.quality even provides an alternative to blobbing: instead of working a hub, you can work a single high quality agent near the lowsec border in return for less lag. by removing quality, you remove this option, and basically force people to bunch in the multi-agent hubs even more  which are better than single good agents, but balanced by lag  by increasing incentive to do so, because it just makes multi-agent hubs that much better relative to everything else."
"this is a case of wishfull thinking, imho. if you remove agent quality, players will still filter their \"agent place\" by system security statut and number of level 4 agents. and they will find one or two systems that are perceived to be better than the others.it won't make them spread out, it will just move the blob elsewhere.it also has one big drawback. currently you have two kind of high-sec mission-runners:- the biggest part that don't think too clearly, shall we say, that stay in motsu/dodixie/saila, whine about the lag, but don't try to do anything about it.- the smartest and smallest part that has put it's finger out of it's butt, analized the situation, and went elsewhere in places where it wasn't lagged out by the first kind.if you remove agent quality, not only will it do nothing to solve the blobbing part, but it also will force the smart kind to move away again."
"approving this...lag in mission systems is horrible."
"eve community called for a nano-nerf and they've got one on the drawing board. you can't claim the man isn't listening."
"ludicrous speedoh no. we've gone to plaid."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"actually he's perfectly correct. the community at large asked for an examination of it, due to the immense number of whines. i'd say ccp have done a pretty good job overall, and we still have time to make sure specific areas aren't thoroughly broken  like blaster ships ."
"im not siding with either side here...but just because the man listened to a complaint, that means he's knowledgeable? thats some crazy logic you have there."
"im all my heart for nefing nanohacs and making ships tank ad fight  atm only good hacs are ones that can be nanoed, in the eyes of majority .but ccp implemented every idea ever given about nerfing nanoes, times 2. way to go to break all known game mechanics. not a good way to balance a mmo ccp, not a good way."
"this post has been cleared of inappropriate content.regards,the eve online moderation team"
"didn't you know ccps primary directive when dealing with imbalances? there are only two choices: ignore it, or nerf it to the stone age. doing it in moderation just is not cool.and personally i am all for sending the nano back to the stone age anyway as long as it doesn't hit frig sized ships too hard."
"goons do it better."
"speed shouls still be an option.the solution, if any, is to give some more ways to combat it. not take away speed as an option."
"the dev post is a list of ideas that ccp's team have come up with. not the work of this single employee. this thread is moot and should be removed really.also, this isn't the place to discuss the changes proposed so please don't."
"csm's falling to namecalling in classic goon style should be seriously looked at for removal."
"aside from the stuff being part of a greater design issue, that dev is showing huge ignorance by basing his opinions in the thread on an insane setup  full snake set and t2 rigs, a 4b+ setup . the complaint is legit imo, if a developer shows complete ignorance about how things work in practice on tq."
"make a thread about it"
"nobheads like you taking things to heart should be removed from the human race."
"i see no reason why people who bring things to me should be banned. it's a witch hunt i tell you....  it's hot and i'm bored "
"yes a nano nerfif u look on any nano nerf thread none was asking this just make some ships slower just that not big deal  plz link here where the community show a massive support to this type of changes but if u read better dont nerf the poly or overdrives just change al speed in game50%-60% webber"
"until i see patch notes, meh so what. and like jade said, they obviously listened. and if that is indeed true, then nozh's proposals of the changes are not set in stone and he will be listening to see how certain proposed changes will effect the greater player base. i have seen a few dev blog proposals never ever make it to tq. or they hit sisi and then before release and with out warning it changed. i would think before everyone celebrate and or cancel your accounts, i would watch to see where it goes first."
"there is a difference between balancing and making something totally useless."
"to the op: do you actually think that one employee is given the power to make such changes without getting agreement from others?"
"oh hell yes.kicking myself for not thinking of this first."
"this may be oversimplifying things but isn't flight time part of the trade off for not having to worry about tracking?"
"if this goes in my proposal about making shield tankers damage mods go in the midslots must also be taken into consideration."
"this is actually a change that should go in regardless of it's implications for making missiles a valid option for pvp. this would also improve missiles for pve. unlike turret weaponry, which strikes a ship instantly, missiles have to travel to their target and don't always reach their maximum range and are quite slow to begin with. if you doubled the velocity but halved the flight time, it would still give you the exact same base range, but would make that rank 4 missile projection skill all the more important for pvp and pve to train to level 5.supported."
"nonsensemissiles get one dmg modturrets get a damgae moda med slot tracking/range modand a low slot trakcing/range modstfubut op's idea sounds like win/signed"
"signed.this also should reduce the amount of overkilling caused by launching a second volley of missiles at a ship that dies when the first volley finally hits"
"doing this would be a severe nerf to anti-missile systems, which already are subpar when compared to anti-turret systems.it might still be a good idea on the long run, you'd see more ships like the typhoon in fleets, but there need to be a viable counter to them."
"never seen the original dev post, so i can not vouchsafe for the truthfulness of the statement, but i have seen several people referring to a dev statement saying that missiles have already the max speed manageable by the system. apparently the the calculation for missile acceleration, trajectory and agility  they have a agility stat as they don't turn in 0 space  are pretty heavy. making them faster will require more operations as they will need to check position/speed/trajectory more often. it is like for the drones: the absence of drone upgrade implants and the often broken effect of drone modules is linked to the load they impose on the system. adding something to them will increase the load. after that, and adding that a simple exchange double speed for half flight time is a large boost for missiles and that it would require some other tradeoff to keep it balanced, i am favorable to this suggestion."
"/signed"
"as i understand it, missiles do not reach their theoretical maximum range  flight time x missile speed  due to the fact that after being launched, they accelerate to reach their maximum velocity, it would be nice to know what the acceleration figures are for the various missiles as then the number crunchers could produce a spreadsheet that would tell people what their true firing distances are.however, on topicgoing twice as fast for half as long may also help with the nano issue./support"
"their primary research division  core complexion  is in amarr space!!! i don't know about their secondary research division, however, but it only has 1/3 the research agents of core.ccp, look into this and advice the core complex board to move themselves back to minmatar space."
"anyone who does research knows the current character development is extremely poor. the entire industry, manufacturing and research portions are in desperate need of an overhaul. a good system is fun, challenging, involved and rewarding. eve's system generaly fails in these areas. we need someone on the council to get this done.that's why we have ank."
"that's hilarious. i do think a few changes need to be made regarding structures and so on, not just agents. caldari megacorps operating in gallente space  considering the megacorps are the caldari government, it's much more pressing than gallente corps operating in caldari space as gallente offices are just businesses, not business/government/militaries .can i stick a rider on your bill?despite how well the gallente and the minmatar get along i don't think there's a single way to get between the federation and the republic that doesn't involve running a gaunlet of lowsec systems. perhaps a more experienced player can prove me wrong, but i've yet to find a way to get between the two allies' space that doesn't involve going through a few systems of gankspace."
"in all honesty there are corporations of all factions operating in their enemy space.gallente operating in amarr space  another research corp too; creodron , and caldari space.caldari science corps  kallakiota  operating in minmatar space.amarr corps operating in minmatar space.with the emyprian age bringing war across the cluster it makes zero sense whatosever why corps, especially core scientific corporations, would operate out of enemy territory."
"you're living up to the standard of intelligence you've so proudly displayed elsewhere. particularly in the \"not-to-be-named issue\".windjammer"
"i disagree with the op.self destruct serves its proper function. nothing broken or overpowered about it. don't fix what ain't broke."
"if i have a mechanic wire my ship for self destruct i want him to wire all parts of it. then i'll inspect his wiring and make damn certain that the charges are so placed to blow up everything and deny my attackers any dropped loot. the attackers will get to salvage what is left."
"i think self destructing is right to not leave loot - that's the whole point of self destructing! it's a last ditch attempt to at least make sure your agressor doesn't get a piece of you. to address the problem of not being able to destroy the ship before it self destructs you could either:a  leave things as they are, just bring more firepower next time! orb  once self destruct is initiated, all modules should shut down in order to 'channel power to the self destruct mechanism', or something like that."
"if you cant kill a ship in the allotted two minutes then you should think about bringing more dps to the fight. end of story, this doesnt need to be changed."
"employment history should only be visible to people with appropriate roles. theres no reason everyone needs to see my entire corp history."
"i don't see a good reason to hide it frankly."
"so what do have to hide that you do not want people to know?"
"i direct your attention to this thread, as probably the single best demolition of your position. in short, a corp history provides a prospective corp a lot of valuable information about your play style, as well as providing enemies with intel on you, and telling people your character's date of birth. it hardly makes sense that your character's history should be hidden when it could be publicly compiled by anyone who takes an interest in you."
"how about no? corp history tells someone a lot about a person."
"...has become the new features and ideas forum. ccp please start filtering the **** in this forum a little better."
"oh and fix the fact that the op cant approve his own idea in the op..."
"for a couple months now, pos towers and structures no longer generate kill/lossmails when destroyed. i have bug reported this and it was marked as a known issue but it's been quite a while and still nothing has been done about it.this was a great feature for many reasons, and it'd be a shame if it took any longer to get fixed."
"oh god plz halp"
"mails for the mail throne"
"with the upcoming speed nerfs and ner***e of webs, can large ships be given turrets that are good against ships of a smaller class?specifically, i would like the dual heavy beam, the dual 250mm railgun, and the 1200mm artillery cannon, and their cruiser gun size counterparts to receive tracking and sig radius buffs. these weapons lack range and damage, and in general are regarded as pretty terrible turrets. give them a role."
"this thread has been brought to the attention of the council of stellar management. as this discussion is veering off-topic and has become a personal attack, we are locking this thread."
"missile boats can be used very effectively in small scale pvp however they require more brains to use then a typical turret sniper. to snipe in a missile boat you need to have another ship or ships hold the target in place so he cant warp off. for this reason missile snipers do not scale well in large scale pvp. for a large scale pvp engagement the fact that turrets instantly hit becomes much more of an advantage.missiles have two main advantages over turrets: you do full damage at any range and you can choose your damage type. not sure if you have heard of burn eden"
"and now look on the killboard u posted and tell me how much they used the cerb"
"u all telling that missiles are no sniper weapons which i fully agree. and than u dont see a problem if a ship get 2 bonuses to increase the range of the long range missiles to 150km+sure by hams are this bonuses usefull. pity the cerb have no the grid to use an effective ham setup which would significant increase the dps if he loose the range...all u who tell the cerb is ok with missiles because u can have a tackler which is close and dont let warp the enemy out is bull****. why to have a 100dps ship to point and a 300 dps ship to do damage from range if u can put the 2 pilots into a closerange missile ship like the sacri and have double the point and double the damage?"
"this made me lol  with capital letters . thank you!"
"so? try fitting an absolution with mwd, 1600 plate and heavy pulse, omen, etc. we'll see if you get better results..you seem to think that caldari ships are somehow entitled to always have a dual lse-based tank, and that the rest of their fit shouldn't suffer from it. that isn't the case. if you fit oversized mods, the rest of the fit should be gimped to some extent.so, you're a fotm user. explain a lot on your views of proper balance..."
"here's an issue. i keep clicking assembly hall and keep getting features and ideas discussion. ccp fix your forums please."
"never tried a ham cerb, i see."
"check your dev blogs and smoke a fatty!now that snakes and other speed screamers are being brought to heel  but not slaughtered, thank the almighty balance bat called nerf .allrighty, ccp, now boost the halo set to be effective beyond dusty collector's items  singular use of possessive 'collector', cause who else bothers? not me, too po .about bloody time, shoulda come down the pipe with the privateers nerf."
"and the issue you're raising with this is...?"
"to advise folks to read the dev blog and stop yammering about it?"
"then it's a reasonable issue, though not one that needs to go to the csm."
"yes, wonderful, let's hurt the only viable way to really, avoid a titan blast, and encourage even more blob warfare, and beat on the only pvp that required any actually skill, unless targeting the right thing and shooting your guns, requires skill."
"your tears. not enought salt..... go back to the corner and cry out some more. adapt or die. your stuff, can i have?hmm what else has been said to me by nanotards when i say speed mods need looked at....either way it its now the nanotards that need to go gry in a corner, then after their cry, they can adapt or die, and on the way out the door hand me your stuff."
"thanks caldari, you b*** so much you got the devs to nerf.say bye bye to tech1 cruisers also"
"i think this gentleman hasn't noticed that webs are getting shafted too. something tells me that most experienced pvp outfits will adapt for the purposes of empire and faction wars. but of course it does certainly make avoiding the blob in 0.0 that much harder and will again reduce viable raiding opportunity in sovereign alliance territory. i'm disappointed this development agenda will come to fruition before fixes to 0.0 sovereignty systems and overwhelming defense advantage."
"welp, time to start theory crafting. this proves that cross training is your friend."
"frankly, this is so much change all at once that i have no idea what to make of it. i like the bit about making speed be better segregated by ship class, but as to the interaction of scram, mwd, nano, polycarb, od, web, and implant changes, i don't even know where to begin especially given that i'm not even sure what they intend nanos to do . you can bet good money i'll be on sisi on monday to try it all out, though."
"ah, and there was i under the impression that titans and huge battleship fleets aren't that common in high-sec or even low-sec...seriously, 0.0 isn't the only game in town; nano-ships can be used everywhere. i agree with jade's point that addressing 0.0 blobbing, titans, and so on, needs looking at as well if you remove the counters to that specific specialised form of warfare. that said, i'm unconvinced that it has been removed. you will still be able to go fast, just not insanely fast.i'd also argue that flying most ships can take skill, particularly tackling, regardless of whether it's a nano-ship or not."
"ahh, and if you do take a looksee at that nice little graph on the blog you'll see that the peak speed of almost all ship classes is not being reduced all that much.i'm not too keen on the web changes, however, because a battleship coasts right through them, esp something as beefy as a mwd typh or mach. it's a wait and see and evolve.and i'll certainly be evolving because i tend to favor speed myself, but can't afford snakes so i can go flashing from gate to gate without hitting the warp button."
"i am not to sure why this is so much of a surprise to any one. each and every race of ships and every profession gets hit with something every patch. if you have been in the game long enough it just become routine and learn to cross train to adapt to one nerf on one and take advantage of a boost somewhere else."
"this is a good change.90% webs will become 50-60% web. scram becomes mwd shut off switch. speed that breaks game physics calculations gets fixed etc etcnow attackers can actually get a fight if the defenders decide to try a cloaking nanogang crap. adapt or die is the old phrase"
"to my mind eve should be a myriad of styles, when everyone and their dogs are fitting speed tanks on ships that aren't supposed to be speedy, it indicates to me something is broken.edit: forgot the thumb"
"you are pretty hilarious, poor pvper and have no clue how game mechanics work. nothing wrong with speed, just eve attacking a disproportionate amount of losers"
"incorrect.speed is broken, but it can be countered... with extremely specific shis running extremely specific setups.i.e. everyone needs a hyena or better yet a huginn/rapier in their fleet... or many of them. they simply have very little other choice, at all, period, whatsoever. the only way to catch a speedfit is to slow it down, and only webs can  partially  slow down fast ships  unless they manage to coast out of range .everyone should have a sentinel or better yet a curse  not a pilgrim   in their fleet to sap the speed ships of their energy, but that still won't enable you to catch them without the aforementioned minnie ships. a bs with neuts... eh, very limited utility unless the speeder wants to also scram.thus, you have 1 class of ships that can potentially make a speed fit  and there are many, many speed fits not just 1 class of them  slow enough to strike and when the speed fit feels the tickle of a web, it's gone.oh, unless the fleet has a lach/araz... but that's not as much a necessity as the hyena/****/hug.so, as you can see, speed does have its limited countermeasures, but it is broken under the current mechanic."
"double post :/ delete."
"this is by far the moast profound statement on the internetz today. if it is fast, you must catch it... by god we have pure genius here so cap warfare has limited utility? the curse is just a joke as well? can you do stuff in an internet spaceship without cap? drakes anyone? no really, i didnt know that"
"first point is valid, second is not. the web sphere of doom needs to be looked at. however, nano really isn't that big a deal and people should quit whining."
"so speaks someone who thinks going less than 6km/s is being parked.i did not say speed was wrong, or ruining the game, or non-counterable, only that it is inordinately balanced currently toward other types of combat. it's either 'catch the mosquitos' or 'watch out for the hot drop', with out a whole lot in the middle.i didn't gainsay the curse, i pointed out it is the second most valuable ship in a fleet after the webbers. cap warfare is extremely valid, only that heavy neuts  heavy, can ya read?  due to capping out at what... 25km unless you pay out the ringpiece for faction?let me restate: speed is broken, but it can be countered. it merely needs  yet another  close look to bring it back into balance.for a start switching the % bonuses on snakes for the % bonuses on, say, halos or talismans."
"luckily: nano changes."
"speed is being fixed. check your dev blogs.ccp is reducing snake implant bonuses to be identical to the  particularly useless  halo & talisman levels."
"you got what u wanted...stop whining..."
"thank you, ccp."
"as the original poster of what is the oldest and largest \"speed\" topic brought to the csm, i must call the csm to shout at ccp until they abandon this ****ing stupid mwd nerf. their dev blog is entitled \"speed rebalanced\" but in actuality should be called \"look how ****ing stupid we still are\".csm, i demand you do everything in your power to put a stop to this."
"as someone might actually notice this here instead of general whining forum.rebalancing ship base speeds. good idea ccp.increasing stacking penalties for ods and polycarbons, the needed thing. good.nerfing snakes... 56% was too much, but the nerf might be to hard.capping all mwds to 500%. okish.mwd reactivation time. also the thing. excellent.not actually boosting abs... bad call.web changes, mwd scramb interaction... horrible, horrible horrible : "
"was always going to happen. if you nerf speed you need to nerf webs, otherwise webs become an absolutely overpowering factor in fighting. i do predict an increase in frustration as more targets manage to crawl back to the gates to escape combat though.i do agree also that afterburners do need improving."
"i suspect its too late to stop it outright ivor. there has been too much of a head of steam build up by the nano-whining brigade so we are going to see an end to nano speeds and increase in more static tank and gank based warfare for a while. what saddens me most is that this is going to happen before 0.0 is fixed so its going to reduce the opportunity for raiding and small unit pvp in anything but cloaked ships. still i suspect it drives more people away from 0.0 and into the arms of faction warfare and eventually that will make it increasingly evident that 0.0 sovereignty does need fixing and eventually the right thing gets done.ship balancing is a bit like parenting though, sometimes you have to let the little darlings find out what jalapeno peppers do taste like rather than just telling them. see you in my uber tanked rr battleship on the flipside!  in empire ."
"but what happens with blasterboats? ab+mwd mandatory? still every ship with base speed higher than yours will run away, or give you enough transversal to turn blaster dps into nothing?imho, web needed range/strength scripts. not total nerf."
"bring friends  with loads of webs . nano nerf was always going to be a solo playstyle nerf."
"could ccp please look into giving the tower a common access materials bay?say, perhaps 1m storage that assembly arrays, labs, ect can draw from?or set the corp hangars up so that those arrays can draw from it so we're not handing materials all over the place to get things done?"
"have to nix this idea, sorry.i've been in this game for 4+ years and have not once seen any idea put forward on the ideas forum brought forward other than bug fixes and balances. ccp might respond to 1 thread in a month or six and it's usually a poo-poo looked into and not viable or whatever.the ideas forum is pointless except as a void into which ideas  the really, really good and the really, really lame  disappear, falling back into the inner system on regular cometary orbits to burn brightly for a day or two before disappearing toward the outer system for a month."
"personally i'm a sucker for detail and feel things should go in the right place. i can see what you're saying, but i think the assembly hail has fallen in to disrepair because of little to no moderation and lack of action of the csm's part. it may not be entirely their fualt given how much ccp have altered and gimped their roles, but the way forwards to my eyes is this:ideas go into the ideas forum.. as it's where they belong. granted not everyone will see them and they may not get a dev response, but now the csm's exist they don't have to. there is nothing stopping the csm's regularly visiting the ideas forum to sift the wheat from the chaff so they could then reccomend to escalate threads themselves for putting forwards to the council.as it stands now the assembly hall states it is to raise topics to the attention of the csm. personally some people may consdier raising an idea is to initially create it. my view is, there is an ideas forum for the conception and the assembly hall exists for the escalation. if the csm was doing a good job, they would be aware of the topics on other boards and they could raise them here, instead of assembly hall becoming the new ideas forum.alas you're probably right though even if things should go where they belong, they probably won't end up there"
"funny, when these sections of the forums were implemented things that had the \"issue\" tag in the title had links to previous discussions that had alot of replies and support. now its just crap. really getting sick of looking here. used to be interesting, not anymore.everyone is aware of this but i have to give the obliged thumbs up."
"yeah, nothing stopping them, but nothing at all prompting them. forcing ideas back to that useless forum will result in the same thing that's been done for the last four years...... nothing."
"they made gravimetric belts stupidly hard to find for a reason.if they moved all of the ore belts to exploration i can see them making gravi a little easier to find but there would be sigs in every single system so you never know which of the 13 gravi hits has decent ore... and there will be 200 peeps in the system scanning.leave the existing static belts as they are and do something about the macros, not the exploration content itself.i would, however, like to see exploration bcs that can find and then work through mid-range exploration content without having to slog along an alt or three  finder, clearer, cleaner .a tier2 t2 bc with zero gang bonuses, but able to fit a cov ops cloak  or standard with velocity bonuses , probe launcher, and scan time bonuses. no damage bonuses but all of them relying on drones only for their primary damage, then give them tractor range & salvage success bonuses.currently the only ones that comes close to this are gallente boats or arbitrators/pilgrim due to their reliance on drones. give them the exploration bonuses and they would be the utmost perfect exploration vessels."
"following on from the ship idea would be changes to how ore asteroids currently work.1. all asteroids will not show their type when initially discovered. instead it'll show up as being an \"unsurveyed asteroid\"2. you can mine these asteroids, however all you'll get is a hold full of bits of rock  this won't affect the ore content of the asteroid , if you want the valuable ores you need to survey it first.3. survey scanners to change from an area of effect to working only on the asteroid currently targetted.4. once surveyed, the asteroid changes from \"unsurveyed\" to it's correct type. mining then occurs as normal.5. once the ore is depleted, the asteroid doesn't just vanish, instead it becomes a \"barren asteroid\". completing a cycle on a barren asteroid will again give you bits of rock which you'll need to jettison or perhaps a use could be found for these  a bpo for construction blocks, for example "
"this kind of thing should be battered out in features and ideas first."
"you have a good point, requested that this post be moved."
"ok, now imagine yourself being a 3 day old newbee in a mining frigate. how is he going to do all of the items decribed above?"
"what's sad, is that people are trying to rewind time as far as mining is concerned.once upon a time, settlers came to each new system. they established a stargate, they put up some stations, and then they started looking for resources.they sent out probes, and tracked down there the local asteroid belts were. they went there, found that they did in fact have a decent supply of ore, and they posted a beacon. take a look the next time you warp to a belt. there's a little teeny dot in space where you first land.that's what people are trying to get rid of, which is a waste. they are upset that its so easy to mine, forgetting that if only explorers could find asteroid belts... then the industrial market would crash immediately. how many 2 day old rookies are trying to sc**** their way to their first cruiser by way of mining veld? and you want to force anyone intent on mining to first specialize in exploration?someone already found those belts, and marked them for public usage. making everyone have to find them all over again, or especially find them again and again, day after day... is just taking a step backwards."
"there'd be nothing stopping pockets of low level asteroids showing up on the onboard scanner, perhaps as a gravimetric distortion, perhaps even on the overview in place of the current belts. you'd need the probe ship to find the better unbeaconed sites.a survey scanner requires electronics i.lock asteroid, activate scanner, mine asteroid, profit."
"perhaps, though it does make a certain amount of sense. after all, those belts were located a long time ago. with all the mining  not just players, i'm sure the empires themselves have taken a fairly large chunk out of the belts, hence why you can't find high end ores anywhere in high sec outside the exploration pockets.  it makes sense that they're extremely depleted. heck, as a way of introducing this why not max out the current belt asteroids, and allow the players to run them down themselves.as a way of keeping things interesting, you could give the surveyer the option of whether to register his survey results  changing the overview from unsurveyed asteroid to the correct type including remaining quantity at time of survey   or ignore them, leaving the asteroid showing as being unsurveyed. once registered, anyone can mine the asteroid  useful for corp ops  freely. that way, you're never sure if the asteroid you're scanning is a fresh asteroid with potential to be something special, or something another prospector has scanned but didn't think was worth his time to register.of course, you do need to keep a supply of asteroids available for new pilots so every downtime, 10% of the current barren asteroids in a belt will vanish to be replaced with new unsurveyed asteroids.another idea could be for storyline prospecting missions. say a systems belts are depleted over the course of a day, as a storyline for those doing the mining missions you could get a mission to track down a known gravimetric site in that system and anchor a beacon on behalf of the mining corporation  which you could turn down with no loss of faction standings in return for a non-mining storyline . once the beacon was anchored it would appear on everyone in that systems overview as an \"asteroid cluster\" allowing people to warp directly to the fresh cluster. the beacon would deactivate once the pocket had been mined out  less than 10% roids left, these don't respawn "
"there's a lot of talk about how to fix the problems caused by mission running hubs, and a lot of suggestions on how to fix it, but i have a suggestion of my own.remove all agents.replace with locationless personal agents.personal agents are very simple, basically, you 'phone' ie eve mail them, or open a talk window from within a station  your personal agent, and request a mission from them of whatever level you want, and they give you the mission outline, which gives you all the information you need.the difference from a normal agent is, you can spawn missions from any where. lets say you're out in some backwater high sec system; you ring up your agent, she/he gives you gone bersek, level 4, spawned in the system you're in. you gain access to these personal agents ether from them contacting you, or if you seek out their phyiscal locations and talk to them, perhaps requiring you to run a 10 part mission to gain their trust.i don't really expect this to completely solve the problem of mission running hubs, but it should allow us mission runners more flexibility in where we choose to run our missions, rather then being forced into grouping together at the stations where the 'best' agents are."
"that is one idea, letting you run missions from whatever home you want to set up so long as there is a station.another would be to remove the 'level' of the agent and go only by standing to that agent.so when you get an agent, whatever his type, he starts at l-1 q-20. as you run missions his quality and level go up, capping at l4q20 in 0.5+, l5-6 for lowsec, and 6-7 for 0.0the only problem is the number of agents for a particular division in any given station  4 'intelligence' agents in 1 station, ect . they would have to lower that of at most 1 per division  1 int, 1 manuf, 1 personell, ect .oh, yeah, and cap agents available to npc corps at 3:0."
"this could quite possibly still create missioner hubs.how? mission runners would check the map, select a .5 system that has no low sec within 2-3 jumps, setup base there, then ring their agents for a mission. as the supply of these .5 systems with no low sec in 2-3 jumps is extremely limited, it just means all the maximised mission runners would be in a couple of systems"
"i did say it wouldn't completely solve the problem, but it would possibly allow the current ones to break up, and it will also prevent new mission runners from being drawn into the same systems over and over again seeking good agents."
"basic idea is good, and gets my support.i am sure it would require a lot of tweaking beyond the broad outline, maybe things like limiting a personal agent to a constellation.implementing this would allow a restructuring of missions in general, and storylines in particular. i think ccp realizes that a good portion of the player base   did not say majority   have chosen a career path other than combat pilot. there is nothing more frustrating than doing lvl 3 manufacturing and mining missions only to get a level 3 combat mission for the storyline. in order for a player that wants to mine to do level 3 missions, they need the industry skills and the combat skills for level 3 missions.as a researcher i feel i am being forced to cross train research and combat if i want to gain faction. combat only pilots do not have the same requirement. when the japaneese bombed pearl harbor, admiral yammamoto did not fear they had awakened the american military power, he feared the american industrial power. point is there are other things that make someone valuable to their country   faction   other than pew-pew, but pew-pew is by far the only way to gain faction in eve.a major rework of the missioning system would allow a restructuring of the division system that would sort mission types into basic types, with no need to decline missions because you work for a manufacturing agent and he gives you a combat mission. properly constructed a manufacturing agent would not have combat missions in the mix.the current setup seems to be biased to combat pilots forcing those that want a different career to chose to not gain faction, or to cross train for something they chose not to do.the combat only pilots would lose nothing by such a change, ccp might retain a few more non-combat subscriptions if implemented. larger subscriber base is a good thing."
"rather than resetting current ships, it probably would be better to balance by introducing newer ships/modules along the lines you suggest."
"may i interest the readers here in this topic about t1 loot, currently running parallel."
"win win and more win"
"very simply, it takes 1, second best officer smart bomb, to make a titan 100% immune, hell, to make any ship, immune to citadel missiles."
"i don't see the \"smartbomb issue\" as an issue.first, it require a pretty heavy investment, 3 faction smartbombs to be 100% effective as a missile defense. that means 3 slots on ships that have 5 high slots  for carriers . and a carrier with only 2 high slots for remote/neut/other is severely limited in usefullness. add to that a hefty cap drain when they're active, something like -56 to -80 cap/second for 3 smarties, that mean your tank won't be as good as it would be without them.second, for once there's a defense effective against missiles. because defenders just don't cut it. it's hte only effective defense for a non-seepd ship. and you want to nerf it?third, the \"can tank an infinite amount of phoenixes\" is pretty lol, as you could say the same with a carrier \"tanking an infinite amount of revelations\" if it fits 2 overdrives and keep a high transversal. that will never be a problem because you'll never see a dread fleet with only phoenixes.i won't comment on dps, as i haven't used them. but, because of considerations like high alpha strike, complete damage type selection, and no cap used, they should be the least damaging of the xl weapons. last, i think there should be capital cruise missiles, to give phoenixes a long-range option, and citadel torps should be reduced in range. dps of both should then be tuned to be competitive but not overpowered."
"i agree regarding insurance currently paying too much and t2 insurance. however, i think that t2 insurance should still be a bit below market value to make those ships really matter to lose  but not be absurdly expensive to lose as they are now . however, i disagree with regards to suicide ganking. it should still pay insurance, but with the adjusted insurance prices, it will be more practical and not occur as often.also, faction ships should not insure for their full value. that would be a tad ridiculous."
"while i agree with the issues in this thread, they really should be 2 or 3 separate threads to allow more granular voting."
"definetly in support of all points made by the op."
"no. sorry, but i just don't like it"
"they have contemplated this system for years, and came to the conclusion that it was just too complicated code-wise to have, in essence, a flying outpost  in relation to destructable systems ."
"while this seems all too much detail and micromanagment to add to laggy capital fights, i do like the idea of making capitals capitals. but all that would be necessary is a buff combined with making them more expensive  maybe that +500% structure idea combined with raising build costs and removing the option to insure carriers/dreads, dunno, not a capital pilot yet ."
"by now there's probably something like 12000 carriers and 3000 dreads out there. they just can't be \"special\" anymore."
"if you're going to do this whole subsystem targeting, you should make it part of the whole system.for example: when you fire on a ship, you first hit the shields, this is the first 'section' of the ship you can target; once you've broke through the shield, you can then target other sections of the ship, such as, for example, the engines. the engines are armored, and you have to break through the armor to disable, occurs randomly once it's under 75% structure  or destroy, them.different sections have different ways they represent their hp: shield emitters only have protection from the shields they emit, and some structure, where as the bridge has shield  seprate from the ship's shields , armor, and structure.now, we generally talk about shield tanking or armor tanking in the sense of how much hp each section of the hp bar has, where the best resists are located, and where the slots are most abundant. on a capital ship, we have an added element; how many targetible sections exist. on a revelation, for example, you'd find 6 shield emitters, and 30  or whatever  armor sections, where as on a chimera, you'd find 36 shield emitters  and thus 36 separate ship shield sections  and a mere 10 armor sections. in other words, when you target a capital you have to fight through various layers:ship shield section--->armor section--->structure |or----->subsystem's shields if any --->subsystem's armor if any --->subsystem stucturedepending on where the sub structure is located, you may have to first break through the ship's armor section first as well.with subsystem targeting, i'd like to see the current model of fitting ships done away with as well; rather then having a max of 24 hard points, you could have a max of 24 hard points per section, although you'd have to restrict what modules can, or cannot, be placed in these slots; ie, you can't fit an extra webber to an engine section mid slot."
"from what i've gathered so far, most of the players that have suggested changing the missioning system fail to realize the ramifications of their proposed changes.currently all suggested changes would bring only one thing to eve, the cancellation of thousands of subscriptions. it's not an over-exaggeration, but a cold hard fact. all the propositions so far pretty much force players into low-sec mission agents or into ratting to continue making isk. once players start to do this, a few things will occur. bloating over low-sec once people move to different mission hubs. bloating over the lowest 'true-sec' of 0.0 to get the best ratting done. and a lot of ganking. not pvp. ganking. a lot of people in empire don't pvp for good reason. this will bring no pvp, only ganking. and once people get ganked? their subscription ends with frustration.people really have to take into account what people will feel once they feel the hammer of wrath from other players.now, onto my idea. it's actually rather simple. i don't want to suggest dynamic agent quality like others have, nor static agents. instead, i suggest agent quality depends on personal standing.how this would work is rather simple. you find an agent in a really empty section of space. they're not used often. maybe because before they were -18 agents. now you have a really low personal standing with them, so they give you really bad rewards.. but if you work hard, that standing rises, and with it so does the rewards and missions you have access to.what would this solve? well it would solve mission hubs if quality was based on personal standings. it would allow people to leave if they wanted to and work hard to get better agents. and all those people could spread out and thus mission hubs would gradually lessen until the lag isn't as terrible as it is now.but agents as they are now have a few flaws. their placement isn't that great, and there are not nearly enough for the factions to support their player base. it would be nice to have more agents for those corporations that give out the best rewards, namely ships, hence the popularity of the caldari navy.thoughts?"
"agreed.the standings of the agent, and only that agent, should be modified by the pilot's standing with that agent  not the agent's corp . so if someone's dedicated to their agent the quality of that agent should go up.this should not be modified by skills, only the pilot's hard work.all agents should start at -20q.as a matter of fact, the agents should have dynamic levels as well as quality. so essentially every agent in eve has the potential to be a level 4, if the pilot sticks with them. they start at l1 q-20, each and every one. as the pilot works with them and their q goes up they offer steadily increasing mission levels up to lvl4 q20  in secure space  and lvl5-6 in lowsec, and lvl6-7 in 0.0this will spread the mission base out a lot more, homogenizing it across the eve map rather than in overworked little clusters."
"not good. it means you take the agent nearest the trade hub of your choice and we get the massive network effects that created jita and motsu."
"if you do away with quality entirely, the exact same thing will happen. if you make quality based on agent standing, the only thing creating lag is people who are too scared to move on to another system. as for everyone else? well, if you don't like the lag, you can move to a new system, grind up personal standing, and have an agent that's just as good as the agents within a hub, just with far less lag.of course this means agents really need to be more spread out, while still being in locations where empire players feel safe, and there needs to be more agents in high sec as well for densely populated areas."
"definately so, otherwise people will just go to a system with the most agents in one station and grind all of them up to lvl4 and farm the absolute shyt out of them. some limit needs to be put on how many lvl4/20 agents a person can have in a single station/system/constellation."
"eh. i don't think agents should be able to grind up from level 1 to level 4 along with quality. only quality should be dynamically altered by your personal standing. then having a lot of agents in a single station would result in that. however, as it is, there are some corporations that *do* have 4+ level 4 agents in a single station in a single system all in the same branch. this should never happen, and those agents should all be moved.thus i don't think there should be a limit as to how many agents are in a system, but they *should* be more spread out regardless."
"the problem is that having lots of viable agents in one system, rather than having one good agent, is what creates the massive mission hubs with intolerable lag.without spreading the existing agents, people will do exactly what was described above: get however they can the most possible favoring-them level 4's they can and farm the good missions  if you mission, you should understand the significance of always being able to casually drop massive attack, duo of death, recon 2/3, anything in a system you don't want to travel to, etc. edit: so while i agree with you on spreading, a limit on how many agents in a system is exactly what is needed, among other things  also, maybe it'll satisfy the calls to nerf missions that are getting so common, because spreading agents is exactly that ."
"with ccp stating that they will be looking into the risk vs reward of suicide ganking i would be cautious in introducing something like this, the idea is not to remove suicide ganking entirely, but to make the suicide gankers actually work for their paydays. its a nice idea, but i dont think something like this should be introduced until we see what ccp does about suicide ganking."
"i'd say this sounds like a database nightmare?everytime someone scans your ship, regardless of where they are, the game has to check back with your hanger over in jita before it can give them readings.sad but true."
"that would be perfect, if you stuck your can in jita. by the time the database call worked through the lag and gave them a reading  during which time the scanner is frozen in space  the freigher will be 2 jumps away on autopilot.i've looked at it for years  4, to be exact  and i have yet to see one idea put forward there make it to patch, other than bug fixes. imbalances have been rectified, but never with any idea  good or bad  put forth in that forum. it should simply be deleted."
"oh dear gods i completely missed that bit.bad idea, terrible idea, horrendous idea. just go with the usual one presented in f&i  i'm a regular   whereby it returns randomness. much easier to handle."
"jump out in a raven with a couple of sensor boosters on with range scripts. have a friend agress you, whether by ecm or guns or whatever, at say 85km or greater range. try to fire your f.o.f.'syou will see the bug of which i speak.\"there are no targets in range of your arbalest cruise launcher\""
"fixed. they no longer exist, they were taken out a while back, perhaps because their damage was > t1 regular cruise."
"here, how about this:make all missiles fof by default, regardless of what type the are.when there's a locked target selected, all the missiles go after it as normal; focused fire. if the target is lost  you're jammed, it blows up , all subsequent missiles become fof  yes, your launchers don't cycle off!  until there's no foe left to shoot at. priority is ships before drones.if you shoot at a locked target that's out of range, or that goes out of range, you are still launching missiles at it regardless  just like now  until you unlock the target or select another and reassign your launchers."
"pateria, you do realize that fof means friend or foe right? meaning that if you fire that and you have someone repping you you are pounding your buddy. and if i understand you correctly it looks for the next target once lock has been lost. if that's the case i do not want to be any where around you when you fire those things off in a fleet battle.you are asking for an signature seek type missile. but it has to know who is friend or foe however. and i am not sure how you would do that."
"the fleet i was in the other day ran off the attackers when our fof missiles killed their drones, don't underestimate them : ."
"... are too too short.a ship logging under gate-cloak vanishes 60 seconds later regardless if it is aggressed or not. ships should remain in space for 5 minutes though they should emergency warp as normal within 30 seconds unless held down by a pc-sourced warp scrambler. npc warp scramblers should not hold down ships that log/crash/whatever.currently it's impossible to scan down a ship that logs and, barring a blob, anything with a little resistance vanishes before being destroyed if the pilot can log before the first aggression.likewise, jumping resets the aggression timer to zero so that once they jump they can immediately log and their ship escapes unless blobbed on the other side."
"i'm in agreement that the mass needs reducing to t1 variant levels.as for bonuses i'd agree more with the people that asked for extra tracking...or equivalent bonuses to fight nanoships  explosion velocity for missiles, tracking for guns . without increasing the overall damage output of these ships you'd make them one of the few ships that could fight nano's without being fitted for speed themselves. this would not be a bad thing at all."
"i like that gallente are more drone spec... that's cool. but asking that all the other races completely lose their drone ability... that's lame.consider that industrial competition, not to mention full out war, usually leads to similar ideas. one side will design a product, and when the popularity catches on, then the others will make something similar in the hopes of swaying the market with their slight differences.so it's not inconceivable that the other races would have seen gallente drones at some point, and thought \"gee, why don't we have those?\" and then went home and made them. there's nothing genetically bonding about drones, that only a gallente would be able to make tiny engines, tiny guns, and remote controls.so i agree that gallente could have more drone stuff going for them, but that's not to say they'd be the only ones with them.as for gallente doing too much damage... realize that the amarr are the ones with extra storage space. gallente ships have higher bandwidth, to field slightly larger drones than normal, but still in limited supply. so if you are able, take out the drones. then you know all they have left are what's fitted. or... mount some smartbombs, and take out his whole wing in one swoop.drones aren't the end of a battle, they're just another source of dps."
"you are wrong. newbe can buy a hardwire implant which give same bonus as additional skill  which isnt really needed to fit all ships with reasonable fittings , idea is to give additional way for everyone than implant  cause older players already pay alot more for clone than newbe .if someone doesnt want to wait a month or so, he allways can buy a proper hardwire implant.besides everyone have same rights and can start play game today, or could start play 5 years ago and spent alot of real money till now. if someone doesnt want to wait he allways can buy an older character."
"stats shouldn't be in the game at all and no this is not a troll.removed learning skills and implant stats and starting stats and, hell, the stat window.make every skill train as if you had 30 of each stat and learning 5, right out of the gate.i am not kidding.this would eliminate the learning skill grind.this would make more people pvp because a lot of people buy implants for nothing but the boost to learning skills, and then that makes their pod more expensive and less likely to risk pvp.this would eliminate the pidgeon-holing of sorts. say you have excellent stats for training manufacturing and science, but now you want to try out flying combat ships and guns and all things pew pew. your stats may be totally gimp for training those things. this would eliminate that pidgeon-holing.stats in eve = pure lose lose situation. nothing good comes from it, lots of bad does though."
"no. they are optional, and variation between different character's stats is a good thing. also, it would be one hell of a job for ccp to compensate all the players for the sp."
"i would love to see a dedicated exploration ship introduced. a ship with the exploration bonus  equal to or better than current  and that has a bonus to probe carrying capabilities. i want to be able to carry enough probes to scan down at least 2 systems for any type of site found  ie full set of each type of probes . the only ships with the bonus now are so small for storage, that you have to have another ship to carry extra probes and carry the loot away. i don't think that a dedicated exploration ship should also get combat bonuses, because then it isn't a dedicated exploration ship.just my thoughts"
"you sir have a \"hate\" issue thus you're a bigot.i don't like pink people. see..? far from hate.nobody hates gay people, some may not like them. are they allowed to dislike them? i'd say yes.now, you are in a game impersonating a character, a game where amarr guys use minmatar guys as slaves. amarrians doesn't even have to hate minmatars, they are just life stock, how about that..finally, you want your real life rights to be respected in game where piracy, theft, scams, slavery  to mention only few  are highly encouraged? education is what will define you later, but you still like the game, don't you?in game you are offended if i use words like \"scum\" or \"sleezbag\" referring to you? btw, this is how my agent thinks about you.give it a thought you bigots hater."
"that's exactly why the commons are ruled by the intellegencia. also, statistics show that there are less intellegent people than there are commons, you deduce the rest.-i'm against a wordfilter.-"
"agreed, some of the people starting, who have completed the tutorials, don't know about right click on object or how to fly by the double click in space method, thats a problem."
"qft. most mmporpg's have a quick progression to 25% of max level, and after that there's a bit of grinding and slowing of progression. of course, 25% of max level isn't anywhere close to 25% of the power of a character maxed out, so i really think eve is still better in this respect. you can train quite a few things, and earn quite a lot of money  for a newb:  before anything but the quick, lower level learning skills will help you. and you don't have to do any grinding, other than for rep or isk. the skills, and your power in the game, improve even if you have an insane workweek/finals or whatever.when i was a newb, last november, i was given two pieces of advice that were pure gold: 1, you only need to train learnings to 3, then train the stuff you need  all lower learnings -empathy to 3 takes 2 days, 7 hrs on a minmatar brutor slave child, all pts into perc/will, which is a worst case example. everyone else will train them faster.  go back later and finish them when you start training things higher. and 2, salvage. by doing so i had a balance of candy and vegetables, and all the cash a newbie could want.i have a corpie who started 2 days earlier than i did, and has like a million sp more than i do, since he started by maxing learnings out  5/4  800k of that is in learning tho, and he has a \"well-rounded\" stat distribution. i'm finally taking the lower learnings to 5, however, and once i finish that, i'll be continuing to train the perc/will stuff almost exlusively, so it'll take me less than two months to pull ahead. deciding where you want your character to go and specializing is something i actually gleaned from the forums:  thanks all.p.s. if a newbie doesn't have any clue, and just trains for the \"next big ship,\" they're going to lose it, get frustrated, and leave just as fast as the bored newbie. we had new recruits who did just that, and despite our best advice,  which they were too impatient to follow , they lost too many ships they couldn't afford to, and left:  i just think ccp has come to the conclusion that, yes, if they could go back and make the perfect eve, and scale it perfectly for newbies and vets alike, they would, but they can't, and they've accepted that as it is, the game is not for everyone."
"i think the system is good as it is. the war fighters get their pvp, for which they bribe concord to look the other way. until they have actually looted a can, the stuff should belong to its original owner, if they are not fast enough to loot the can before some enterprising pilot grabs it, tough.if loot was flagged to the victor, i believe the griefing wars in empire would increase massively. also i seriously doubt anyone can make a full time living off loot scavaging in empire, so you are proposing to penalize enterprising, daring pilots who show some initiative in their travels. you always have the option of deccing their corp or teaching them a lesson about suicide ganking if you are that annoyed.edit: possibly you should give some thought to recruiting those daring enough to grab loot from under your nose?"
"i am posting to inquire as to why we care what jade constantine and not the rest of the csm thinks."
"this goes back to before the vote, when the op couldn't find my post on the main page... see the second post in this thread."
"yeah i know i'm going to be posting about roids, but what you expect?look at it from the perspective of a returning player like myself. 2 years ago i didn't have any real issues finding a roid to mine in any system. now their like rocking horse turds, or the size of a rocking horse turd.it seems ccp have dealt all miners a an ace card at the same time as kicking them in the teeth. when i played last, server population was breaking records at 21,000. they were just releasing the ore ships, and everything looked good for miners. now the server reaches 34,000 almost everyday, and the hulks which **** the covetor are in game. yet the roids themselves have not had any loving, or that's how it seems. too many of the belts in high sec are gone or as good as gone. i've gone round after down time and scanned some of the belts that were not there before dt. and the roids which have spawned are giving me the same numbers back as i saw when i was in my uber osprey. so whats the deal? increase server population by like 50%. and the power of mining ships by a good 400%, but keep the roids spawning at the same rate. i do honestly think the roid re-spawn values need a review. i would say maybe an increase of 200% on popped roids would be a fair and reasonable response to the current climate in game. and for roids that haven't been popped but are still standing maybe 250%.lets be honest more and more people are joining the game, or so it seems. so the infrastructure is going to break, there is more and more demand. but the less and less raw materials as every day goes by."
"95% of null sec roids are not mined at all, go there."
"even low sec had a decent number of roids when i last looked. sure, that would mean having to actually defend yourself, but they are there. and all the pirates are gathering in fw areas."
"i think, in the interests of streamlining the whole csm operation, its probably a good idea.anything rejected by ccp in its current form would be re-opened for discussion, yes?items accepted by ccp would be closed to prevent something that will be looked at overshadowing new issues?however i have two concerns:1, the reply from ccp that something is being worked on, and two years down the road theres no sign of change, while the issue would have been closed to future discussion, as its being looked at.2, csm was setup to filter the concerns of the playerbase and to come up with big ideas. what happens if an issue important to a large proportion of the playerbase isnt picked up by a csm member and how can we come up with big ideas without knowing what is and what is not in the ballpark for change?"
"while i like this idea and would support it, i would like to propose an idea of coming up with a balancing list as a single proposal, and allotting the whole list  as a single proposal  for one 20 minute time slot. that would allow items that might need to be discussed at least a few minutes to talk about briefly, while ensuring the whole list doesn't take up too much time.looking back, this doesn't seem very different from your idea. i suppose it's just a different way to look at it."
"are we working on things they want to see? as noah mentioned about niggling, is that what we are doing in the dev teams eyes still? are they expecting to see a grander scheme as they had mentioned? i for one am guilty of the \"niggling\". as much as i want to present a larger picture or something, i can't get by the small crap that has been driving us nuts for years. i think if we can see what ccp/dev team would like to see from us in a tl;dr fashion i think we can narrow the niggling a bit and maybe get some quicker responses."
"right now, anything that is rejected by ccp, is discussed why, and alternative solutions would be but in place. that was how we did it in iceland. but the new format will probably not make that all that much viable. so i think we will have to wait and see, as i can't give you a 100% correct answer, since the statistical value of our previous experience, is extremely insignificant. items that are accepted by ccp, usually takes very little time to discuss again, that is how it went in iceland. but that is no promise it will be true in the next 2 meetings too . 1. i understand what you are saying. but i think we will have to accept, that ccp is a company large one too, 300+ employees  that is extremely agile in it's process. so we can't change that. there will always be features, which will take years to get into the game.but i think it's extremely important to facilitate further discussion. and i like to think that we are doing a decent job of that. it could be better, but i think that will change in csm 2, once we have the csm format in place.2. well, this is always a large concern for me. the community should not be filtered only monster-trucks and the like should though . but right now, we do following:a. we pick up top 2-3, of all issues being discussed, based on the amount of support. this means we will always be talking about the \"hot\" topics.b. we are forced to pick up on issues which have support worth 25% of the total voter-base. i think this is quite steep, but if the community really wants something to happen, it's possible.but it's also something that i struggle with, sir. it's hard to find out what is in the ballpark for change. so what i do, if there is anything that might even be relevant for csm, i post it in the csm forum."
"you have to view it from ccp's point of view, fixing niggling things is basically farming the base   existing players   its not profitable, where as grand idea's can attract new subs... its all about buzz these days."
"i obviously wasn't in iceland with you, but if your description of the process is accurate, there needs to be streamlining for the issues that just don't need 20 minutes of discussion. this sounds like a good method of doing so."
"although the community is concerned about balancing issues, i just don't see how the csm can effectively translate those concerns to ccp. when you have half the players calling for a nano-nerf  for example  and the other half saying it's fine, what is the csm going to do? ship balance isn't the kind of thing that can be legislated, it really takes devs to make it work.it's one thing to say \"we want less incentives for blobbing\" or even \"speed is better than everything else and that's a problem\". but very soon you cross the line into \"ship x is useless\" and finally topics like \"the crane needs more powergrid\" are taking up as much time as big picture issues like factional warfare and bounty hunting.obviously there's cases to be made for all sorts of balance issues, and this isn't to say that they aren't great arguments - but frankly it's a waste of the csm's time to get into nitpicking when ccp has already said they want to hear big ideas for them to figure out how to implement, and balance issues are just a distraction from that important task.in the end there just needs to be another outlet for these kinds of things, it shouldn't be done through the csm."
"i, for one, have been very happy with what has resulted from the csm meetings so far. i expected this was going to be a rocky process, especially with ccp giving so little in the way of guidelines. reading through all the meeting minutes has shown a huge improvement in organization, which i believe will only lead to better things.i'm just posting to say that it would be nice if the meeting complete post were edited into the op, so that when going back to read old minutes it would be quick and easy to review the chatlog without having to shop through the whole thread looking for it.also, i am unclear as to the format of the op. there is a section for the popular issue taken from the assembly hall, but i don't actually see anything being filled into that space. does someone from the community need to submit a template for it, or should there be a csm who's job is to select and write up the popular issue, or is that section even necessary?"
"signed."
"/agree"
"/agreed"
"this is the closest we have for a voting tool, so please give your support here if you are against the nano nerf detailed in the recent dev blog.if you support this thread, please check the 'support' checkbox when replying, you cannot just reply or your vote will not count!update:the patch is being released on tuesday 11/11/2008, despite this being the most supported topic in the whole forum! voice your outrage, people!patchnotes are available here..."
"againstthese ideas nerf way to many 'non nano' ships to call it a nano nerf....heck, just title it as a drake boost--edited below this line--ccp are going to nerf nano there is no two ways about this.they propose something so crazy that there is such an out cry so when they finally offer their real ideas ppl will say \"ok its still bad, but not as bad as it could have been\". i do the same thing at work when i want 2 weeks holiday, i ask for 3."
"against definitly !"
"against"
"against, very much so. unless cpp want to give me my isk and sp back.... oh wait, no just against. don't ruin the game cpp. at least fix your server before you force everyone into blob vs blob warfare."
"signed.we need nano nerf but not this, web and scrambler idiotism."
"againstsmall gang warfare must prevail."
"against!this nerf is ruining the game play, oh and all the time people put into skills/mods/implants to go faster is wasted?"
"signed"
"against"
"yeah, i have to come down firmly on the side of against on this one.as many people have said, this is not a \"nano-nerf\" this is just a \"nerf everything in sight that has to do with speed\".if ccp thinks the speed in some ship types  and/or specific module/implant combinations  are a problem, they need to address those specific areas; not every single thing in the game that has to do with speed.this is just an utter fail way of going about it."
"who said we got a vote on this?will we get back 8x heatsink geddon if enough will vote for it?we got devs and csm for that. i am pro ship class balancing and speed adjustments  posting in every thread i like to "
"against"
"remember to click that you support the topic!else your \"votes\" are pretty useless."
"quoting an epic post:"
"against"
"again someone bends it all to suit their own purposes, this is not a simple yes or no topic. most respectable pvp'ers know that nano's need balancing. that consisting off brining polycarbs inline with their module counterparts and stopping cruisers getting over ~5km/s sans vaga. this does however exclude screwing over normal nano cruisers in the 3-4km/s range.so no, like most i don't oppose balance. i do however dislike random ******ed changes and mass nerf batting."
"i am soooo tired of paying my monthly sub fee to get nerfed......yeah, big time against on this one...."
"against"
"qft. change is needed, in very specific areas. but this nuke-nerf is not the way. big time \"no\" on the changes as they have been suggested so far."
"against ofc"
"against go to hell ccp"
"i'm against this nerf"
"ccp are crazy ... against"
"they are fixing speed by removing it and taking away blaster ships at the same time."
"against. this is not the way, this is going to kill off pvp using ships smaller than bs/bc. not all of us like flying bricks. words fail."
"againstdevs should play the game a littlethe speeds are quite balanced right nowjust take a look at killboards. they are full of popped nanoshipshow come they die that often if they are \"invincible\""
"....."
"i think it's tragic how ccp is talking about fixing the effect, without even mentioning the cause.it was obvious that nano needed nerfing, as speeds over 7-8k breaks the physics engine. but i will remind you all, the dev blog was just an idea, for which they wanted feedback. so it's not even sure, that it will happen."
"we will signed if the ccp make a smart idea for fixing.but this idea will make the game to ruin.the devs will make unuseable the all matar and half of gallente ships and overpowering the caldari ships.we dont wanna this. looking another ideas like a script for mwd aka. lesser throttle = lesser cap penalty or something.stacking speed modules ok.lesser mwd throttle ok.  300-350% maybe would be enough web nerf a stupid things, when a web can kill the nanos.scrambler mwd off effect stupid thing too with 8km range."
"against the nerf, this is crazy this will make the game drake,raven-online."
"this is not a \"balancing\", it is a complete removal of speed as a tactic at all in this game. maybe poly rigs need to be brought in line with their t2 counterparts, but instead of actually nerfing the specific problem, the suggested \"fix\" blatantly nerfs every possible aspect of speed, which is rediculous.the fact that ccp seem to think that t2 rigs and hg snake sets are the \"normal\" thing for speed pilots to have just goes to show they are far removed from their own game. if speed is removed from this game to the extreme that they are suggesting, pvp becomes nothing more than, sit still-launch missle-win. drakes and ravens will be kings, they already are extremely difficult to kill  if fitted correctly for the engagment  in nano ships.as someone said in the enourmous thread, ccp need to actually look into and show statistics and data on the supposed nano ship problem, instead of just counting on the tales of crying players who get their horribly fit raven ganked by hacs while ratting in the open with hostiles in system."
"let pvpers decide the fate of pvp in eve."
"i like a lot of the individual changes being proposed. the redistribution of ship speeds by class, the polycarbon nerf, and the elimination of mass reduction are all likely to be good things, and i can see the web nerf and the meta>0 mwd nerf being good things as well, though i'm less sure of those. but so many more of the individual changes are utterly wrong. people spend billions on snakes, and destroying their value this thoroughly seems a mistake. boosters aren't as expensive, but them having utility seems a good thing, and sig radius just isn't as important as speed. if they're underused, you don't nerf them. similarly, if you're willing to give up 300+ dps of heavy drones, an 83% web is not unreasonable, and so nerfing the virtually unusable web drones is a mistake. and the scram change, while interesting on paper, just seems foolish - mwds aren't a problem inside 9 km because of webs , they're a problem at 15-20. furthermore, their whole approach seems flawed. speaking for myself, i don't want a speed nerf. nerfbats are unsubtle, uninteresting, and just serve to **** off people who have invested a lot of time and money into doing things in a way that is no longer possible. what i want is a countermeasure worth a damn. right now, i can think of exactly one module a generic non-nano ship can fit to counter a nano ship, and that's a heavy neut, not counting funky faction webs and stuff. there's no t2 ammo that provides a tracking bonus an ideal role for tremor/gleam/javelin, imo , there's no web with enough extra range for less than 200 million, there's really nothing. that's the problem - the only decent counter that lets you actually kill a nano hac is an interceptor. add an anti-nano t2 ammo, and maybe change webs such that a higher meta adds range instead of speed reduction - t2 webs doing -50% at 20 km would be almost enough by itself and change the paladin and kronos to 10% web effect, to keep the 2-in-1 effect . but don't just say \"everything speed-based has got to go\" and assume that's a fix, let alone the right fix. cutting all speeds in half doesn't nerf nanos worth a damn, it just buffs bubbles.and to stave off whining, the only ship i've ever speed-fit is an ares.also, thanks to the op for posting these threads in such a clean fashion."
"give us the means to fight the blob again"
"another thoughtless \"solution\" from ccp that will ultimately do more harm than good, and imbalance the gameplay more than it currently is.i am for well thought out solutions! the suggested changes are anything but."
"i'm sure all of the other people in this thread and other will give reason as to why this is a terrible idea. i choose not to because it's so infuriating that i want to fly to iceland and beat the devs senseless."
"we all had it coming, so come on folks, let's just suck it up and use your own words...adapt"
"the dev's clearly don't play their own game.4billion is vaga is clearly a standard fit  and the fit was **** aswell! "
"against in it's implementation outlined in the original devblog but probably not for the reason you would expect.this sums up most of the points quite nicely though."
"if this nerf would happen it would ruin the game for everyone i know in eve this is idiotism speeds just as they are now are ****in good dont **** this up for everyone this will cause total chaos"
"i am against the nano nerf the way it stands now."
"\o nerf the new dev blog"
"against/signed"
"against"
"again-st"
"have to agree with this. 0.0 combat is already dying to the endless blob and curse of absolute defense advantage. this nerf to speed should never ever be implemented on the live server before there are significant anti blob/distributed sovereignty attack measures enacted for 0.0 space. current situation with nano-ships and speed is not driving significant numbers of people to actually quit the game of eve-online. removing any opportunity for non blob warfare in 0.0 without addressing any of the issues with blobs and mindless lagfest hotdrop warfare in 0.0 will actually drive pvpers out of eve and its not in the interest of the game in any way shape or form.anti-nano whine brigade will end being the straw that broke the camels back in 0.0.speaking personally i don't actually mind many of the changes on the table in and of themselves - but they are simply a terrible idea in the context of actual warfare on the live server in nullsec right now. i can't support any gameplay change that will further increase blob power and defensive bonus in 0.0 and so if we ever get a change to make a decision on this on the csm i'll be voting against it and expressing my opinion on the matter in the strongest possible terms to the developers."
"why are the pvp'ers always adapting. we use ecm, you whine for a nerf and it gets nerfed. we use damps, you whine for a nerf and ccp nerfs it. we use nos, you whine for a nerf and, omg guess what, it gets nerfed. we are always adapting. always coming up with new ways to make your sorry excuse for an eve life miserable. so the nano nerf really won't change anything. telling a pvp'er to adapt is like telling a shark to swim, he's doing it anyway."
"against"
"/for some of the changessuch as reducing the agility in mwd use and scramblers being able to shut them downthat's a proper use of counters which i can appreciate."
"its totaly crap"
"i'm not too bothered about speed being nerfed  although i dispise the fact that ccp are nerfing skirmish mods when it's a tool that is used by a very small number of people and those people who do use it have likely spent the best part of a year skilling to help their gang mates  , but i don't like the way in which this is being achieved with a shotgun nerf to pretty much all things related to speed.there's no way to predict the outcome of making this many changes  no, not even on sisi  at once when the problem could likely be mitigated with one or more well placed changes instead of a blanket of poor decisions"
"against nerf!"
"against"
"nice nerf. uncommonly well thought-out change from ccp's side.../vote against those who against nerf"
"nerf lag's better"
"against"
"against"
"very much against"
"i want to unistal eve..: so pls pls pls do it..: and we close the corp sell the charachters items whateverdo it..: wts ice again..: finally..: "
"signed, another great example of ccp looking for an overhanded fix instead of adjusting the cause.ccp, ask yourself this:why do people fly nano ships?"
"against, as this pushes the game even more into a numbers game that it already can't support"
"/signed.it feels like ccp are nerfing small scale combat more and more for every patch just so that larger alliances can protect their space even more effectivly."
"signed"
"balance speed eh? more like remove nano fits from the game. i really hope this doesn't go ahead. i agree some things need ot be looked at but the proposals go too far."
"signed"
"against"
"/me againstremember about nano-hac prices, mkay?"
"i am against the nerf in it's current form as detailed in the dev blog.i think it can be done less intrusive and less damaging."
"against. maybe the time spent thinking up those stupid ideas could have been spent thinking of ways to reduce lag in large scale pvp?"
"against"
"i fully support that only viable setups for hacs and css, even for those of them that are not made to be speedtanked, being a speed setup, should be nerfed. and that ships larger than frigates  and frigs t2 cousins  should never reach speeds at which they can avoid 99.99% of all incoming damage and completely break the \"commit to pvp\" idea of eve by being able to disengage at will.however, ccps proposed fix will break to many things, all at once. they should at most add/fix/tweak stacking penalties for polycarbons, nerf snakes a bit not halve them, and should rework ship base speeds/masses/agilities.so. ccps proposal in full. not supported."
"well... i'm not quite against speed nerf, but i'm for sure against making 2in1 scrambler module  make a new one if you rly have to block mwd  and web nerf  nerfing nano counter module sux?  - it wont affect nano it will affect all kinds of warfare prolly making disbalance"
"against the nerf the way they are trying to do it.for the gradual rebalancing of ship velocities and speed module bonii."
"against for nano nerf."
"against for nano nerf too..."
"on the other hand, web nerf is suggest because webs are considered uber mods, and at the same time we should get a new 2 in 1 kinda uber mod.it is ridiculous! and i strongly agree that this only cause more disbalance.edit: yes, against : "
"for"
"nerf it! viva la ccp"
"against!!!"
"qftagainst"
"against! my corp will get a tonne more kills if the nerf goes as planned...but it benefits the large blobs far too much."
"against"
"against."
"dont kill rapier!"
"hey guys they spent 5 hours talking about it - i mean 5 hours"
"singed"
"/against"
"against"
"signed"
"against  even if i do not fly nano ships . may be a very little fix is possible, but not such hard as planned."
"diaf"
"esad"
"in soviet russia, awox is *your* alt"
"hey, i have more accounts so my opinion matters more."
"/signed, will post with all 29 accounts in a random fashion.loledit"
"supportin dis."
"againstnerf lag & blob better"
"being a pure gallente pilot i am pretty against changes that make it even easier to kite me outside of falloff."
"nice post, fully supported"
"support this thread"
"i'm against the nano nerf.do some ships and setups go too fast? yes - this patch should be looking to bring down the extreme speeds of some setups that have things like boosters, full-grade snakes, t2 polys, the like. but, at the same time, it shouldn't smack \"average\" nanoships very hard, the ones with no snakes, t1 polys, and max skills.the 7.5km scrambler is also a completely idiotic idea. it will seriously gimp deimos and similar ships, ironically enough giving their cousin the arazu an overpowered ability to both scram a target and keep it from running with a single module."
"against!"
"against"
"against"
"small, medium and large ships are pretty balanced right now."
"my nano backbone!"
"against"
"against!!"
"alt"
"3 times against!"
"altalt"
"altaltalt"
"against!"
"ching chong wing wong"
"against!"
"fully supporting. nano nerf will result in more blobs."
"planed changes are good."
"against"
"ccp send please your drugs which smoke."
"against"
"against"
"againstnerf blob laaggs and cloak better..."
"why not reduce armor and shield amount of non-nano ships while you're at it"
"/signedccp will kill pilot mastery!i don't wanna be mooooo!"
"signed"
"signed."
"signed"
"oh, i'm against"
"no nerf meh blasterbots"
"against."
"against !!!"
"against the nuclear nerf. four guys spent five hours and came up with crap as can be expected by such a small allocation of resource to such a complex and difficult problem. this colossal nerf affects so much more than speed, it's not the least bit funny.on a positive note; if they release this nerf onto tranquility, there will be far less of a lag problem. fewer people playing = less lag. as for myself, i won't have to put up with any lag at all.........or eve or ccp.windjammer"
"ccp nerf the lags!!!against the nano nerf."
"what an utterly idiotic suggestion ccp. it'd be nice if you actually took pvp seriously once in a while.against."
"i vote for the change!and since when do we need votes on anything? if its a game balancing/breaking issue i could give a rats ass- if i were the dev team- about any number of votes to either side. if i  the dev team  think the game needs to be rebalanced then i do it. whiners be damned. i do it for the greater good, not one group or the other. and since we all know the dev team said that their engine and combat was nevr setup for these speeds, and they neeeded to change some stuff, our votes really dont mean $hit. they are changing the game becasue it needs it. not becasue we vote yes or no."
"no they're changing game because of some fail fw noob players who cant counter nanos. make it a mining game wee!say no to nerf"
"against."
"against !!!"
"against.this nerf kills a lot of tactics in pvp."
"against"
"1.0"
"against"
"against"
"i'm against them implementing all of these changes at once. pick a few, slow things down a bit, and reasses the situation then."
"against"
"against"
"the dev's as usual got it all wrong. no to the nano nerf"
"against"
"against"
"signedbad ccp bad boyz"
"against"
"doublepost, plz delete."
"against"
"against.there's plenty of anti-nano modules, ships and tactics out there already.nerf the multibillion snake set if you want, few people will notice it, but don't touch the t2 modules."
"against"
"against"
"against nerfing the minnies like this but i do support a moderate speed debuff to those ships that are not supposed to be nanoed."
"against.after doing some math on the supposed new changes, they completely undervalue the basics of pvp that people have had padded down for years now.you dont do something soe did with swg, ccp. you saw what that did to the game. do you want the same to happen to eve?"
"/signedtoo halfbaked and completely missing the problem, don't like it"
"if my vagabond setup is only going to do 3.3km/s and be able to be caught by any tech 1 frigate with a half-decent mwd fit...i am going to say i am completely against the changes in this form. change one thing at a time, maybe. but if ccp plans to make both of my minmatar spec'd characters completely useless for anything but flying maelstroms  which require a gang to be useful ... i may as well re-roll and train amarr."
"against"
"against<U+043F><U+043E>"
"/signedneeds some more re-thinking!"
"against"
"awefawef"
"im a tri alt, i support this thread."
"against."
"save the nanos!!"
"guys i want to fly in really slow ships all day and be forced to outblob the other side even more. **** that."
"i wonder if i can vote with multiple characters on an account"
"sweet."
"z"
"..."
"o"
"r"
"i'm not saying no nano nerf, but ffs get a grip ccp and do it properly."
"zzzz"
"signed!"
"z"
"o"
"/signed"
"r"
"/signed... think before you ruin small gangs."
"against"
"dear ccp save nano - the funniest thing in da game that made eve so unique."
"z"
"0.0"
"this sounds about like it should be."
"r"
"6t65tr5y6"
"against.fast ships are the best counter against blobs.without fast ships,the blob wins,again."
"rtttrt"
"i support what he is saying... i might fly a gankathron, but it's not exactly \"fun\" and hardly adrenaline pumping, since all i have to do is put out more dps than the other guy edit: page 8 snipa"
"last i checked, no ones forcing you to. if youre tired of paying for eve...then stop. before you do, give me all ur ****. you wont be needing it where youre going. wow has plenty of room for people like you."
"fvfvvfv"
"against."
"against"
"against...."
"how many times has a ship that you really like flying been nerfed and made your time or sp completely ****in useless?boosting the falcon again was the only thing ccp has done for a ship that i'm speccd to fly, and it'll get nerfed again once everyone goes to flying ecm boats since they can't avoid damage any other way."
"against"
"against"
"support"
"against"
"not for"
"i am against that nerf."
"i dont want nerf mi nanos"
"against"
"i support this thread!"
"this"
"."
"totally against this nano nerf"
"im against the nerf"
"i'm fully against the nerf"
"against"
"why don't blob bears actually start working for their kills for once..."
"i don't fly nano ships and i think this nerf is un needed"
"nerf means bb vaga, bb rapier, bb hugin, bb all minmatar. well done ccp, well done !"
"lookit all these worthless fuggen posters.if you don't test it out, your opinion is worthless.since nobody can test it yet, you're all worthless."
"against"
"if you oppose this you're stupid or in the caldari militia.either way, stupid."
"i'm against the idea of nerfing nanos.... if your gonna nerf the nanos only nerf snakes"
"i support this thread!"
"i am against speed nerf !"
"/me against nano-nerf !"
"i support a more thought out approach rather than massive nerfing. im against the nerf outlined in the dev blog"
"against"
"dont support this nerf one bit it will only encourage bigger blobs and more lag"
"/signed"
"i'm against the nano nerf"
"against."
"nerf snakes.everything else is fine, ccp... not everyone runs around with polycarbs and snakes on their nanoships. some people who fly nano's can lose ships and are easily killed all the time.like the poster above me said, you are further encouraging blobs.... stop it."
"against the speed nerf"
"against this unbelievably huge cluster nerf. you wanna nerf top end speed, then do it. not all this other stuff as well."
"terrible changes"
"putting my support in against the nano nerf"
"the way this change is done is unacceptable"
"horrible nerf ccp, supporting this thread"
"i'm against the nano-nerf in the current form!"
"i support this thread"
"im definitly against proposed changesspeed could use balanced changes in a way that it remains viable tactic not trashed into oblivion like they are suggesting now"
"now who do you suppose such a huge nerf will benefit? goonswarm and their blob tactics? naaaawwww. couldn't be.windjammer"
"i'm against the nano nerf"
"against!"
"no nano nerf."
"ccp, can i have your stuff?"
"against nano-nerf. i think that scrambler idea  maybe a little modified  is great though bringing some life back to gallente recons. ecm should be looked at imho, but most of all lag issues."
"fix t2 missiles and don`t nerf roaming pvp."
"against the nerf in current form."
"against"
"the official stance of the internet is that it is opposed to anything that is opposed to anything with f@g in it. as such we are against the nerf."
"against nerf"
"against."
"against"
"supported"
"i'm against the nano nerf"
"against nerf."
"voting against the nerf in its current form."
"against ccp's fail ideas"
"against"
"now who do you suppose is a stupid pubbie crying tears over nerfs during their conception stage."
"against"
"against or i will cancell my 2 accounts"
"if someone were to propose the banning of goonswarm, something aweful, etc. from eve, what would your response be? we need to test it on sisi to determine if it's a bad idea? i think not.windjammer"
"goodbye!!i find it verry funny that fron the looks of everyone against..ignoring alts.... that 70+% or so of all those against come from 3 or so alliances....adapt or die nano***s."
"against"
"against or i will cancell my 2 accounts"
"against or i will cancell my 2 accounts"
"against nerf!"
"against nano-nerf."
"against"
"nano needs to be dealt with but buff the counters don't remove the cause. no matter what you might think speed is *fun*... and fun is important.a lot of what is proposed is completely over the top. consider perhaps a hictor script which has a slight web effect or something of that nature... the mwd nerf is ott. and don't get me started on the web nerf..."
"free gneeznow!"
"so against this. nerf speed, not all of eve."
"nerf nanos!"
"for the nerf. even though it might require quite a bit balancing before releasing it on tq."
"against nano-nerf."
"goodbye nano ships. i won't miss you one bit."
"i do not support this topic.as all of you nanoers were so fond of saying, \"stfu and adapt, n00bs.\""
"nano ships are good as they are now. and as everything in eve they can be countered with the right thinking  and i don't mean more speed ."
"against nano nerf"
"way too much. fix polys, evaluate after a month or two and see if more nerfing is required. you're changing too much too quickly."
"just nerf all nano equipment same way as warp core stabs with a lock range and or penalty per module fitted ie overdrive polycarb etc means u can still rig for speed for running away but pretty crap for pvp. it worked for the core stabs dont see people flying with 4 stabs on now. i'm more concerned with halving the webber penalty that sucks makes huggins a pile of crap : "
"against"
"even rni pilot is against it.p.s. guys plx dont forget click on checkbox \"support this topi\". it makes your vote usefull"
"against"
"against who will kill me if there is no more nano ?so definetly against for more fun"
"dont ****ing nerf it"
"against"
"against"
"totally against this \"killer - eve online\" nerf ! if this will happen i bet lots of players will leave the eve-game comunity."
"against"
"against"
"o much against"
"against"
"against"
"against nanonerf"
"againstnano bs is stupid, but nurfing most if not all nano ships gimps alot of ppl, minmatar pilots specifically since most their smaller ships have to be speed tankedwhile i'm all for a nurf on poly carbs, and even a nurf on implants, nurfing all of it and this \"we're going to gimp mwd's straight into the grave\" however, is going to screw way to many many ships... and i dont look forward to the day when drakes become the next big thing for pvp <.<"
"."
"against..looks like ccp used a shotgun approach to this problem.while i don't deny that nanos needs adjusting, some of the of the proposed fixes  i.e webs/scram changes  are going to cause more problems and eventully more whines "
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"pls wen you reply to this topic check the box who says suport this topic or your vote woud be worthlees !!! check the inbox!! pls!!!"
"i am against the majority of the proposed changes.as a ship builder many of these changes will effectively kill off the demand for many of the ships and mods that i produce  i.e blasterboats and many minmatar ships as a pvper these changes stand to consolidate the viable playstyles and make the \"sandbox\" that we all play in much smaller.yes nanos need a change or an adjustment..but the proposed drivel that was proposed is going to cause many more problems than it solves.."
"against"
"against"
"disagree: the scram change actually makes that mod useful again. nobody uses them because why bother when you can put a point out to 25km with a disruptor.and the web change is more like an ab boost. befor a web would kill a ship with an ab. now a tackler can slow down a ship with a mwd by i think 92%  turning off his mwd and webbing  but the same tackler can only slow down an ab equiped ship by 50-60%. which for a small frig orbiting, 400m/s is still plenty fast to avoid turrets in a close orbit."
"against"
"against"
"against! this will destroy all the fun in eve."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against!"
"against"
"against"
"against of course"
"against!!"
"against!!"
"against!!!!!!!!!! its our death, dont do it!"
"against that stupid nerf"
"against!!wtf!"
"against"
"+1, wtg ccp"
"duh..."
"against"
"against!!!"
"speed is the only way to get through gatecamps. kill speed, and you kill the ability to solo... kill the ability to run from overwhelming blobs... make numbers > all."
"against"
"against!!!"
"but im too stuipid to killz a naanz fighatre!"
"bloody signed."
"against!"
"against. i can see it to a slight degree but shanking nanos in total just promotes that lag inducing thing we call bs blob warfare...boring. keep it interesting ccp! they're a pita to catch but i think we have fun doing it. ;p"
"against!"
"dumb on so many levels i don't have time to describe 'em... kills solo  disposable alt scout != solo , makes jumping into a fleet an even bigger disadvantage, makes numbers even more important.dumb."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"againsthowever, snakes are overpowered."
"against. snakes are a bit overpowered however."
"signed, againstits time to nerf ccp's salary"
"against"
"against"
"against."
"if you support this thread, please check the 'support' checkbox when replying, you cannot just reply or your vote will not count!"
"against. nanos are the only way this game actually gives the sensation of \"flying\" your ship.more, imho this nerf will ruin what's been done by the \"need for speed\" philosophy and it withdrwas focus for the actual skill of the pilot. so, vote against this nano-nerf and against ccp's \"shooting-your-own-foot\" dev's that contradict the whole game's spirit and the previous work.cheers"
"against"
"this be wack yo!"
"i approve this message... i vote no on the nano nerf."
"zogm wtf! nononono"
"againstif this goes ahead, then this cements the way this game is fast becoming supercaps/blob online.."
"nerf it, nerf the biggest blob creator ever made as well the dictor"
"i support most of the nano nerf, but if it is going to go through with the mwd-killing 7.5km scramblers motion, then i see no other option but to block it as this part does not solve the speed problem; all it does is destroy blasterboats.i have voted in support of both the for and against threads for this reason."
"against"
"against."
"nerfing nano weill result in runnig out of solo pvp.against."
"i'm against the nano nerf and so is my wife."
"nanos are the fun part of eve. against."
"against of course."
"againstdead 2 cerbers"
"against."
"against"
"just for know, gm's do another thing than missions in this game ?? are they trying to do some pvp sometime ?against !!!!"
"against"
"against."
"against"
"against"
"againstwhat needs nerf: polycarbons  rest is fine "
"against.being for would involve supporting blobs and caps online."
"against"
"against"
"against, once again ccp kneejerk nerfing,"
"against"
"you do realize the first thing they did in the need for speed initiative was to nerf speed the first time.....right? because everything moving soo fast puts a strain on the servers and makes lag much more pronounced..."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"signed.this will only encourage more blobbing and lag fights."
"against"
"removes snakes, apply stacking thast fine but ccp is altering too many parameters everytime. devs get a hobby or something."
"signed"
"against"
"againt"
"changes are too extreme."
"againstsmall gangs will be killed if it does go through"
"against"
"against"
"against - because it only works well in theory if 2 opposing people happen to have stations nearby each other. any distance fights with lots of jumps = blobfest or refusal to engage."
"against"
"what people are railing against isn't a nano nerf, its this nano nerf, ccp is taking it too far  reminds me of a surgeon trying to remove a tumor with a sledge hammer, would be better off with a scalpel wouldn't he? . btw: 300 people have supported this thread at least  350+ with those who failed to check the support box  while in the other thread about 100 people have supported. going with this, it seems like a lot more people don't want this fix, than the number of people who want itedit: page 15 snipa! \"boom headshot\""
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against the nano nerf.seriously ccp wake up..."
"against"
"against for sure"
"against"
"against"
"i am in pl so obviousley agains it :- "
"against the nano nerf. in a game where capitals can just sit there in docking range tanking a fleet and kill rediculous numbers of ppl then just deagress and click dock, we need the ability to get them out of docking range or solo station camping in capitals becomes overpowered.the balance in this game atm the moment is nearly perfect. spend tons of isk on a well fit expensive battleship, mods, and implants, and you can kill that carrier or dread that costs less than your bumping ship.i admit that i havnt been playing eve for the last few months but i intend on coming back to the game, and i have kept both of my accounts active durring the time ive been gone.everyone knows i love extremly fast ships and i swear to god: ccp if you make my machariel slow, i will not start playing your game again in 3 months when my dsl arrives. furthermore i will cancel my accounts that i have kept paid for and active since you would be taking away the one thing that makes this game fun for me."
"against"
"against. simply because it doesn't seem very well thought out to me, a solution to silly km/sec is neeeded but surely they can do it without completely chaning pvp dynamics all over again."
"signed!"
"against!nano nerf ftl!eve will be boredom =/"
"against the nerf, whoever thought of this at ccp should be fired...all that will be left if no nano is blob warfare an we have clearly seen how ccp's server respond to blobs"
"supportin' dis.if they really need to do something, just nerf snakes and polys... they've got to be insane to throw these terrible ideas out there."
"against!"
"yep basically there are several very important areas of the pvp game that need fixing before speed. and i'm definitely against this \"nano-nerf\" coming before such issues as anti-blob measures in 0.0, sovereignty warfare, even de-aggression timers, remote-rep flagging, alliances in faction warfare and even things like loot ownership in pvp. we had a chance at the csm to prioritize these issues and speed-nerfing didn't even make the first cut."
"against."
"against!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"except that most people dont post at all unless they are unhappy.somone said it in a different thread and its probably pretty close to true:90% of people who are happy dont post.90% of people that are unhappy post.its why when there was no nerf on the horizon, the forums were filled with people complaining about nano's, and only a few people responded to them in defence of nanoing all the time. generally regurgitating the same tired \"counters\" to nano's which all entailed either flying a bs so you could fit a hvy neut, or flying a nano yourself... those were not counters, its pidgeonholing.i'm for the changes because it rebalances the ships. those that were meant to be fast still will be, inties and frigs. cruiser sized ships wont be as fast as they used to be, they will be catchable by the things meant to catch them, like small drones, the small ships, and some missles.warp scramblers are getting a buff, a good thing cause who used them anyways.the web nerf is actually a ab buff in disguise.... a tacler with a scrambler and a web will slow down a ship with a mwd more than befor, by like 2%, but will only slow down an ab fitted ship by 50-60%.ships will still be able to be fast.... somone did the math in the dev thread on the blog, and the dev was mistaken. it wont take snakes to get a vaga up to 4k, a t2 fit vaga will still pass that without implants."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"."
"against!"
"wow, alt voting ftl...."
"don't worry too much. the csm admins have a way to see how many actual accounts support rather than individual supports  which can obviously be 3 per account . when this gets to the wire we'll be able to call for an accurate indication of player sentiment either way  this and the pro-nerf camp ."
"against it."
"its just plain bull , ruins the entire game."
"thats good to know. i have 2 accounts but still only vote 1x because i'm just 1 person."
"against"
"against it"
"against this change"
"againstspending almost 1 year of skillpoints to have them just made worthless is not my idea of a cool thing"
"against"
"some quotes the ccp should take into consideration."
"image by xaen"
"againstcompletely stupid idea and badly thought out."
"i support nano-nerf"
"100% against nano nerf."
"against"
"i believe the nerf is to heavy handed. they need to readjust it."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against the nerf in its cutrrnt form. i am especially against nerfing my 3 billion worth of implants."
"lol, posting in the anti nerf thread ftl"
"against. i think it could use a little nerfing, however not the the extent in the blog. and why would one make implants that cost 3 billion only to nerf the living f*** outta them and screw gamers out of a lot os isk. that's just not fair."
"against the stupid nerf! ccp is making a mistake."
"against.also...nerf bios."
"against.this nerf kills a lot of tactics in pvp.damn delete this message and dont count delete delete minus minus"
"against"
"i am so against this. my braids are uncurling."
"against"
"no thanks."
"i havent read any of this thread  only the title  buti could live with a nerf to nanos ie make speed mods stack so say you had 2 polys then 2 ods in your lows any other ods/nano/istabs would have little effect but a lot o fthe ideas in the blog seem a bit excessive to say the least, i'll have to wait to see what it's like in actuall game play when it hits sisi but for the momentagainst"
"against"
"this is how people who dont want to do pos ****e anymore fight, try fixing lag and titan crap, tyvm."
"against"
"i vote against."
"no ner***e"
"against nerf"
"i support dis 'fred!"
"well against, this nerf idea is a joke and a discrace to a good game."
"ccp need to fix all the overpowered advantages  cyno jammers, system scanners, jump bridges  that they've given to the big 0.0 territory holders before they mess with the only tactic that currently makes it viable for a smaller corporation to take on the complacent big boys. if these changes go through, the only solution to the jump bridged blob will be a bigger blob."
"just.. no to these changes, far too many changes for a single nerf and in the process weakening the minmatar hacs and recons too much."
"too harsh.ballance can't be achieved this way"
"so much worse in game needs to be fixed first."
"against"
"against the nerf in its current form."
"againstthis nerf completely eliminates any role that speed based pvp had, it would be completely unfeasible for any ship bigger than a frigate to engage in speed based pvp, including those that are designed for it  stabber/vaga/rapier/huginn/macherial it practically eliminates any role that matar ships may have had and leaves that race without a purpose and without any competitive ships outside the the frigate class."
"too much, too fast, and is like a headshot to the handful of decent minmatar shipshuginn/rapier -> webs suck and gallente recons can do their role as well nowvaga -> dead in the waterstabber -> same as vagaat best, the rest of our ships are all also-rans at best, terrible at worst"
"against - my only caveat is that i think snakes are a bit overpowered, but your average pilot doesnt have billons of isk of implant in their head. nerfing a whole style of tactics just because of this is stupid."
"/signed"
"againstgoing way to far"
"absolutely against the nerf.add a new module, the microwarpdrive disruptor. leave everything else as is."
"i like it, yeah"
"i like this idea- gob"
"i would really like this things back  and working this time "
"thumbs up"
"/signed"
"."
"train a long skill and they have been working on server performance quite a bit actually. if you have better ideas for how to do it you should apply for a job."
"this is the closest we have for a voting tool, so please give your support here if you are for the nano nerf detailed in the recent dev blog.if you are against the nano nerf, please show your support in the sister topic.if you support this thread, please check the 'support' checkbox when replying, you cannot just reply or your vote will not count!"
"support! :d"
"i support the nano nerf. even though i sympathize with those players who spend billion in their ships it shouldn't make them invulnerable no matter what and nano is just that. for those who say that they have the right to be invulnerable because they spent billions on their ships well eve is not about who has the fatter wallet right ?i believe this nano nerf is going to bring diversity to gameplay in eve while still allowing speed as a viable tactic but not the ultimate tactic. i also read lots of the posts on the comments of the devblog and tbh the majority of those who are against this nerf seem to be players who have adapted nano warfare as their only method of pvp and forgot that eve is all about diversity of tactics so for those people i say i am sorry but i am not convinced by your point of view.also for the argument that nano appeared to counter blob warfare guess what right now the way things are we are heading toward nano blob warfare which i believe would kill eve. and i do believe that nano is one of the main reasons solo pvp has died out too.it may be painful this nano nerf but the way i see its better now while the majority of eve doesn't nano because that was definitly where we were heading to, and if that happened it would have been too late.by the way i just bought a nano ship a few days ago and i have trained a lot of skill just to be able to fly it. oh well i will just have to find another use for it now and i am sure those skills will help in some way or another i will just have to adapt"
"withdrawing my support. although speed does need to be controlled, the changes on sisi are too many and complex. a fix should concentrate on the causes of \"ludicrous speed\" - mwd speed boosts, implants, gang bonuses and polycarbons. adding the sweeping mass/speed changes and scrambler changes in at this stage just confuses the issue."
"although a speed freak myself, i must agree with the adjustments being made here.the real shame is that more people will have to think about strategy and tactics now *shudder*"
"yey bout time"
"nerf it!"
"supporting a nano-nerf, provided that they balance speed tanking as a realistic proposition for smaller vessels against armour/shield tanking for larger vessels. obviously smaller ships like frigates can't really soak up the kind of punishment that the larger ships can so they should still be able to use speed to the degree that they're reasonably protected  though not invulnerable  against heavier ships.the way to deal with these ships should be to take them on with ships of the same class, frigate dogfights.interceptors should gain limited protection against the proposed changes to warp scramblers, they're meant to be the kings of speed after all."
"about time"
"as much as i'm a nano *****, my only big worry is the web changes.otherwise, ha!we adapt. how many times did the nanophags slap everyone in the face with that word? now bitter it tastes, now, to have someone snatch it out of their hands and beat them about the head with it.adapt."
"support."
"nerf them"
"i'm for the change. i mean really wait for sisi but doing the math i still get my vaga to go 3200m/s easily.why do you need to go 20,000m/s in a cruiser jezz."
"to hell with 40,000m/s interceptors!"
"support."
"yeppers."
"wewt."
"support"
"pro shipclass balancing and nerfed webbers along to adjust speed how it was meant to be"
"i'm all for giving fast ships their role back."
"/support"
"support"
"support"
"support. speed should be one element of tactics, not the only element."
"ohh ye do it need more noobs in eve..: \o/wts ice..: oh and i hate you all..: "
"big support!"
"support"
"not supported. nanoes must be nerfed, mwd being mandatory must be nerfed, only viable setups for hacs being nano should be nerfed, afterburners complete uselessness should be fixed; but ccp will break to many things all at once by current extreme proposals.do the base speed tweak. change stacking penalties for polycarbs. nerf snakes a bit, not that much.maybe just maybe give those heavy precisions a bit more explo velocity. and stop right there and wait for results."
"i missed the minmatar in there though, think they should be at least mentioned as they are the 'speed faction'."
"yeah big support for people who dont know how to fight with nanos, and whine about it all the time! why some high sp chars with lot of hard worked isk, and a lot of spended $ are better than 5m sp noobs! remove pvp, make it mining game weeeee"
"nerf it!!! viva ccp"
"nerf wothout a doubt."
"vote for nerf"
"something should be done."
"support"
"support."
"nerf it!"
"i support pending testing on sisi.akkarin"
"support"
"kill the nano!all for the nerf, although i do believe that careful balancing is needed for some of the aspects brought up in the blog. the levelling off of speed, however, is a no-brainer."
"omg ... evening out the playing field ... support"
"always one brain child ..."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"stfu .. you have your own thread to bltch on big support ... adapt or die"
"gogo nerf"
"no i dont have my own thread, i didnt start any. i can post my opinions where i see fit - adapt or die"
"support!"
"i've been informed that a slapping of the nanos boosts amarr, that can never be a bad thing."
"..."
"support"
"support"
"support pending testing"
"lol @ you.i said i support nano nerf as a idea, but not this nano nerf  and even there i support most of it other than crazy mwd and web changes ."
"down with nano's in '08!!!"
"i dont know if this is the best answer to the problem, but there is a problem and i'm glad ccp is working on a solution."
"/supportlets see what its actually like before the toys go out of the pram shall we?"
"much needed change!"
"nerf them moar"
"i give my full support for this"
"i support this change. swing the nerbat on these nano***s."
"supported"
"supported, but worth relooking at the webbing changes"
"i'm all for it... i'm looking forward to actually using some ab's in pvp."
"support"
"minmatards are too fast and kill innocent amarr. supporting this nerf!"
"support, will have to see how it works out on sisi first though."
"definatly for this!and since when do we need votes on anything? if its a game balancing/breaking issue i could give a rats ass- if i were the dev team- about any number of votes to either side. if i  the dev team  think the game needs to be rebalanced then i do it. whiners be damned. i do it for the greater good, not one group or the other. and since we all know the dev team said that their engine and combat was nevr setup for these speeds, and they neeeded to change some stuff, our votes really dont mean $hit. they are changing the game because it needs it. not becasue we vote yes or no."
"support, yeah for missiles."
"thumbs up"
"signed o/"
"it is obvious that speed has gone outside the original design, hence causing balance issues and cascading problems throughout the game.supported."
"i support the idea in general. a little concerned of the webber changes."
"support"
"let it be"
"support : "
"i support the nano nerf although i'm a bit worried about my blasters... shouldn't hurt them too much though."
"somebody lock this ****. its going onto sisi. if the devs like the changes it brings, they should implement.since it isn't even monday, every single post in this thread is worthless, and i hope the eve devs realize it."
"for :p"
"nerf!!!"
"good point this should instead be in support of it being tested :p"
"support"
"support"
"support"
"unacceptable. too many ships adversely effected in too many ways. not just speed.even if you want to nerf the speed of nano ships, these changes are an extremely bad fix. it's a nerf to agility, not just speed.they would affect the ability of transport ships, cov-ops, etc. to get by blockades.windjammer"
"i totally agree with this statement. and there may still be tweaks to be made, but until we try them out on sisi, we don't know how good the changes will be."
"yeah nerf that invu ships"
"i fully support the nano changes."
"nerf it !!"
"suport"
"we are caldari! we are for this changes! = it wil make a little hardly live of nano pilots and little easyly live of the others. i think... + "
"nano's turn to adapt or die."
"it's a shame you couldn't with nanos..... we had to do it in the last nerf to nanos they did... grow up."
"support"
"yes. diversity in the cosmos."
"nerf it."
"support"
"support. my reasons have all been outlined many times elsewhere."
"support"
"i think what ccp are attempting to accomplish with this nerf is a good thing and the dev blog makes alot of sense. i certainly support this."
"nerf it"
"nerf it"
"having to fit 1 specific module, nano yourself, or fly one races ships to counter nano's is not adapting. its pidgeonholing.adapt or die...."
"it was needed for a long time"
"ok for me"
"i support the nano nerf, but not in its entirety. i support all its motions except one...i do no support the 7.5km scrams deactivating mwds, as this is just too unnecessarily catastrophic to blasterboats, and does nothing to solve the actual speed problem, as the prime offenders will not come closer than 15km anyway."
"nerf is comming ,,, i dont care tbh .. but a change is always nice .."
"support"
"i support this effort, nerf interdictors as well, bring them in-line with thier bigger brother the hic and make it all focused, leave the bubbles to the anchorable structures imo, removes the need for speeding away from the blob as the only viable option"
"it's for the best./ben"
"changes are being put on sisi on monday iirc. its still to early to judge the nerfs before they are tested. anyways i doubt that they would be implemented as they are now. i think ccp has just come up with some radical ideas and will let the forum whiners shape the actual nerfs."
"even if you are for a nano nerf, unless its this specific nerf you want, you should post in the other thread. this affects more than just nanoes.personally i am against this nerf, ccp would do better by adjusting snakes and polycarbs, than nerfing speed as a whole."
"this will be difrent :p"
"kill teh nanoships !!"
"nerf them they ruin the game."
"i support fixing anything broken, even if flying at insane speeds is crazy fun."
"support in generalthe web/ab/mwd/scram thing is...if you're in scram range, you're in web range.oh! i'm going to fit an afterburner and get scram immunity! but i'm in web range...bad idea. bad idea. fix by making web effectiveness have a sig radius/propulsion relationship. thus if you have small thrust of a small ship and the big radius of a mwd ship, you get extra penalty from web. if you have the appropriate ratio given by an ab, you are still at a healthy transverse when webbed.poor thorax."
"all for it"
"i'm not really supporting it as a nano-nerf, because it isn't really that much of a nano nerf. i do support it because this is a semi-direct assault frigate boost and also possibly a gate camp nerf.testing throughout the following month will tell.for now, i motion that the proposed changes be implemented."
"support. over powered nano ship have wrecked the pecking order, it would be nice to see a change which would balance speed out better."
"support."
"yup, i'm all for it, as i've allready made some calculations. it's not as bad as people think...vaga still going 4+km/sec with cheap t2-stuff and without hg snakes etc... ceptors still doing easily over 5km/sec, and even my rapier will have no troubles reaching 3km/sec with the proposed changes"
"support."
"^^ this tbfh.still all the nano***s crying sweet sweet emo-tears is a sight for sore eyes!"
"i'm for it, but i hope no one is taking this too seriously because the against side seems to be winning"
"supported! <3"
"sweet sweet emo tears"
"i like this idea, and it's the main reason i voted jade ^^also along with this some more interesting ew could be added like scanner spoofing.i also like the idea of pos mods that functions like a radar and detects signatures in a certain radius or in the entire solar system, which could be configured to report any hostile or neutral signatures being detected."
"first, i agree with jade on the original proposal; not necessarily the specifics, but the general idea. the post above is on the money. i may have more to add later once i've thought it over more."
"yes remove local. csm get to work ccp starting to go looney with ******ed changes... next we have a space pony that suddenly blows up an entire system on super titan."
"youve ma'am have made the best argument for removing local, i appauld your effort and am glad i voted for you.but like you said the ship scanner will of course need improvements, user friendlness and a more active state/role/useability. like narrowing your scanner would be shown as a graphical representation on the scanner page by reducing the drawn range rings size, any hits will register accross the range of the as an arc  so you cant tell excatly where they are at the range but you know they are there at that range  hopefully this could be real time info instead of constantly hitting the scan button.another thing someone mentioned passive scanning, turning on passive makes the scanner 'sweep' and record hits if they pop, bigger the angle shorter the range but better coverage and faster speed on the sweep where a narrowband sweep will give best range but slowest scan you also cant aim this scanner.active would have 'aimable' scanners but would be very noisy in themselves. putting results on overview would make it useable too or at least make the results rippable from the main scanner window and resizable on its own. we could possibly see an apperance of ships and more gear based around this mechanic  hacking ships that could change thier and neary ships thier iff friendly instead of hostile/netural while they perform thier havok, a mini capitol could act as a mobile scanning platform, skills to improve sweep speed and scan resolution of course the idea only covers onboard scanners a deployable scanner would be all the more better than the ship's provided info.also any room for a system wide distress beacon launch? a warpable to neutral beacon visible system wide as well might be used for baits traps and other fun things"
"also if you remove maps statistics would it be possible to have a interstellar probe launch platform? pos anchorable observatory? something that would launch a probe systems away and spill that information about that system but only certain specifics like traffic, cyno activations, and large object population. of course homebase players can find this probe and destroy it.also my ears perked up to devs saying how they want to add in fw elements to 0.0 conquering. this included having gate guns that have to be manned, if local is removed would you pefer these become automated and squeal alerts if they are attacked or attacking to help ease patrols and personal required to maintain space? once again hackers could come into play allowing disabling of the guns iff scanners letting hostile fleets though untouched.also since these changes are so sweeping i purpose the replacement mechanics to be installed first and fully tested before removing the local."
"admittedly i haven't read through all of the thread's responses, but i'd still like to give my own input on the matter.i'm all for removing local. i think it would be great and have many tactical advantages. scanning would become more universally used, and not so much just by those persons that wanted to track down that person in local that seems to be evading them.i would think that it might also promote more opportunity in 0.0 security areas for those corporations and alliances without space of their own. it would become harder to detect enemy presence in some backwater outpost that might be \"claimed\" but not necessarily defended unless people pop onto local. maybe we'd see some of the larger organizations scramble to put forth effective intelligence and eventually give up on such huge land claims, deciding it wasn't worth the upkeep? perhaps they'd resort to taking smaller areas, where they could possess effective intel and quick response times.i'm just thinking of the possibilities here, of course. i've not been playing long enough to judge the full impact it may have, but i'd be more than happy to see it implemented nonetheless."
"lag. the plan and tactic in the story is mute if noone can control there ship. sarcasm off."
"if you want to remove local, you need a whole host of things changed. aside from the map giving away your position if you're a ratter, the truesec status of a system also gives you away. if i were a gankfleet, all i would have to do is go to a -1.0 truesec system and i would be guaranteed to have people out and about ratting. don't need anything for that. but most of the things you already touched upon.if i had to describe an ideal system where there was no local, it would be like this:1. asteroid belts not visible on scanner, but need to be probed out. or basically, remove all asteroid belts, and increase the number of exploration plexes by a factor of anywhere between 3 and 10.2. longrange permanent scanners. and with variation between shiptypes. a frigate could have the 15 au scanner, but a battleship should have a 75 au scanner and a carrier should have a 150 au scanner.3. ability to set passive warnings so you know when people are warping in.4. iff transponder tech. i.e. i need to be able to see if that guy warping in is a friendly. 5. ability to see whether ships are in use or powered down and remove those from the scanner. i.e. parked ships at a pos need to be filtered out if so desired.6. ability to detect the presence of cloaked ships. not pinpoint em, but general presence in the area. you can make it a bit chance-based, and/or require a specific module, but the ability to at least detect is very important.thats the most important things i can think of at this point."
"first off: intelligence needs to be more proactive, and it's own game mechanic. so i completely agree with the removal of the instant intel with local and the statistics info from map.secondly: this change is a boon to pirates and carebears. it helps pirates, by allowing them to actually set traps at locations other than gates. they can camp roid belts with a scout, and drag the other ships from roaming safespots. and carebears benefit by having a modest level of protection by not being immediately identified when a pirate enters system.third: new tools should be added that gives an alliance the means to get system intelligence  anchored scanning dishes , and gives players the ability to make intelligence gathering their key function  recon probes, etc .fourth and final: now, make this information available to fleet commanders  through scout assignments  and alliance leaders  through tactical maps . make it so that having these assets in place and using gathering intelligence actively is a important as having a tackler in your group.- a player or corporation shouldn't be able to see what's happening in another 0.0 system all the way across the map. if you don't have assets there or the rights to check those assets  a radar dish sitting in one of your covert pos's , the place is unknown to you.- players of all pursuasions should be able to avoid conflict simply by watching a chat channel. i've used both myself. i know how easy and i-win it is. if i'm in a carebear setup, some identified comes in local, my cloak goes up and i can wait them out. if i am in a corp war or tactical situation, and a blob of enemy enter system, i'll go to station and either log or go afk. it's too simple.- players need to be proactive about using scanners and protecting themselves. smart fleets already have scouts ranging ahead and behind. this will make it crucial for survival, and make you post scouts to your sides as well.i'm 100% for this, and have been for two+ years now. please take the i-win button away, and make it mysterious again."
"remove local, every two-bit lowsec pirates gankers wet dream. you go!! this idea while popular with the small group posting here, would not set well with the masses."
"love the idea, and there really does need to be some way of seeing cloaked people if this goes into effect or cloaked guys/recons/whatever will become overpowered. its been said in the thread before, i know, but just my thought."
"wow kinky! my thread is back from the dead. i support!"
"actually the comparison to naval and submarine combat is pretty spot on as to what similar mechanics i'd like to see : i got stuck a few hours in a game called 'silent hunter 4' after watching the movie das boot, and i got to say submarine combat is awesome, though the game has a fast-forward function that lets you roam the pacific in 8000 times faster than normal, because otherwise traveling would take weeks.i also just learned to use the hydrophone, it's so exciting listening and hearing the enemy destroyers engines, and at which bearing they are located.and it's really scary when you're in the command room in silent running mode and you suddenly hear the sound of the enemy ships active sonar and shortly after depth charges explode all around you shaking the boat like crazy..but my point is, the most awesome thing about it is the hunt, you don't know what is out there and you have to use all sensors and means necessary to find out, some methods make yourself valunerable by for example, surfacing the boat to use the radar.i'd really love for the scanner to be more powerful and dynamic, and not favor either the hunter or the hunted.like in reallife you could have passive and active modes, active could have longer range but those using passive would get a warning that someone is using it and thus they would be able to warp out.also detecting someone warping would be awesome.."
"this could make the system scanner pos mod useful"
"not supported.i'm no 0.0 plebe, to be sure. 0.0 politics drive me utterly insane.but i don't believe ants like jade should be able to run in and trash the hard work people have put into establishing a 0.0 presence as easily as they currently can.speed changes won't change the raiders at all except make their nano gangs catchable  more or less .i say boost 0.0 presence; allow the anchoring of sentry guns at gates or other defense modules. after all, there's a whole fleet of covert ships that can bypass them. blobs should find themselves under heavy fire when they jump into enemy space through gates."
"first for support!"
"for attackers:1. corporation can declare war only if they have a command center, and there may be only one command center at time. also, there is a 10 millions pay fee to concord for every war declared if the war declaration come from a corporation, or 300 millions / war declaration if it come from an alliance to a corporation, or the standard 10 millions if alliance vs alliance.2. commander center patent cost 700 millions to concord.3. command center give some bonuses when fighting in same system.4. relocating command center to another pos cost 200 millions and take 72 hours.5. after lose a command center, corporation cannot declare war for 1 month.6. after lose a command center, leaving the corporatin which have lost it require the paying of 50 millions isk to concord for 1 month.7. after lose a command center, the war end, except if the defender corporation have a command center and want to continue the war.8. the command center is a pos in the end, but with some rules: if in high secure system, it have to be a small pos and can have only 2 turret/missiles bay.9. alliances can have up to 5 command center, but all of them have to be in 0.0, and patents cost 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 billions respectively  reminder: 0.0 war do not require a war declaration .for defenders:1. members of war declared corporation have to pay 60 millions for leaving the corporation during the first month of war.2. if the war declared corporation have a command center, losing the command center make it suffer all the penalty stated above.for all:1. war have no duration and no limitation.2. mutual wars do not require any sort of command center but can be retracted anytime by both sides.3. after a war declaration, hostilities start after 10 hours.4. when you join or create a corporation, all these rules are clearly stated and you have to accept them.problems solved:1. even noobs can strike backs, by their means or by paying mercenaries.2. war will be declared only for real needs, not for just fun, because the risk is high also for the attacker.3. guerrilla warfare is limited.4. alt hiding is limited. griefers that find themself under massive mercenary attack cannot log out because they have to defend the command center if the defender corp discover the location of it.5. pirates can still pirating, but in low sec or 0.0.6. mercenaries can truly defend the industrial corps without be forced to stay online 24/7 waiting for an attack that may even not come."
"it's not fantasy. fantasy is \"we're the magical whales from magic century in the magic kingdom. we've magically become magically imbued by the magie.\"this isn't magic. it's genetic manipulation and nano-implantation. so far, ccp has given us laser beams that can transport minerals  not saying it's...seriously, they could have come up with something better  and missiles that can't hit ships that run right the hell into them.i think we can add space whales created by advanced pre-dark-age technology."
"yes to space whales"
"whaaaaaaaaaaales in spaaaaaaaaaaaaace"
"i note that while there is appears to be alot of support for this idea... do you all want to really go back to the ways of things before jammers and sov, and mega alliances walking all over thing's like before?? well i personaly dont this is a hugely bad idea period as it stands now alliance claiming space have to put efforts into it take away the ability of jammers to permi jam a system, and everything goes belly up. agressive expansionist policys are now held in check and we have all seen a increase of constellation sized alliances in 0.0 which was the intent i believe as its hard to hold vast areas of space and should remain so, anything that shorcuts to a jammer will have a negitive general effect on alliance lvl play in 0.0. seerindarkness /ceo lfa"
"supported"
"analysis time.lowsec exploration vs hisec missionrunningrisk: hisec missionrunners will usually lose one or two ships total as they learn. other than that, they wont. the only time suicide ganking is an issue is if you insist on having a faction/deadspace fit cnr and run it in or near mission hubs. lowsec explorers have to travel through lowsec. not a huge risk in a covops cloak, but getting a huge ship  needed to do the plexes  around safely is no easy task, not to mention the risk of being probed down mid-complex. profit: exploration is very random, but given all the time spent probing, moving **** around, and running plexes which may turn out to be ****, you're not going to be getting too much. missionrunners can get upwards of 20-30m/hour, dwarfing what lowsec explorers can get. benefits: in addition to isk, missionrunners get access to lps  gives them a lot of **** to choose from  and standing  lets them get jcs and other goodies . explorers get..well, nothing.skill synergy: missionrunnners focus on the same skills that any combat pilot uses. any skills used for missionrunning will usually be used for direct combat. explorers need the same combat skills  to run the plexes , but they also have to learn probing skills...some of these skills are useful for probing out players, although that's of limited usefulness compared to the ability to actually fight.so there you have it. hisec missionrunning is riskier, more rewarding, has more side benefits, and is more enticing skill-wise than lowsec exploration. i did lowsec exploration. seems like an imbalance to me. i did that analysis because lowsec exploration is what i'm most familiar with. however, you'll find basically the same thing no matter what profession chosen. only 0.0 mining/ratting can outstrip hisec missionrunners. while doing it in quiet systems may not have too much risk in and of itself, the 0.0ers have to defend their space, something hisec missionrunners do not do.hisec missionrunning is imbalanced, period."
"erm, how can you compare exploration with mission running, the better analogy would be ratting.exploration is off on its own, doing its own thing.edit, exploration is its own mini-profession, you chose to skill into it, if its not profitable for you, skill into something else? cov ops pilots are going to be a lot more valuable soon with the proposed changes."
"...why?i just analyzed the pros and cons of one profession  exploration  vs another profession  missionrunning . one profession is superior in basically every way.it's not a miniprofession. salvaging is a miniprofession. exploration is a profession just like missionrunning."
"how can you compare one disimilar thing with another? if you want to do that why not compare trade then, thats the fastest way to make big isk in the whole of eve, if you are good at it"
"i can do that.trade has a huge risk  you can lose money if you're not careful , requires careful, intelligent micromanagement, and doesn't become more profitable than missionrunning unless you are really good at it and have a large amount of capital. trade, exploration, ratting, etc...all fit in with the spirit of eve because there's risk and competition."
"ever read the story of the noob who in 6 months made two billion profit from trade?check the story of devilish ledoux.and i also know people who've made billions in low to no sec exploration. it depends how good at it you are and also how lucky. one pilot i know made three stikes in three consecutive weeks, got about 4 billion from them, back in the early days of exploration."
"how is that relevant? trade is risky, very few people are going to make wtfomg amounts of isk from trade.firstly, that was the early days of exploration and involved a ****ton of extreme luck. that's not now, and that's not common.secondly, that's 0.0. 0.0 involves even more risk, not so much while exploring, but in the fact that you have to defend the space."
"if you want a perfect example of a \"worthless\" profession, try your hand at highsec exploration.i'm all for beefing up exploration some"
"how do you warp core stab a freighter?"
"you're assuming the newbie has to be competitive. he doesn't, and he shouldn't be. newbies are not competitive in pvp, they are not competitive in missions, they are not competitive in trading. what they are is profitable. not as profitable as a vet, but enough to get them assets, let them advance, and keep a sense of progress about everything. a new player, with maybe pe 4 and an unresearched bpo or maybe a researched bpc , should be able to make money and develop, without being able to make as much money as a veteran industrialist. given current margins on production of non-dropped gear, that's entirely possible."
"take out the t1 loot and then the miners will increase to fill the demand for more minerals.prices will rise for a bit, till the supply meets the demand then it will balance out again."
"i support this!not only will it make mining more profitable  the only aspect in eve that hasnt gotten any love... ever  but it will make production something noobs can actually do and turn a profit.im a little worried about the lower meta mods though."
"why he should sell at less of the isk he will get selling the minerals with a bit of smart?he will use 10% more minerals, then another 4% more for lacking pe5, the refine tax and refine wastage. so all inclusive he will lose something like 10% minerals refining, then use 14% more minerals than needed. at the same time a trained industrial will build 1.000 units at a time, reducing his wastage to the minimum level. so he can undercut the newbie without problems.if the minerals to build the item at perfect efficiency cost 100, the skilled producer can sell at 110 and get a passable return, the newbie selling at 110 will lose from what he will get selling the raw minerals. so he is not getting his profit from producing but from mining."
"i really like this idea."
"personally, i'd like to see t1 drops reduced but not eliminated, and loot to include some amount of minerals and salavage type 'broken junk' items that manufacturers can convert into useful ****."
"i beleive the ideal would be that all items in a game be player made. that may well be impossible, but progress towards that goal can be made.i find myself ahead by running missions, instead of mining. i get items to reprocess, isk, loyalty points and increased standings. mining i only get ore. all things considered, one day of mission running is far more profitable than one day of mining. the difference between the amount of trit, for example, i reprocess compared to what i mine can easily be addressed by purchasing trit on the market from the proceeds of mission rewards and bounties. there is also the benefit of gaining high value minerals in high sec space that are not available in high sec belts.add lp? only if a lot more stuff is available and at a good discount.   maybe give faction lp that can be used at any npc corp lp store in that faction. more money? not for me thanks.different drops? i realy like some of the proposals for alt drops. bpc's, more and/or different salvage, items that can be added in manufacturing, all very good ideas."
"good"
"when i see stuff being sold below mineral cost, i tend to buy it all up and reprocess it. whether its t1 loot or battleships."
"you forgot another factor. a lot of idiots out there think that since they mined the ore, the minerals were \"free\" and thus don't take their true value in to consideration when costs are calculated. thus they end up selling for at or near \"true cost\" of the item."
"lavista strikes again! supported but i would like to see meta 1+ to stay in drops to keep the loot a bit of fun, basic meta-0 stuff can go though!"
"have you ever looked at the markup in manufacturing non-dropped items from scratch? i can make money in the rig market, and i have no researched bpos and no pe. i can't make money in the ship market, but a newbie industrialist could pretty easily. yes, the experienced industrialist could undercut, but experience shows that they don't."
"get rid of equipment drops of all types, except maybe ammo.make everything scrap or salvage.salvage components should be used to make the fancier named equipment, but there should also be a way of making components from scratch as an industrialist.scrap metal drops should stay the same volume, but be more varied types as well as closer to ore or standard loot drops in mineral density. a ship wreckage should give up like 1-30% of the orginal mineral value.player wrecks should have a hang time of a secure can  30 days  and npc wrecks should have a hang time pretty much as they are now.simple and elegant.fleet action graveyards become magnets to scavengers, pirates, and the former owners.salvagers actually will salvage now, not just pull piles of magically small components from wrecks.industrialists have something to do before they go out and get a pos.the pirates have fresh targets as scavenge operations move into clean up the wrecks.the server gets to dump hundreds of millions of 1mn afterburners, small armor repairers, small electron blasters, and 50mm steel plates from its pile."
"not supported"
"aye!"
"ccp, you mentioned you were going to do something like this when you inflated the sizes of t1 modules to counter mineral compression. you guys are slacking off."
"as shown by zulupark and nozh's dev blogs last fall, the developers feel that 0.0 warfare is becoming too capital centric, and measures should be taken to bring eve combat back to the way it was before revelations 1. many players did not receive the blogs well, yet ccp firmly retains its stance on the issue. what i would like is an opportunity for the csm delegates, as representatives of the eve playerbase, to reconcile their differences on the topic with the developers. it'd be an opportunity to report players' feelings one way or the other on the topic, point out things that are wrong and other ideas that hit the nail on the head, and see what future plans they have in mind for carriers and motherships. it's a chance for people to express their concerns about the issues with 0.0 combat and what they would like carriers to be used for, and if they have to be changed at all.denying this would be a tremendous waste of the opportunity available through the csm."
"qft! this is a really ****ing awesome idea. now i sorta want to go get a lotro trial lol.the only thing i have a prob with is the sounds in jita 4-4 :oand i hope this doesnt mean we have to get a dance emote :\"
"if you don't like their music, just pod them when they leave station. or beat them up in-station."
"looks terrible in battleship fleet manueveurs.get rid plz."
"."
"yes please"
"drake passive shield tank is way too powerfull 750dps tanked forever and 400 dps given. if only it got incresed dps and give 1 more medium slot and some cpu, i would call it best bs in game. doomsday proof, recharges so fast.sollution is to narf passive recharging of shield. remove 2 low slots add power grid and +1 med slot in order to effectivly fit shield booster, cap booster and heavy assault missiles."
"best way would be to remove passive recharge all the way if u ask me."
"ccp tried something but ended nerfing bc shield recharge time only slightly. just hit it with the nerf sledgehammer like you love so much ccp."
"okay drake, has a great shield tank, if you use all the mids and most of the lows for it, and then really only if its got rigs too.this means its not going to run around with web and scram or web and disruptor without nerfing its tank, something that doesnt happen to armour tankers.this also means means the aggressor to the drake gets to dictate range and when to de-agress, drake isnt known for its handling or speediness is it.being a shield tank its got a great big hole in its resists right from the start.pc's do a lot more damage than npc's and it only gets to use cruiser size weaponry.no supportedit: oh and the drake is a battlecruiser not a battleship."
"it's gotta use all its slots to do that. yes, it is annoyingly hard to kill, but it can't do jack to the aggressor so it doesn't matter."
"hint to the op:ferox, myrmi and hurricane can all mount passive tanks almost as strong as the drake. and by almost as strong its within a couple of %.guess what? they can't kill anything either when setup that way......"
"what's a drake going to do with a super-passive tank setup? nothing but blow spitwads at you.its the perfect bait-tank. in fact, it isnt a good bait-tank to begin with because everyone knows the drake is going to be a tough nut to bust open to get to the pod, so why bother with it?"
"the drake is fine"
"drake tank usually uses all midslots, lowslots, and rigslots.i imagine if you did the same thing with other bc you'd have similar results. like the prophecy."
"it's balanced cos the drake can't do ****"
"the overwhelming attitude among 0.0 players has been that titans' logistic abilities should be expanded and their combat capabilities deemphasized. players and developers alike have expressed discontent with how the doomsday device changes combat - i.e. \"it needs a buff in the 'fun' department\" - and it's high time we did something about it as titans continue to proliferate. what i propose is simple: let's try to follow through with the often suggested development of more abilities and features for titans that help groups model their organizations around them, and in trade, abolish one of the worst mistakes ccp ever made, the doomsday device.i anticipate that this may not sit well with some people, but if you look through the dev blog archive, this is more like what ccp originally had in mind for them. during the period before red moon rising's release and for many months  if not years  afterward, ccp's development team was dreadfully understaffed and overworked. this accounts for why they were unable to make it fit in with their original design, and why for almost a full year afterward titans were horribly bugged and in many cases, non-functional. however, after the +400% hp buff in revelations 1, a very significant portion of the playerbase agree that titans have become a bit too much.naturally, there are without a doubt a number of technical limitations behind turning them into stations. a market service in the titan is likely completely unfeasible, as would the ability to dock or log off inside of them. however, a mobile factory or refinery could be possible, and it is important for us to try to come up with other, more sophisticated and unique features we could give them, without simply turning them into an extremely expensive pos with the same functions.so if you feel that the potential of this idea is worth bringing up in the august meeting, or have ideas of your own on this topic, please reply to this thread and give a generous thumbs up. thank you."
"in my opinion the titan shouldn't be a \"hit and run\" vessel but instead a frontline ship which needs to be on the battlefield to do anything. most probably achieved by making the dd targeted and doubling the damage output and reducing the isotope requirement and reducing refire time to say 30 seconds? also probably the tanking ability of titans would need to be upped so that they have more survivability in the battlefield."
"agreed- gob"
"first off: dev blog concerning speed nerf.second off: nanoes should be nerfed to some extent, but this is going way overboard.what i am calling for here, is a veto of the nerf as it stands now, not a veto of any speed nerf, just this speed nerf.here is a short list of what will change:webs changed to 50-60% effectivnessshort range scramblers deactivate mwdsreactivation time delays on mwds  similiar to cloaks polycarbons nerfed to be worse than nanofibersx-instinct boosters will reduce sig radius not increase speedoverdrive effectiveness pretty much halvedsnakes nerfedgangbonuses to speed reduced, but increase to agility addedsome of these i personally agree with, but the larger changes, especially to microwarpdrives, webs and overdrives are horrible and will severly nerf more than a entire play style. i would rather have ccp nerf speed from the top down. start with snakes and polycarbons, a lot of nano fits gets nerfed at that point already. reduce the effectiveness of overdrives, nanofibers and i-stabs trough stack nerfing, and even more nano fits gets less viable, but not completely useless. at this point, there should be few to none uncatchable nano ships, interceptors and minmatar ships should still be alive, but a lot of the 3000km/s ishtars and zealots would be more or less vanished.the changes to webs are also too extreme in my opinion.i think that webs should have a effectiveness depending on the targets sig radius. this would mean afterburners would be usable for burning out of web range, while microwarpdrives wouldn't, at the same time, smaller ships would have a easier time in web range because of their smaller sig radius.i think that ccp believes that after a option has been enabled, things will go back to the way they were after it has been disabled, this isn't true, and never will be. ccp enabled nano fits, ccp has to accomodate and tolarate nano fits to some degree, that is my opinion.for the record, i don't fly nano ships, i got a neut geddon, gank brutix and gank thorax in my hangar. i got a alt that has flown and will fly nano stabbers tough."
"giving this a swift kick in the ass back to the top of the page with support.simply put, csm is here to be our representatives to the devs. this is your time to shine - what we have here is one of the most severe nerfs in game history, one that will not only severely damage nanoships but forever change the way combat works in eve. while speed should be reduced a bit, especially on the very high end where pimped ships reach extreme speeds, ccp's reaction to it is over the top and a knee-jerk nerf.they spent 5 hours on it. and the results of that meeting will not only nerf nanowarfare back to the point where only vagabonds and interceptors can be viable, but in the process destroy the ability of blasterships to fight by denying them the capability to close in on their target.csm, we need your assistance on this one. talk with the devs, give them reasoned arguments on why this is a bad idea before this is too late - at the very least, get rid of that 7.5km scram boost, and save the gallente ships."
"at the very least toss out the warp scram mwd deactivator."
"if anyone actually read the dev blog they are setting it up on sisi this monday for at least a month. before 'veto'ing it why dont you guys at least try it then moan about changes?"
"the csm is not here to veto anything. they do not have power over how the game progresses. they simply make agruments from each persepective about how the players see things. ccp makes any final decisions as to changes/no changes. its their game. they will do what they feel they need to do with their game. not you or any council of the players."
"i will be adding the topic to the agenda in the next csm meeting and we'll be discussing it there. speaking personally i strongly believe it is unwise to implement the game changes suggested in the dev blog prior to resolving the current serious issues with blob-warfare and overwhelming defense advantage in 0.0. at the very least we need the covert cyno bypassing jammers and changes to jump bridge functionality on the table before we should be considering any game change to further weaken the small unit/roving gang playstyle in eve."
"5 hours is all you're giving thought to a style of pvp that is so intricate to how fun pvp is, and at the same time, if done even slightly wrong, will forever change the basics of pvp that people have had down for years?i expect more from a company that prides itself with the most hardcore pvp experience in an mmo. please dont do what soe did with swg."
"i'm not your biggest fan, and i dont make a secret of it, your a weighty wordsmith, one of the people i dispise most, but your comment here will show us if the csm is a white elephant or something ccp take seriously, personally i'm going for the elephant.btw when i say i dispise you, i dont mean personally, i just f**king h8 people that think using twenty words is good when one is enough, which to be fair is your forte."
"how do you know this? i'm pretty sure that ccp as spent a lot more time thinking about something that has such impact, plus it will be on sisi on monday: they would really have to bust their asses getting that ready if they only spent 5 hours before the blog was released. and did anyone actually read the blog, then think about it? from what i can see, speed tanking is still very viable! i mean, look at the graph. your hacs will still be able to get to 2500-3000 ish with a reasonable all nano/overdrive/i-stab setup.blasterboats will be fine. you just actually have to consider your fittings. most folks who argue this are just stuck in the \"must have mwd\" paradigm. after this many targets may not be fitting a mwd, and your not the only target they might face: your targets would have to fit specially to really render your ship useless. i'm not going to put down all the combos of mwd, ab, web, scram, etc. that would just be tedious, and your pretty dumb if you think only one setup will be an i-win in eve. actually, i think if the exact stats are worked out  and they may not be  this could actually be a boon to blasterships.while i have a few reservations about if the exact stats are needing some tweaking, i'm excited to see the changes in action. this nerf does more than nerf speed, its also a boost to some ships and gives pvp roles to ab and scrams who have needed some for along time. so, my opinion is just see what its like on sisi before you complain. you may actually like some of the changes. keep an open mind. if you go on sisi and genuinely  by that i mean try the changes from all roles: blasterboat, sniper, nanoship, anti-nanoship, etc  and you still don't like it then i could accept your complaining as legitimate, and i'm guessing so will ccp. as is you simply don't have any credibility."
"two thumbs down."
"though it does not surprise me in the least that jade would be one of the ignorant pubbies that drops a drama bomb based on theorycraft and speculation.and like that other guy said, this is not a csm issue. you are not the ****ing swg senate.keep this pre-nerf whining bull**** out of the assembly hall."
"i think the issue is more that broad sweeping changes are counter productive compared to smaller subtle ones, aside from the fact the coding has already been done if monday is the day its dumped on sisi, which we all know is such a good indicator of tranq performance."
"oh so this is what should concern the csm, the methods used by ccp to develop eve.you tell 'em, csm."
"i guess i could always email helmar with my concerns."
"*scream* *wah* *cry*come on, people. for the better part of the last 18 months the speeders with buckets of isk have laughed and pointed saying, adapt or die, adapt or die.now it's you who will have to adapt and what do we see?? wah, don't change our nanophaggotry.get a life, adapt or die.when you die, escrow me your stuff, mmmmmkay?"
"supported a bit. small to moderate nerf to nano ships that were not meant to be nanoed and speed tanked ships that are not meant to be speed tanked is in order.web and scramb and mwd changes are too extreme and all together will completely break all gun range/tracking/dps balance.but i cannot fully agree with jade. running a hac at frig or dictor speeds cannot be one and only counter to blob warfare and only option for small gang play. its too broken."
"because they said so in the blog. four guys spent five hours and from the look of what they came up with and the little consideration for the far reaching consequences of their proposal, it shows.the consequences to transports and cov-op ships agility are just some of the downsides that will be affected. nerf top end speed? while that may be needed, it cannot come at the price of so much. you're talking about changes that will affect every ship in the game.windjammer"
"i don't think anybody has said that it should be the only counter to blob warfare. what we actually need is a proper rebalance of 0.0 warfare designed specifically to punish and provide strong disincentives to mindless blobbing. we need the hideous situation with cyno jammer spam dealt with, we need jump bridges weakened so that 0.0 logisitics needs to go by gates again, we need black ops fixed and covert cynos working correctly and we need distributed parallel objectives in sovereignty warfare introduced to give meaning and purpose to smaller gang pvp again. what we don't need is a sweeping nerf to guerrilla warfare that further empowers mindless blobbing - this is against the best interests of the game at this time."
"what if they come out with the changes to allaince warfare? you know the stargate timer based system?becuaseships going 20,000 m/s would make that not very fun. just orbit a gate."
"when did game design become a democratic operation?i mean, can you really use words like 'veto' accurately? there's a lot of misinformed players out there. i'm one. i'm not coding this game. so why should i have any more say in what changes are made, beside a constructive suggestion now and then that i neither expect nor require to be headed, or the money from my wallet?"
"obviously, whoever posts a devblog is solely responsible for its content! fail."
"and i think he did mention that \"they\" as in a room full of geeks has been working and arguing about this."
"funny, i tink he's fixing an obvious imbalance in the game. perhaps you should take of those rose-tinned goggles, you appear to be suffering tunnel vision.also, the csm raised the nano problems already, ccp said it was being looked into, dev blog is likely the result, please check the thread in this forum from wrangler."
"lal mi vagabund iz usles nao :::                           "
"i read that as \"i'm hot and bothered\" at first."
"fail.we called for a fundamental fix to the problem, not a across the board nerf to make everyone's ship slower and more useless.somehow, that seems to translate into massive nerfs, cause carpet bombing is such a great tactic when you're trying to kill one man.i recall, from another game, the cruel case of the mercy suicide bomb unit. the unit, which flew  the game, supreme commander, was an rts  was fast, nimble, and enough of them could be extremely deadly. the problem was, while the unit was broken, it was only broken because of several underlying problems within the game; one key aspect was, in all ranked and competitive online matches, the game could be won by taking out the other player's commander, and another key aspect was the fact that you could micromanage the movements of your units. players would uses all these facts to fly several mercies around whatever anti-air systems the defending player had thrown up, and take out the commander, with ease. naturally, the community was very upset, to say the least, they whined and they moaned, and they cried, and eventually, the game developers introduced a patch to fix it. now, you have to realize, the community had suggested various changes, such as introducing a new unit to counter the mercy, fix the tracking and the way aa picked it's targets, or simply increase the build cost of the unit and decrease it's damage.but what was the developer's solution? add a new unit? reduce it's damage? no. their solution was to nerf /all/ aspects of the unit; increase it's build cost, it's build time, it's turn radius, while decreasing it's speed, it's damage, it's nimbliness. in other words, everything that made the unit useful, they nerfed, nerf to the point were it became a useless unit. i fear that ccp is taking a similar philosophical point of view with nano ships. the problem is, however, is that 'nano' ships are not 'real', but rather, a collection of modules, which are used by all ships, and some ships that capable of fitting. the problem is, all ships can fit mwds, all ships can fit nanofibers, all ships can fit overdrives, etc.nerfing these modules is a global nerf to any ship that does not abuse these modules.this is what this whole issue boils down too; ccp wants their sandbox, but doesn't seem to understand that a few bad eggs abusing the systems shouldn't unfairly hurt us as well. nanos reveal a fundamental problem with the way the game handles certain weapon systems, like missiles and drones, because they can be used without any drawbacks. people are upset. ccp wants to do something. i understand all that, but carpet bombing the problem isn't going to solve anything.if you seriously don't see the problem with a massive across the board nerf like ccp is proposing you really shouldn't have been elected, because you clearly don't understand the magnitude such a change would do to the game, not just nanoer and speed tankers.and for the accord, no, i don't abuse nanos. the only time i've used nanos was on my interceptor, where they belong."
"we actually didn't raise it formally. some csm members had some talks on the subject informally but we haven't yet passed an issue addressing speed/nanos etc. this latest blog is the result of work in the pipeline for a while that doubtless began before we took office."
"for what its worth i can see this causing many many problems with game balance in 0.0 warfare particularly in raiding/small unit combat which will become even more difficult to pull off with defense bonuses increased for blobbing.but the nano-nerf brigade did build up a head of steam and the developers will now try to address that and we've got to adapt and attempt to make the best of it. i do certainly take your point re supreme commander and yes i agree. but this is probably a case of letting the eve community see the consequences of game balance filter into the playing environment for a while. i'm hopeful it will serve to highlight the horrible situation in 0.0 sovereignty warfare and might help us get that addressed."
"the problem with supreme commander, and now eve, is that a very small segment of the player base regularly posts, which forms the majority of the these 'nerf' brigade, which is part of the problem; if out a true representation of the views of the game, a proper course of action cannot be determined. in supreme commander, it led to the complete re balancing of all static defenses and economic structures, which, imo, caused the player base to leave because the game had turned into a rehash of the zerg rush.just a word of caution, making 'informed' changes because of the opinion of such a small, angry group of players could be disasterious, and irreversible."
"this nerf is fail. i am of the opinion that nanos do not need nerfed, and that it is simply a vocal minority that is whining, not that everyone wants speed nerfed.however, regardless of these differences in opinion, i think we can agree that this is not the proper way to go about nerfing nanos"
"and not fixing a fundamental problem just because of a small, angry group of players  nano***s  could hurt the playerbase. i dont see a solution forthcoming from you.i do agree with you though, it would be much nicer if more of the eve population older then 10 months came to the forums, and not just caod. i also agree that these changes might be a step to far  my poor blasterboats , which is why i am thankful that ccp is running the changes on the test server first, and will take player input first.im not exactly sure what you expect from ccp since they have done everything they can imo, now its our turn to playtest and ***** and moan some more."
"any hopes of csm agreeing on nicely asking ccp to first only try a moderate approach by changing polycarbon and od stacking penalties and rebalancing base speeds? with maybe a small tweak to snakes, much smaller than proposed?and seeing the effects of such moderate nerf, and then considering further gameplay changes?"
"woah, such attitude. and from one who seeks to represent the masses of eve? you should drop out of the election now."
"turret users should be treated same as missile users. if someone wants to train cruise misiles he trains crusie misiles and nothing else.lets see someone had large hybrid and want large laser? die loser training slow all turets from small to large. dont talk about secondery skills becouse guns get same amount of secondery skills like missiles. turets should be easier to train or misiles tree updated to reflet training as in turets. so torpedos would need heavy assaults t2, crusie misiles t2 would need heavy missiles t2. heavy assault/heavy misiles would need rockets t2."
"signed"
"supported. missile skills are a joke. for a time i considered training for freaking raven for missions  no gameplay there anyway, just grinding for cash, so why not do it in efficient way , thankfully i saw the wrongness of training for raven and gave up.but i saw that i could t2 fit a raven  tank and gank  in less time than i would need just for t2 medium hybrids. for christs sake ccp, why do caldari really have to be able to do everything the easy way?dont simplify gun training. getting full t2 weapons in month or two is stupid. rework t2 bs missile weapon skills so they need all lesser skills. and hear the wines of all caldari sheep."
"edit - disregard. i goofed, but i still support the idea"
"turrets are easier to train, you moron. did you even look at the lengths of the missile and gunnery skill trees?"
"moron compare skill requirements of t2 siege launcher with for example large hybrid turret t2"
"that's an idiotic comparison. you're comparing the training time to use a single weapon system  t2 torps  vs. the training time to use three  t2 small, medium and large turret here are the sums of the skill ranks of the skill trees, split into weapons and support skills:missile weapon skills: 50missile support skills: 26  24 if you exclude defenders turret weapon skills: 41gunnery support skills: 18qed."
"yeah and why i cannot just train large blasters without learning small, medium and support skills, as you can do with torpedos?"
"because that's the price you pay for having a shorter skill tree. in any case, the ability to go straight to, say, t2 torps really isn't that much of an advantage, especially in pvp. any serious missile user trains the other skills anyway, normally first - because you can't use torps on smaller ships."
"you have no clue i see what we talking about here."
"oh, i think i do. you didn't have a clue about the realities of the skill trees. you're not content with turrets being easier to train for, or the gunnery support skills applying to all turret skill trees. neither are you interested in game balance. you just want to whine until things are made easier for you. well, carry on."
"i support this change... kinda half-heartedly.i fly minmatar and i have to train both missiles and turrets to be effective... with missiles the way they are now it cuts down on my training time a lot, although i still think it's b0rked edit: btw, to the guy arguing that it's shorter for guns.... just the base skills to get t2 large arty and t2 ammo takes 78 days. to train into bs sized missiles  torps  with no prior skills and using t2 ammo... it will take you 30 days.edit 2: i'm a tard, i forget guns make you train the support skills while missiles don't... it's odd."
"as explained previously, it's a silly comparison. you should be comparing the training times to get t2 large arty with the training time for t2 cruise, t2 hams, t2 heavies, t2 rockets and t2 standards... then add the requisite support skills on top as well."
"except that there are a lot of us that would never fire rockets. so why add them?"
"why i want to suport this change. nearly 3x time slowertraining in misiles. caldari fanboys just will whine that it is bad..."
"so basicly what you're saying is you want to be able to train all your gunnery skills in the same time it'd take to train all missle skills? lets brake it down here shall we?missles:launcher opperationrocketlight misslesassault misslesheavy misslesheavy assult misslescruise misslestorpsgunnery:smallmediumlargeseems to me like there's more missle skills to have to train than gunnery... what you're asking is to be able to train 2 race's worth the guns in the time it takes to train 1 race's missle skills  counting out minmatar from this since they use both , sounds quite logical to me. so what you have to train up specialization of smalls to get mediums, and mediums to get larges, suck it up, you have 3 gun types missles have 6 not even couting the \"inbetween\" ones like assault and heavy assault. lets look at skill ranks for a secsmall projectile: rank 1small spec: rank 3medium projectile: rank 3medium spec: rank 5large projectile: rank 5large spec: rank 8missles: launcher op: rank 1rockets: rank 1rocket spec: rank 3standard missles: rank 2standard missle spec: rank 3heavy missles: rank 3heavy missle spec: rank 5heavy assault: rank 3heavy assault spec: rank 5cruise: rank 5cruise spec: rank 8torp: rank 5torp spec: rank 8seems balanced to me, the only difference is we dont need to train up the tree's to get the specs, so if you're only shooting for 1 type of t2 gun then yea missles get their t2 faster, however if you're looking to max out all weapons for a specfic race, guns are done alot faster the missles, not to mention the 6-7 support skills you need for missles just so they actually do any kind of damage to a non-stationary target, not to mention with gunnery if you can use t2 autocannons you can use fair damage t1 artys. however just because you can use t2 torps, dosnt mean you can even use cruise. guns get a static bonus to both long range and short range guns prior to hitting the spec skills, however missles require you to train up each skill seperatly from the others, so to summarize this all, suck it up"
"fypgunnery, surgical strike, motion prediction, controlled bursts, rapid firing, sharp shooter and trajectory analysis itt: caldari***s show their ignorance of turret weapon systems"
"i see problem with missiles vs turrets. misilles hit low orbit target and turets dont. they arent effected by tracking distruptors also.sollution would be:arming distance for missiles. in this way misiles and turets would be more in par."
"good point, with upcoming nerf torpedoes will be overpowered in comparison to turrets"
"fully supported anyway, doubly so if ludicrous speed \"tweek\" gets passed."
"needs rebalancing"
"also for a purely tracking disruptor boost they could be renamed targeting disruptors and effect turret optimal, missile flight time, turret tracking and missile explosion velocity"
"seriously, this is ridiculous! some eve developers posted a dev blog, and there are issues about the dev blog?? this isn't even on the test server yet, how can there be issues about it?!propose to have untested/untestable speculation posts in the assembly hall to be immediately locked, as there can be no issue, and they are just spam threads taking attention away from valid issues."
"i agree. this is just silly. i mean, did people even read the very first line of the dev-blog?"
"people don't need to test all the specifics of the nano nerf as outlined in the dev blog. they can read some of the amazingly bad ideas right there. it isn't even that people are specificly against reducing speed in many cases. it's about how it's being proposed to be done in the blog and what else it would affect.agility will take a fast boot to the butt and deactivating mwd's with a scrambler? what bull!!windjammer"
"agreed.there are so many other issues to look into that are active problems with the game now.faction science corps being in enemy space, for one.ui windows jumping all over the place  pinned or not , for another.jade's personal little war: 0.0 alliances actually being able to defend their turf from raiders like her  as they should be, imo , and other sov issues.speed is being examined, and will be tested. all the complaints have been heard, so stop screaming. go test them, fist.then adapt, because the changes are coming. if you can't adapt, send me your stuff and go play wow."
"is there a feedback and suggestions forum for the test server?maybe the test server speculation, and the more valid usable feedback from people who have tested it, could be posted in a special forum.posting issues about test server stuff, especially before it has even become testable, shouldn't be issues.ask yourself, what is the csm supposed to do with this?csm to ccp: \"we're proposing that the changes described in the dev blog not be implemented and tested on the test server.\"ccp: \"... uhh ... this isn't really what we had in mind for the csm.\""
"i don't know what you had in mind for the csm, but the rest of us had in mind that they would be a voice of the subscriber base to ccp. i can appreciate how you would want to censor this discussion, though.windjammer"
"agreed"
"thats just it though, it is a discussion, not an issue.the csm can't do anything with this, its just noise."
"yeah this is ridiculous. reminds me of south park. rabble rabble rabble rabble rabble"
"the problem is that the csm does indeed represent the subscriber base of eve, however when that subscriber base *****s non-stop about the nano problem  and there is a problem , then goes around and *****s about ccp's proposed fixes without even testing them, without offering anything more constructive then 'zomg u suxz' it becomes hard for ccp to listen to us at all. how the hell is the csm going to do it's job with people whining about fixes days before they are even in beta? :\ninja support edit!"
"i'm going to disagree. i think this is actually a very important issue and its about the priority of game fixes. i think its vital that we fix 0.0 warfare before we further reduce the ability of players to engage in it by reducing the chance of survival for small gang pvp in that sphere. if we'd had the chance to discuss priorities on these issues in iceland i'd have voted to put fixes to the broken 0.0 sovereignty game well ahead of nano-nerf and i think its important we now let the developers know how we feel on this matter."
"yes it is true that it is just a blog, and it is not set in stone. however as jade had mentioned and nozh had stated is that he will be listening and seeing how things go.if they are indeed listening and paying attention, this is a pretty decent place to voice the payer base concerns and or support of the issue. you think?but i am not surprised this kind of post popped up since the against crew is picking up decent support and the for squad is lagging behind. just let it run its course and see what happens."
"this serpent must be swiftly beheaded and burned before it ever picks up steam, why should we let it get onto the test server before attacking it?"
"i also dissagree and quote jade constantine on this onesome quotes the ccp should take into consideration."
"thats because when people like somthing they are in game playing, not on the forums posting.thats why befor the anouncement, the forums were filled with \"nerf nano's\" threads, and the people in those threads defending nano's were prettymuch the same few people all the time.now that the nerf has been announced the anti-nano crowd is happy and in game, while the nano crowd is riled up and on the forums.the only true way to get a tally of the populations opinion would be for it to be a vote on the login screen and track it by account.jade and i have had vocal dissagreements, and i disagree here too. nano's imo needed fixing because to me at least, they were the problem in 0.0. when an alliance sets up in a constilation, that supposed to be like their little empire. roaming gangs should have a hard time getting to an enemies core systems, thats the whole point.me personally, i left 0.0 because defence was pretty pointless, you couldnt keep the enemy out, so unless you played at off hours you generally didnt get alot done.thats just me though, i know that people that go on roams like to hit the heart of the enemy, i've been on a few of them. station camping the enemy isnt really my thing."
"its going to make it to the test server, csm has no control over that.in a situation like this, where the devs want to make big changes to a flawed system, yet aren't 100% certain about the method or values, test server must be used to collect data.that data will be much more useful than viewing the forums where people give reasons like \"too much nerf, cancel the whole idea\".no, like it or not, the flawed speed mechanic has caught the developer's eyes, and some kind of change is incoming.you can be constructive and test them and then leave valuable feedback like i will, or you can be just another forum whiner.either way, this is not a csm issue, at all."
"anything that concerns the interests of players in eve is a potential csm issue. this one more than most."
"a viable anti-missile system? for mid to large scale battles, have a couple of missile boats rack up on rocket launchers and fill them all with defenders. each rocket launcher holds 10 defenders with a rof of about 2 secs. if ya use a drake, that's 7 launchers giving one nasty missile defense grid. granted the gangs dps goes down quite a bit, but it will seriously hamper the opponents missile throw weight.as for defenders, i'd say double their speed but leave flight time alone. 2x speed and 1/2 time on everything else sounds good to me."
"i propose that all achura caldari players should get access to dev console and ability to kill any ship in game or delete anyone's character."
"please, they don't work that way at all. at least learn how they work before commenting."
"signedoverview windows/drones switching order on undock, random window movements, pop-up windows causing other windows to move, all when windows are pinned and 'lock pinned windows' selected.very annoying"
"/signed. christ it's just plane annoying..."
"this drives me utterly bananas."
"it is annoying, i know it happens now to me with wrecks and jet cans... and any new secure cans i open"
"thumbs up."
"just a friendly kick back to the front page so the csm's might actually offer some idea if this is intended and will remain or shall be fixed.i've got 6 rp agents and can't get to them because of fw standings. i'm sure the same goes for people that have joined fw for the other factions, as well."
"you should check ammar khanid r&d. it stink, no lv3 agent r&d i think..."
"well, its not research but spying. clearly you want to be in enemies territory for that."
"wait.. you didn't figure out which agents you were going to lose access to prior to faction warfare? ccp is not responsible for your brilliance."
"in it's current state, ecm rules on the battlefield. never has a ship class been granted anything this close to immunity. to make matters worse, eccm is virtually useless as a counter. example here...i was testing the other night with remote eccm projected all on to one raven. the raven wound up with over 250 strength. i turned on one ecm module on my falcon...and the raven was jammed. can someone tell me why this makes sense?here's for making a move to change eccm. equipping eccm of your ships race should completely null any eccm thrown at you. some may say this is imbalanced, because everyone would fit eccm modules. as it stands right now, every fleet consists of at least 3 falcons, so what other countermeasures do we really have?"
"i think ecm is quite balanced. falcons are specialty ships, and that means they should be good at what they do. you don't blame a rails just cause a rokh is a specialty ship, do you? secondly, your experiment is stupid because you take only one sample and ecm is all chance based. a normal  no eccm  raven has a 10% chance of being jammed my falcon using only 1 ecm. if the raven has 5 projected eccm iis on him, that drops to about 1%  that's 90% more immune to ecm . so there is still a chance i'll get him, just really small. i'm guessing thats whats going on in your experiment, you just happened to hit that 1%. these percentages would be even smaller if you used a non-ecm specialty ship to try it out on.tl;dr: ecm is fine."
"*lol*jam is chance based, and oops... you had that 1 chance and got it.falcon is not broken, nor is rook or griffin. in fact, because ecm is chanced based eccm can be surprisingly effective as a counter. just fitting 1 makes you twice as resistant."
"k.assuming you have a falcon with 2, t2 racial jammers, max skills, 2 signal distortion amps and 2 particle dispersion augmentorsvs none eccmhurricane = 98% chance of jamming every cyclesleipnir = 98%tempest = 92%dominix = 86%rapier = 81%falcon = 74 %chimera = 31%vs 1x eccm iisleipnir = 68%tempest = 60%dominix = 54%rapier = 50%falcon = 44%chimera = 17%for anything smaller than a battlecruiser, it's pretty much 80% chance of jamming with eccmwhen you factor in relocking time, and the likely hood of fotm status as every gang has 1-2 falcons in, 4-6 battleships can be out of a fight for 2/3s of the time during current engagements with eccm.and considering that this is with only 2 racials, from one falcon, you can see why i think it's particularly imbalanced.if eccm was stronger  say, you fit one, and you had 10% chance of being jammed  it would in turn make ecm more situational, it would provide much needed competition of slots in amror tankers with 4 mids and would provide the lack luster 5th utility mid slot ships with something useful to be fitted with.sure, 100% jam immunity is a little much, but eccm really needs to be looked at as it could solve a few iusses."
"also..."
"once upon a time, all pos modules  including guns and ecm  were located inside the pos forcefield. back then the absurd explosion radius of citadel torpedoes didn't really matter as they were just as useful against poses as other capital weapons.since then, ccp has moved offensive pos modules outside the pos forcefield. as it is wise, and often entirely necessary, to incapacitate some or all pos weapons/ecm/neuts before assaulting the pos itself, the explosion radius of citadel torpedoes vs module signature radius is in need of a serious re-balancing.by way of example, a citadel torpedo hits large pos modules  large guns/neuts  for roughly 40% of the damage it would cause to the pos itself. all other dread weapons hit for full damage on all large and medium sized pos modules, and often hit for most of their damage against small pos modules.this is effectively a standing nerf to caldari and minmatar dreads, and should be corrected as soon as possible."
"as a naglfar pilot, i agree with the op"
"i agree with the op."
"absolutely. it's one of the reasons i haven't even bothered training for a phoenix."
"as a capital pilot, i support."
"it just doesn't make sense, please to fix."
"i couldn't agree with the op more"
"/signed"
"it is one of the reasons i regret it. please repair this flaw in mechanics ccp."
"signed"
"this would make minmatar dreads not suck as much. please do this ccp."
"is it a bug or intentional?"
"either way, it seems unbalanced, and an easy fix. can we get a colored response in here to this?"
"x - signed"
"fully agree. either up the sigs on these modules, or lower the explo radius on the citadels."
"/signed"
"as i understand the tracking formula, a stationary target and a stationary shooter  sieged dread  means perfect tracking, regardless of the target's sig radius and weapon sig resolution. so it's silly that citadel torps get penalised."
"/signedi can see why some weapons arrays would be...less than optimally targeted by dreads  the \"bring smaller ships into pos warfare\" idea  but at the very least warp scramblers and large guns should be able to be attackable for a reasonably high % of damage on target. even medium guns should get most of the damage.needs fixing!"
"i think there should be a faction warfare channel added to the forums. this would make it much easier to find information and for pilots to talk about it."
"please relook all of their ships they will be worthless now."
"huh?minmatard ships rock! speed changes will make them rock better. so your phagabond can't run 15km/s, ooohh... but your huginn will still be just fine."
"dude all ship goes slower? sweet! minmatar boost!my ships will still go omg fast. in fact it will now be harder for other races to catch our speed! muhahahahaha"
"you guys realize the only way vagabonds stay alive is because they can speed tank the turrets and missiles and choose when to engage and gtfo when they need to. this is cutting their balls off."
"oh noes my vaga only goes 6000m/s what will i do.i fail to see how this is an issue, now it just means non-officer fit interceptors will be able to catch them."
"actually the changes to the webifer's will impact tracking dependent vessels at close range."
"the speed nurf will screw most min pilots. think about this for a moment, for pvp, how often do you see a minmatar ship armor or shield tanking in anything smaller then a bs? rarely. now with the nurf, any ship dependent on speed tanking will be screwed, and the drake will become the new king of pvp and take it's seat next to caldari recon ships, the current queen of pvp."
"hahahahhhahahahahhahaahhahahahahahahahahaahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaoh, wow thats some funny stuff right there lol."
"it seems that the balancing team these days dont have much of a clue about eve and how to play it and i say its time for us to get tomb back to eve.tomb might have been one hell of a nerfer, but at least he nerfed using a nerfbat and not tactial nukes like todays dev's does"
"doh, forgetting to give myself a thumbs up"
"who's bright idea do you think it was to buff istabs in revelations 1?"
"he was no better tbh, to busy loving the fanboi's crawling up his ****ter on sisi to be of any real use"
"i propose a simple change if once the speed change goes through.if you appose the speed change fine, but lets look ahead just in case and support this is case you like the idea not the cause.replace the bonus for mwd on the thoraxe to a 15% to afterburner velocity bonus per level. this coupled with nanos and overheating would allow for a thoraxe to go 1400 m/s on an afterburner with no change to it's sig radius.come on you know that sounds fun : and even then it wouldn't be able to catch a vaga going 400m/s with a mwd it would just be able to rush in and destroy anything going slow, it wouldn't even have to care about the web nerf as it's speed once a web was applied on top of the mwd killing warp scram, it would effectivy be able to tackle and lock down any ship in the game.coupled with a interceptor or two or other range bonus war scram ships it would be awesome."
"i'd suggest 10% increase to ab effect and cap cost per level, but something like this makes sense."
"supported, if proposed mwd/web/scram changes go trough.all blasterboats with mwd cap use reduction should have it changed to 10-15% ab speed boost  per level of course ."
"thing is, so many ppl disagree with the nano nerf as it stands because it nerfs so many non nano ships as well. to boost all the non nano ships that get nerfed is just going to create a whole load of mess.primary example: reduce large bubble size because bs's move slower after nano nerfhow many boosts, changes are going to be needed to counter ballance a vaga flyin at 7000mps"
"vaga flying at 7km is not a problem. missile and drone hacs going over the top are issue. if vaga cuts his speed or zeroes his transversal... oh with a mwd sig the size of planet...but yeah, if this were to go true ccp would spend years listening to a hundred new whines about real issues.if they go with this lunacy they should for starters give 10% tracking and 10% to optimal and falloff of acs and blasters."
"the sci-fi lore supports the noble act of self-destruct, but it does neglect the whole\"if i'm going to die, i'm taking you with me.\"no giant deadly explosion, nothing but a pop and a pod. how about an equivalent of a large or giant sized smart bomb going off after doing so?that could be your penality. a person might be reluctant to blow up his allies along with his ship."
"not supported. its called the last great act of defiance. just because you think you are \"winning\" doesn't mean you are guarenteed to get the stuff.i could support the destruction of the pod if they didn't eject and warp away in time, aoe blast when the ship blows, loss of insurance when you initiate, etc. i could even support that all damage done be put on a killmail and sent out so that you know you did that 1% damage and so does everyone else but profit automatically? time to bring more firepower."
"/signedthe only change i would push for is ship size should determine how far away it is forced to decloak."
"do not support, as mentioned, the serverside savings would be minimal, there are many reasons a person may not be able to play for 6 months and ccp would be reducing the potential return rate of previous customers.if there ever arises a need to use the space for something else, an account inactive for a long time could be archived, for reintroduction to db if the account is reactivated."
"/signedi don't support it for the server savings, but i do support it for the clearing out of disused names.if they want to keep them around give them a serial number and then file them away if they insist on keep them."
"without flaming, i would like to hear why you think this is needed. i mean i dont see any real reason for it to be hidden."
"lolno!"
"this would run like half my fun"
"actually... that would be a big part of it.today, when you want to apply for an apartment or to buy a firearm, they have to run a background check. that means the company you're dealing with has make a special request through a legal agency to research your records. that costs them money for one thing  which is why you have to pay their fee for them , and also takes time for the info to be returned  hence the week long waiting period on firearms .now here we have our entire biography to include geneology, our employment history, our criminal record and overall criminal status.not only is this an invasion of privacy, but it does take a lot of the fun out. people use the employment history to see how old a character is. \"oh, he's only been playing a month... i think i'll go flip him just for ****s and giggles.\""
"/against"
"i would like to see the csm members able to move/delete threads.; "
"maybe it's a given that the author supports his own idea? you don't need to be able to show support in your own threads."
"if the devs/gms actually read and spoke about the ideas put forward in that forum then you'd never see idea/bug/whatever threads here.unfortunately, they don't, so here you go.delete the ideas forum, or start reading/responding to the ideas put forward there."
"this^"
"i support, perhaps inconjunction with this ccp could put a filter on chat that would automatically block and send automatic notification to gm's of communication from any player referencing known isk selling sights."
"/signed"
"it takes me about 45 seconds to do all this, and 3 minutes for the laggy petition que to get it put thru.in a fight, you can betcha i'm not going to petition some guy that's filled local 10 times over with their spam. i just click/block.unfortunately this puts a crapload of people who no longer exist on my block list, which i hate having to filter every month.i wonder just exactly how many petitions the gm's get every time 1 spammer hits someplace like jita/amarr/rens."
"after yesterday i really must say there is something wrong with the client- eve space..and it all appears to be a bandwidth issue in and out of the universe combined with a cluster preformance issue. 1 the bandwidth issue all appears on the last hop to ccp. i dont know what it is but its been that way forever some of the players money need to be spent on pulling some new trunks to backbone links or something, and the blasted forums needs to be removed from the cluster and put on its own stand alone system. 2 lagg, after todays fight in sv5 i have seen how bad its gotten....i would expect for a cluster that has been touted 5 years ago to be able to handle 100k continious users to be able to handle upwerds of 5% of the online people in fleet combat, currently it cannot handle .5% ie less than a 10th of the online users get to a fight and the cluster chokes to death with 10-15 minuits lag..ship destroyed jump to pod borked log out to fix cant get back in /disconnected cant get back into game. this is with a competly striped down client and everything. this is utterly rediculas on the face of it. and they want to run ambulation on top of it thats not even funny. the csm council should push for fix's to gameplay over anything like ambulation. if ambulation and other bells and whistles are added then the intent of eve has been lost and has become a cold hard dark cater to carebear empirical universe,and all of us who play in the real eve 0.0, will have become a sideshow. seerindarkness"
"yup, way more notable than killing a shuttle."
"agreed on all points. except for the fact that katashi in theory doesn't support this yet."
"a friendly bump and a /signed for this idea"
"i'd have to disagree with this.agents being spread out, is about the only motivation people have for moving from system to system.if you could constantly work out of a single system, for all your l1-l5 missions... people would eventually flock to the prime locations. like was stated above, 0.5 with no dangerous low sec close by. then you're guaranteed to make the most money, since you're saying there will no longer be a difference in quality based on location.you think jita is bad, for all the trade going on. imagine when every single rookie is told, \"hey, the best place to make money is the ????? system.\"it's much easier on the servers to have people spread out, which they won't do on their own, guaranteed.and besides, it makes more sense. agents are assigned to various locations. they live there everyday, making friends with the locals. then when they hear about something exciting in the area, they make a note for the next capsuleer who passes through. you do the job, and he pays you for helping out his neighborhood. and it's no surprise that they would rather do business in person than discuss killing people for money over some e-mail.i vote for status quo."
"i still hold the opinion that the way the csm voted down this issue, especially with the argumentation that 'explorers are just lazy' and 'eve isn't a solo game blahblah', was very narrowminded and that we as csm should look into this issue again. i'm willing to handle the paperworks of this issue, if it matters."
"please do ank and you'll have my support with it."
"expand your area, you can find plenty of good belts in empire if you look."
"csm formal meeting 8. sunday 3rd august. 16:00 hours eve timeagenda:announcements:1. tba2. tba csm raised issues  to be submitted in templated form to csm mailing list by 18:00 hours friday 1st august. 1. the \"nano-nerf\" implications as per dev blog - popular issue2. musical instruments in ambulation - bane3. specific proposal for 0.0 sovereignty revamp - jade 4. remove ship maintenance bay restriction - inanna5. covert cyno fields should ignore cyno jammers - jade/tusko6. turn titans into mobile stations - bane7. remote rep criminal flagging is broken - jade8. autopilot options in fw - avoid enemy sov - inanna9. covert jump bridge activation range  too short  - jade10. changing carriers combat roles - bane11. prime fiction for the 3rd bloodline  more needed  - jade12. motd for fleet/gang window - jadepopular issue  biggest unaddressed assembly hall issue  will be added after csm raised issues. 1. its speed this meeting being added in as issue 1.aob  any other business   additions can be submitted prior 18:00 hours friday 1st august 1. tba2. tba***all csm delegates and alternates are invited to attend. serenity steele is on holiday and we'll need at least one alternate for voting, lets try to have as many people as possible present."
"disclaimer: this is just my thoughts. i write this as an conceptual idea for how the council should work, which is largely based on feedback i get from people as well.this topic comes from the discussion there was in another post link here , about streamlining the process of raising \"smaller\" issues, which requires little debate.recently, we have seen a lot of discussion about balancing certain ships. it's pretty obvious that it was going to be the case, but i think that the \"issue\", as i see it, needs to be discussed.so what is the issue? it's what csm it turning out to be. right now, the community is concerned with ship balancing, which is quite fine. it just shows that people are concerned about the game. but there is a downside to it, as well: whiners and people who wants their ship to be \"fotm\". and is this already the case? i tend to think so. let me tell you a history:i was recently sitting down on irc and ingame, gathering feedback for an issue that was raised about ship x. the issue being raised was that the ship was underpowered and needed a fix. i ask these people approx. 10 different persons , whom i consider to be reliable sources, and ask them about their thoughts on the proposed ideas. and the response i get from large majority \"don't listen to those whiners, the ship is fine\". mind you, these are people who actually flies the ship. and knowing the community, i think it's obvious that if there was an issue, they would have said so. so i went onto sisi, and tested the ship myself. the conclusion, in my mind, was that the ship was quite ok as it is.this is just an example of how some issues, especially in regards to ship balancing, is a matter of personal taste and how you fly. they made some good points, but we are seeing an increased amount of eft warriors, which doesn't account for piloting skills of the individual. so for the council to actually act on ship balancing issues, is a totally slippery slope. but if that is what is the concern of the community, surely that is fine?i actually tend to disagree. if the council ends up just bringing forward ship balancing issues, we will forget what the council is supposed to: set a vision for the game. that is what ccp expects us to do. if we waste all our time with ship balancing, which i'm sure ccp is already doing plentiful, we will become narrow-minded.i think it's much more important to discuss how we can make 0.0 sov. mechanics more interesting by adding more layers or how for missions to become more interesting. but if we focus on specific ships to get buffs, the collective creativeness in the community, will go lost. it's, in my eyes, much more important to talk about \"larger\" mechanics, which affects a lot of people, than the ships itself. in my eyes, it's much more important that missions are fun for instance , than the fact that ship x should be able to do x and y. while i'm setting a bad picture for ship balancing, that is not to stay it shouldn't happen at all. again, it's important that if there is an issue with ships, ccp should get informed. but i'm not entirely sure if the council is the best way, at least not in it's current form. we need to focus on what is important.but how do we fix this? the ideal way would be for a hands-off approach from the council, in regards to ship issues. but i think this will eventually be counter-productive, as well. we need to stream-line the feedback channels for ship issues. an idea could be for the council to give ccp a document, a bit like the patch-notes we get, with the suggested changes to ships. but it's obvious that some ideas, are not going to be good. so together with the attribute ideas, a \"target effect\" should be included. this means that if the idea that is being put forward sux, ccp can propose an alternative solution, that will fix the i"
"that's the first sensible thing i've heard a member of the csm say yet, if i'm honest.you guys should be focusing on bringing gamebreaking issues and advancement in terms of content and stability rather than putting suggestions to the panel at ccp about how to make ship x a solopwnmobile.i was sickened to see the amount of people come to this section of the forums with their \"nerf this, boost that!\" threads in an attempt to drag the csm's focus away from what they should be doing.in my opinion, elements of game balancing in terms of ships, modules, and any other numbers and and effects should be left to ccp. they designed and built the game from the ground up, they play it every day. it should be ccp who play god in new eden, not players."
"yes, i was quite displeased with the very specific ship issues brought up in the recent meeting. i already said there, that if these issues are brought to ccp's attention, i don't want them to be more than \"look, this is the list of ships the community has complaints about, pass it to the balancing team, kthxbye\" without much further discussion. there are many more very important issues that we should deal with, and frankly we shouldn't spend 20 minutes discussing if ship x needs a powergrid increase since that is up to ccps balancing team, not us, nor the players, nor ccp's csm group. ccp already slapped us on the wrist last time for bringing up too many trivial issues and urged us to look at bigger things, and i think that is the way to go as well. if you don't think a ship is valid to fly, then don't fly it, there's plenty out there that is!"
"players that complain about ship issues are focused on these kind of issues because its part of their play style. either rp as in the fw thing or just they specialize in that field and that's how they roll and it is important to them.is it small issues? yea probably in the grand scheme of things. but anna, telling some one to fly something else is the wrong approach. i am pretty sure if the procurer or any of the mining ships were unable to full fit a decent set up and be effective for example, and you told the miners \"if you don't like it fly something else\", you would have the villagers wielding pitch forks and storming the castle. there has to be a different approach to this. i think in the form of ship specs it need to present to ccp in that form. no trivial bantering kind of thing. something a dev can look at quickly and see numbers and say \" yea that sucks\" or \" what are you smoking, its in line\" kind of response. but also what would help too, is communication from the csm and ccp telling us what you are looking for to bring up for discussion. what are the parameters and the scope of the issues you are looking for so we will not get the \"niggling\" stamp on it.also what constitutes niggling? give us definitions so we know how to approach it. if your player base has the understanding on what it is that they and you are looking for this would be a lot easier."
"yes and no.....i do agree with you that ship balancing shouldn't be the realm of the csm.however, i think the csm is missing the forest for looking at the trees. wouldn't it be a better match to the csm idea be going to ccp and saying something like \"ship balancing is a very important part of the game for many players. you should put a forum section up along the lines of the one used for comments to devblogs that allow players to respond to topics but not create them. put a topic on each ship where a dev discusses just that ship and issues with it.\"  comment just off the top of my head i think the biggest problem with balancing issues is that most players don't even know if the devs are aware of the percieved issues. i think most would be fine with ships if they had a dev comment along the lines of \"yes, we know that. here is why we did what we did....\" so i do see the root cause of why ship balancing discussions overwhelm the assembly hall being of great importance to the csm. the specifics, however, shouldn't be."
"i'm very impressed by factional warfare. i've got corp mates that are playing extensively and it's great to see the game play starting to evolve out of it.i would love to see the next \"generation\" of fw game play enhancements to see the birth of dynamic empire. the fleets that go around are basically playing a huge game of capture the flag, that resets every day. what would be cool is if the territory you capture actually stayed with your faction and your faction starts to take those systems and populate them.i suggest making dynamic \"fronts.\"so if i'm the minmatar and i take a system... then while i've won the battle, i really haven't won the war... i need to go to the next system and take it until i've conquered the constellation. if i take all the constellations in a region, then it should make the \"connecting\" amarrian regions become the new \"fronts\" for the minmatar to invade. the region i just took should now be the amarrian \"front\" to reclaim and the minmatar regions i leave behind \"lock.\"two \"home\" regions should never be able to be conquered  so that there is always a place to start  but make it so that the rest are up for grabs.thoughts csm members?nes"
"oh god yes"
"oh at least some news. let's hope this makes it to ccps attention next time.can you make sure it was actualy submited to ccp? because from what i read, it seems to me ccp \"intentionaly\" forgot about this issue."
"i wouldn't assign intent to the situation. more of, \"out of sight, out of mind\" type thing. we should hear something in august, after the next ccp-csm round table."
"please overhaul poses already"
"fully supported! it should be fixed."
"give citadels 2000ms speed and 3000hp life, or find an another solution to fix these issues."
"missiles/torps are in the category \"use when everything else fails\"i support this"
"against"
"against: find a way of sorting problems without ruining the game for everyone please!"
"against.this will kill the effectiveness of small gang pvp."
"1.0"
"give skirmish a chance!"
"/signed"
"just nerf poly carbs, leave others alone."
"sry, but i am against. that`s a madnes to change half of the game to kill \"uber\"-nano."
"against it in its current unbalanced form, too many variables nerfed at once..."
"i don't really see how the proposed changes would support my goal of enjoying pvp without getting entangled in laggy blob warfare."
"voting.as with all reactionary game mechanic changes, it goes way too far."
"voting"
"no more nerfs"
"voting no to blobs."
"they can't be serious."
"voting"
"do you really need to nerf everyone to take the edge off a few people who you claim have an unfair advantage ccp? apparently, you think you do. that is why i have to give this a big against.if you need to address people that you see have an unfair advantage, fine. address them. thier ships. their high-end modules and implants. why does everyone have to pay for your perceived abuses of a few?find a way to do this with some common sense, or leave it alone ccp."
"definately against. very badly thought through as usual from ccp"
"against"
"yes the nano needs a nerf but wow talk about a sledge hammer way of doing it.fix the stacking penelties to where they should be fix the overpowerd pollies then see where we are at before smashing the 1 style of play that actualy requires some skill from the player."
"in present form this is a bad nerf"
"support!i supported both sides. i think making votes and vetos on a dev action, though, is pushing the rights of players. personally? this is probably the best argument against having csm's.a lot of players believe they have some mysterious god-given right to control how an mmo grows and develops. they forget they are consumers, and thus their reign of control is limited to continuing to pay for the product, or not.when players starting holding sit-ins, votes and vetoes, thinking they will be taken seriously ... especially before the changes even go to test ... that's when i think devs need to take action and shut the program down."
"allo! please apologize for poor english. it not my native speaking."
"what? voting? darn right! fix those developers for changing our game!"
"vote for boosting interdictors speed, to be faster than everything larger than it...other than that i dont care...web nerf is sorta ghey"
"absolutely against.the proposed changes will break way too many things whilst fixing almost none.ccp - bring the tech i polycarbon rigs in line with all other rigs  why were they released like that in the first place?!  and that's about all the 'balancing' you need to do.if you nerf snakes, nerf all pirate sets - that's called 'balance'."
"while i fully agree that under certain conditions 'ludicrous speed' does exist and needs to be fixed, the proposed 'fix' is simply moronic and beyond stupid."
"start again with the same list of ideas that are at the top of that blog ccp. this time come up with a simple solution, with only one or two changes, that fulfills them. if it doesnt have the desired effect on tq, change a little more the next patch.dont just go argghhheahdiajd<csmpmcps and change about twenty things, completely blind, and frack off everyone, and come out with no idea what change was good, what was bad, etc.no to the proposals, start again, nerf speed, but do it carefully."
"bad changes - no.fix the speed, but have a better look first at what's really broken. after the proposed changes you'll have to re-balances most of the hacs, and quite probably many other ships, modules and game mechanics. try again, you can do better than that. one can hope, right? "
"against"
"against why don't you fix the real prooblems in eve, insted of braking it more.also, fix the lag, and yes it is server side."
"against the nano-nerf.against the blob!"
"againstfix lags and blobs"
"against yes,some overpower stuff need to nerf. but i dont see any balance in dev blog. it'll kill nano, blast boat, small ship,small gang and guerrilla warfare. ones again, ccp turn overpower stuff to trash. is it nerf ? i dont think so, it is kill."
"againstdon't kill nano"
"completely against.i don't need to see it on test for a month or even wait another 24 hours before i test it myself to know that it will completly screw up the entire game, cause server crashes, and ultimately force 150% of the playerbase to stop playing.this is nothing but a reaction where ccp was bullied by forum posts, threats and csm polls. i am absolutely certain my opinion is that of the majority of players, and as such, you apparently listened to a very vocal and whimpering minority when you came up with this new nerf.you should probably always clear any decision you make about the game with me, personally. that'll help you guys in the ccp offices to stop looking like raving jackasses. i know for a fact i'd keep you from ruining how the game should be played.against! and if this buggy thing will let me vote with my alts, it damn sure should let me vote with my main repeatedly! you suck, ccp!"
"against.ccp please make smaller changes that can each be assessed on tq. instead of this god-awful huge change to small, short range and \"nano\" combat all at once and risk breaking more things than you are fixing."
"against"
"against again cause i didn't see the support box : "
"against. too many changes and too severe."
"against"
"against"
"the commuinity is against these changes. this was made evident by it not appearing on the 20 complaints to be handed to ccp.skunk"
"against.i don't believe that this voting is the right way to go. it is useful a little bit, to judge the community response. but it certainly can't be a major deciding factor.i have written my concerns regarding the big redesign of pvp system here:"
"against the nerf."
"how many alts have voted, i wonder?i can count the number i've used on two hands, at least."
"this entire \"solution\" reminds me of someone running through thier house with the lights off trying to smash a pesky mouse with a baseball bat, destroying everything he owns in the process. all this will do is encourage people to blob more... one of the proposed changes might have been fine, but jesus, why drop a freakin nuclear device on the problem when a hammer and chisel might have sufficed?? chani is not an alt. she is my wife. "
"cause i think it's going to break parts of eve.and no my main doesn't post, mr uhh guy who was talking about alts before."
"signed against"
"i'm against the nerf."
"against"
"alts can vote to support the proposed changed too"
"all hail the mighty drake blob, ccp cmon use ure brains this nerf is ******ed"
"against.i don't deny that nanos need looking into, but this is not the way to do it. these changes will harm ships that require speed to commit to combat and enter webrange."
"yeop, cry doom... i have already supported this thread!"
"against, although i do like the look of the assault frigs post patch with 60% webs, would be great to have those things less then useless."
"there are 4 races atm, if you go through with this speed nerf 1 of them will be completely useless and 2 of the rest will be crap..."
"against, don't break your game."
"i'm caldari but i still think that speed nerf is bad for the game."
"against"
"but, but, but ... i have multiple accounts!i have voted against the nerf with all of them. all my alts, all my accounts, and a few trials, too. i seriously don't want this to go through. all propaganda aside, i don't think the changes fix the issue, which is why are there so many ships that cannot be used with the same amount of effectiveness and survivability as current nanos? it's a bigger issue, here. "
"i think speed/agility could need some rethinking, but...the changes that are proposed right now are too many and too grave for one single patch. also they look like bandaid solutions that could break more than they could fix. needs moar caution imho."
"in its current state the nerf is a bit extream but only testing will tell for sure"
"<insert generic argument here>"
"against"
"against!"
"im going to say, i dont see a nano \"issue\" just lots of people not using their heads. for gods sake, get a few minni ewar frigs, they are hardly difficult to train, and will solve all your problems.fully against."
"against"
"support"
"supported."
"support"
"support"
"suport"
"support"
"/signed.snakes, polycarbs, and gang bonuses need to be re-balanced.changing ship base speeds is a very bad idea."
"against the nerf. its too much."
"nerfs are bad, m'kay."
"edited"
"/signed"
"against"
"against!*sigh this is becoming an ever ending cycle i spend my time and sp training to be good at somthing  exploration for example  just get 1/2 decent at said thing and voila theres ccp pullin out the neurf bat, why not fix problems that require fixing instead of just outright breaking your own creation ccp! maybe nano ships need a little tweaking etc... but this purposed nurf is just simply put a sledge hammer to knock a pin into plasterboard oh so wrong </2isk>"
"against why help basic players who only know do f1 f2 f3 f' to fight ??why help players who only know fight in 50 man gang ??why help players who only know do gate camping ??space combat is not static a nanoship is killable many nanoship die in eve neutralizer on battleship is a very good weapon against nano webifier is a good weapon against nano with good tactics and reflection kill nanos is possible inty with webs and missileboat work to kill nanos solutions are already available in game why nerf nanos"
"against nanonerf"
"teh nanos we must saves them."
"i like fast ships"
"against the nano nerf... especially against nerfing the ship i have spent 2 years to fly perfectly: the huginn"
"rebalance t2 missiles  and possibly warp scrams and neuts  instead of an entire way of playing the game."
"fail method of balancing. devs needs to perhaps try pvp."
"against definitly !"
"against nanonerf"
"no nanonerf!"
"quite the opposite: nanos will still be viable, just not invincible... it has 0 effect on a blasterboat  fyi, after the change a scram web combo will slow people down more than a web does now small ship pvp?? this change is the best thing to happen to small ship pvp in a long time. fit an ab to an assault frig and it can still orbit at 1km at about 450m/s while webbed you have any idea how hard it will be to hit somthing with that small of a sig radius with that high of a transversal? huge buff to small ship pvp.you just have to adapt, instead of staying out of web range, you want to get in as close as you can."
"*votes against returning to caldari online*"
"do not nerf stasis webifiers"
"its not a web nerf, its a afterburner buff in disguise."
"speed is a valid tactic in any kind of warfare whether in internet space ships or rl."
"i'm against this nerf!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"stupid nerf"
"against in the form presented"
"maybe you shouldn't be able to go 12k+ in a vaga regardless of the billion+ you put in it. but this nerf proposes far more than just gimping speed. they want to be able to reach into my ship and turn off the engine entirely.jjust say no to spacetanks online."
"go nano!"
"against !!!!!!!!!!!go nano"
"ccp is ****ing ******ed, they've never played the game they make game breaking decisions about. stop watering down this game before there's nothing left to kill each other with."
"against ofc :p"
"against the nerf!"
"**** nerf!"
"not really a fan.nerf the nerf."
"horrible idea to fix any kind of speed issue, even though there really isn't one, only in extreme cases.stop dumbing down eve ccp! if you keep this up i'm gonna go play hello kitty online!!!!"
"againts.this fix make to ruin the game and unbalance.why ?another implants overpowered aka slave,crystal and get another bonus percent, command ships too,boosters too and etc.minnie ships go to crap.  for the nanoships then this patch no speed,no tank,no firepower and no web bonuses for recons a simple crow will be kill a rapier or huginn with 50% webs. 8k/s ship against 2x50% web = 2k/sblaster ships go to crap. heavy ships can move fast enough to optimal range because, the 50% not enough.web nerf an idiotic idea when from the velocity reduction there is a word.a weapon was no other kind till against the fast ships than the minmatar recons, it is ruined now."
"nanoz are fun..."
"against nano nerf."
"against nano nerf, or at least in its current form"
"against"
"."
"against"
"against!!!"
"against"
"against"
"against the nerf"
"this thread need more alts \/"
"this thread need more alts \/"
"this thread need more alts \/oops postid with my main"
"... forgot the checkbox, so reposted..."
"definately against ....."
"against... this time with checkbox.amanda"
"against"
"against. this will kill interceptors for me."
"ffs people !!!if you are going to/wish to vote then at least take the 2 seconds it requires to make sure you tick the box \"check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\" in the bottom or the vote will not be countedif you don't then the most you are doing is bumping this topic every now and then.mark 1 eyeball 4tw"
"der."
"ohyah"
"posting cause i'm just that cool."
"against."
"against"
"so, ccp you want to nerf speed, huh? so you take an axe to webbers and the hardest hit falls on the race that is best equipped to deal with the nano-ships; aka the minmatar.great plan, as usual. not. like i actually have to say \"against.\" jeeze.... get some people on the balance team that actually play the game in a mode other than testing pvp on sisi."
"i can see the need for ludicrous speed to be brought down a notch with slight nerf to some speed mods and implants.but the proposed webifier nerf with the new mwd disruptor funcitonality hits gallente blaster boats even more. other weapon systems are close on their heels without the range penalties."
"against the nerf as it stands.too many things changed all at once = higher likelyhood of seriously breaking the game.give mwd's a maximum run time based on skill and a cool down time  also based on skill . that would limit how long people can keep a mwd active.think about scripts for webbers so they can actually web rather than just engine damp. i.e. add a kinetic damping script to webbers, and an engine damping script for normal operation. this would stop people gliding back out of web range due to their velocity/kinetic energy. it would encourage dual webs one with each script.make webbers chance based  not change on or off  but chance % of effectiveness.... ..."
"no significant nerf"
"against - this kills small gang pvp."
"against!because i didn't spend months training skirmish warfare specialist v only for it to be nerfed to hell on a whim. that's send the wrong message to people who dedicate to specialise.nerf mwd or polycarbs which cost literally no skill to fit, don't nerf things which require insane skill training like skirmish gang bonuses."
"against."
"lol, even if every second character is an alt in this thread, it still beats the hell out of the whiners who instigated this whole speed nerf thing and their thread 3 to 1, as i said, even if 50% of posters here are alts, and 100% of posters in the \"for the nerf\" thread are mains, the number of \"mains\" here would still outstrip the other bunch there. feel little scared that ccp might wake up and actually reconsider the nerf?"
"against"
"uhm, all i can say to the proposed changes is \"no\".i find it to be such a paradox that ccp is so uber careful about the implementation of new ships  like black ops and marauders  as to make their usefulness questionable or broken. yet, they are willing to instigate broad sweeping changes like this maddness on a whim.it makes me really worry about the mental health of the people up at ccp hq.oh, and against! especially against as proposed."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"againstx2and not always against nano nerf, but against the web nerf too!!!"
"this is sadlinkage"
"against."
"definitely against.taking out nanos will take out the best  and arguably only  way to roam while surviving gatecamps, and fight outnumbered and against entrenched defenders."
"against. it's almost as if the people involved in the 5-hour meeting couldn't decide on which steps to take and, so they could get to the pub in time, just decided to go for a random bunch of them.edit: oops, supportin this"
"speed does need some adjustment, but not like this"
"against it!"
"against"
"againstmainly because the dev blog lists a theoretically 4+billion in implants complains about how unfair poly's are then concludes with nerfing webbers and boosting scramblers w-t-hevery time i read that blog i just cant get around how out of touch it seems did zulupark ghost write it ?"
"against for reasons already articulated"
"quoting the post below, especially the first part. doing this will kill small gang warfare in 0.0, this it not the game it was pre hotdrop, titan bridge, jump bridge, large bubbles and rapiers"
"against, altough nao's need nerfing as speeds are indeed broken, i do not bleieve this is the way to go"
"against.u are killing small gangs. i do not want to make 60+ jumps on bs. u are boosting gate camps and killing major part of the game. may be webs and polys must be nerfed, but not all, that u wrote."
"against"
"against.speed needs a nerf, but not this wrecking disaster with reactivation delay, mwd disabling scramblers and web nerf."
"against"
"against."
"against! bad idea"
"against nerf!!!! dont kill small gang!!!!!"
"against !!!!"
"against nerf!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!very bad idea!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"against!ccprethink your nerf ideas, maybe start with bringing polycarbs in line with other rigs....."
"stop this carebear- blob- drake- online ideas"
"/signed"
"nerf lag!"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"worst idea evar"
"against nerf and ccp plz fire those devs that doesn`t even seem to know anything about the game"
"no nerf please.i just skilled up for a vagabond"
"against"
"100% against"
"i'm going to support the anti nerf side here, sure things need to be done but the proposed changes aren't them."
"against the proposed changes."
"against nerfing speed in souch a drastic way. if you do so, nerf shield and armor tanking as well because if you add all bonuses that exist in game for tanking  implants, boosters, faction mods...  you can get a pretty invulnerable ship which is very hard to kill. as opposed nano can be easily beaten by webbing. even now for a solo nano hac worth 250 mil it is hard to kill a single bs worth 100 mil  insured to be worst  if he is fitted right. in vaga for example. one nos and you are dead or need to flee.ccp you are wrong. fix your engine and beat lag. dont mess up with existing game mechanics.against!"
"against speednerf"
"its overkill there must be some otherway off doing thisimplant suggestion is off the wall  imagine the whines about them not being inline percentage wise to eachother with theese changes i wont have anybody elses day to ruin p.s. if you cant counter nanos in its present form you fail hard go play with the veldspar instead mmmmm k?"
"ouch// again, against"
"against"
"polys into line, nerf the ships that can deal damage at 4km/s  ishtar/sac , decrease bonus on snakes, i like the skirmish link change, i like the base speed realigning, but other than that its not good - making polys/nanos a cross-breed mod slows down the hacs and recons too much  other than vagabond, which is would still be faster than most of the current nanocruisers .web/scram change is not so hot, gonna screw blasterboats, give the webs 5km opt+10km falloff  which effectively gets you to the same end result you desire but makes them still work for blasterboats , and do something different with the scrams."
"supported.a nerf is needed, but a big change of this scale is not required.oh and when a dev posts what he considers a \"nothing special\" setup that contains a full snake setup and t2 rigs, it doesnt inspire confidance in his idea of good balance. come back tux, we all miss you!"
"against .. no doubt"
"against"
"against"
"elwoood, you are right! against"
"/signed"
"."
"against nano nerf"
"/signed"
"against nanonerf"
"against nano nerf!"
"safe the nanos!"
"against"
"against"
"no way !i am all against that nerf"
"against"
"i support this thread's idea - no nerf"
"i am against a nerf"
"**** you nano nerf"
"/signed against nano nerf"
"in slowing everyone down, ccp is pandering to the squeels of empire carebears who never leave their drakes/ravens, and sook when they get killed by a rapier/ishtar etc. a character that has spent 1 month training heavy missiles should not have a chance against a 2 year old character who has skilled for speed, and has the isk to spend on speed mods. adjust polycarbs all you want, but banish this ridiculous notion of scrams/web changes ffs ccp stop pandering to people who will play for 7 months and leave - show some loyalty to the players that have been around for 2 years +"
"against, this time with thumb up"
"against-----------in slowing everyone down, ccp is pandering to the squeels of empire carebears who never leave their drakes/ravens, and sook when they get killed by a rapier/ishtar etc. a character that has spent 1 month training heavy missiles should not have a chance against a 2 year old character who has skilled for speed, and has the isk to spend on speed mods. adjust polycarbs all you want, but banish this ridiculous notion of scrams/web changes ffs ccp stop pandering to people who will play for 7 months and leave - show some loyalty to the players that have been around for 2 years +"
"/signed"
"against"
"stop nerfing things and let the massive community blance itself.look at lag, and the otehr aspects of our game that is borked.. hell no we won't go!!!"
"/against"
"i'm against nano nerf"
"against"
"/against"
"against"
"gayest nerf eva!!!against"
"against it."
"against save eve !"
"i vote nay to nerfbats!"
"against"
"i endose this product and/or service."
"do not want"
"it will happen.ccp doesnt deploy the smart people who actually play the game hardcore and bring these hardcore experiences into their thought-trains when making up \"fixes and nerfs\".i fully agree that speeds need to be nerfed, cant have a fleet stabber running 21,000 ms per second and outfly interceptors.its these weekend warriors and little gate-camping *****es that started to cry cause their 12 bs gang got wtfpwnd by 6 hacs. but, they didnt consider to bring a rapier or a few interceptors...and thats their problem. yet they cry that they cant get hacs.if ccp introduced a speed cap on each ship-type, that would be a fix.but nerf everything from webbers to mwds."
"signed. this nerf would only increase blobbing."
"signed. people often use the term \"adapt or die\" in eve, notice how its always said to the people who are protesting a nerf?"
"/against"
"against"
"/against"
"guys voting, please remember to click the box to show support for the thread or it doesn't count!you can go back and edit it if you forgot. you should have a little thumbs up on the left hand side of your post if you did it right."
"against"
"against!"
"against!"
"against, ****tiest idea ever ccp you idiots"
"against"
"against"
"against, ccp dont attempt to fix something that isnt broken"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"- waiting for things to hit sisi is pointless, sisi is not eve. players do not play on sisi with the same attitude as they would in game. sisi will not predict how people will play as everything is free, no-one goes to sisi to join a blob. proof for this "
"against with all my .. erhm .. several characters"
"a g a i n s t"
"lots of people forgetting to hit the support button..."
"against.enough reasons have been listed on loads of eve-dedicated forums."
"lol ccp you fail"
"imho ccp want to go to far with this nerf/patch. i think vaga can be fly litle slower but all that things about scrambler and web nerf  oh and btw vaga can killed by noob in raven with cruise and no heavy neut:d ???"
"\o/"
"im against this idea, way to drastical and not very well thought through."
"against this nerf, get it back to the blackboard. i do agree that cruisers and bs's top twinked speed is abit much, but there are other ways to go about this and in alot smaller steps."
"signed against"
"/against the nerf!"
"against"
"signed against"
"against - even though it works in my favor."
"against"
"against the changes as outlined in the devblog. not against more reasonable readjustment of ship speeds and especially \"ludicrous speed\", polycarbs et al."
"speed up, carebears downnerf snakes, maybe add slight stacking penalty, but please don't ruin nano gangs."
"bart no like, baaaad medicine."
"as usual, when ccp set out to nerf something they miss the target and pound something completely unrelated into the ground.against the blasterboat nerf."
"funny i am not a big fan of ships going over 15k, but i just dont think this is the way to fix it with one hugh change. rebalance the basic ship speeds and maybe add stacking penality and see what that does for you first."
"against"
"against"
"against the way hey are proposing to do the nano nerf \"ludicrous speeds\" need to be looked at however what ccp are doing is taking a sledghammer to a ming dynasty vase... it is usual ccp tactics they can't actually muster the brains  or the time it seems 5 hour meeting lol  to think through a problem and come up with an elegant solution as opposed to brute force."
"very much against.very<-speed does not need change.it is fine as is.nanos die all the time.against"
"ccp probably has some idea how to fix the game, but this is not one of them, against!"
"will you guys kill me if i sayagainst against nanonerf?"
"against"
"aginst!they kill sabra! now they kill vaga!stop ruin this game and fix lag problem first!"
"against"
"against"
"against...stop pushing for blob warfare when servers cant even handle it.."
"againstsmall gang warfare will be non-existent in 0.0 gg"
"against!"
"use a \"support\" button when replying to this thread with support. it is part of your reply, right underneath \"check here to preview your post\" button."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"nano's are fine. its the crazy gang mind linked ones that ppl hate....not the run of the mill t2 slight faction rogue 3% nano ships....don't nerf my zealot...please!"
"against"
"against"
"laughs at those nano cloaking pvp *****'s crying out loud all over da forums.adept or die as allway's in eve, now get over it."
"i don't fly nano's but am still against nerf"
"thisthisthisthis"
"againstthink before adding content then you don't need meetings lasting hours and hours to come to the conclusion that you might have to p*** off half your member base again"
"against!"
"against"
"against!"
"against"
"against"
"*;..;*"
"for real this is fail."
"pls ccp dont make this mistake."
"against"
"i am most certainly against"
"does this mean that if i vote here i'm with the majority of all players? cause that's cool. it means i can laugh and point at the people who are less than we are. they really shouldn't be allowed to live. we should probably take their land, make them work for us, and live the good life."
"by the way, the only reason the other guys have so many votes is because they are using multiple accounts and trial characters and alts."
":d"
"against"
"oh christ, against. hopefully they have the balls to admit they were way off base."
"those of you who supported this thread and did not click \"check here if you want to give support to the idea/discussion going on\" located bellow your \"smiley\" faces - go back and edit the post, and click on that button. if we do not \"win\" by virtue of popular demand, at least this issue will have to be raised to csm and ccp, and thus we will get at least an overview and proper balancing of the proposed changes, as opposed to the unilateral and heavy handed approach ccp has chosen now."
"against this nerf"
"against"
"against"
"against in the form it is presented today"
"against"
"do not nerf nano, small gangs without nano will be very difficult to have fun and at blobs days that we are choices will be very short"
"against"
"against."
"hello"
"against !"
"definately against. poorly planned reactive tactics as always."
"against. the death of small gang warfare"
"i think nanos, in their current form, are overpowered, however this nerf hits them too hard, removing one of the few viable methods for small gangs to exist, particularly considering the state of both lowsec and 0.0, with them both inhabited by blobs that the smaller gangs need to get away from. also, this nerf is too wide-reaching and changes too many different mechanics, making me fear that it will hurt the viability of blaster ships and cruiser hulls in general, as they can't tank enough damage to engage larger targets, nor can they avoid damage anymore."
"hah! we can win in an internet forum argument? frickin' awesome!oh, i definitely want to see a new vote go up about two weeks after the changes have been in test. only those who have gone on sisi can vote. that might actually be a vote worth 'winning.'hahahahaha!!!"
"against nano nerf - with all my active accounts. ccp - this is the type of mistake that will alienate such a large part of your base that you will irreparably damage the game and your subscriptions will fall precipitously. just remember when lucas had already screwed up swg and they made radical changes they alienated their remaining subscription base causing subscriptions to tank lower then their lowest lows.other sci-fi mmo's are under way and eve helps distinguish itself from these offerings  some of them not yet so public  in part by its rich and diverse combat system. take that away and lave this game's subscriber base that much more ripe for the poaching."
"small gang warfare died a long time ago with pos and capships."
"support this thread"
"erhm... ok.... *backs away slowly....."
"signed against. proposed changes would change the game to much and favour blob warfare."
"against!"
"balancing is ok, but this nerf is no balance."
"against the nano nerf!"
"against"
"against"
"against!"
"against"
"whats going on in here"
"nerf is bad"
"a good idea tbh, worth looking into for those with the powers..."
"i agree with this one.i also agree with someone's idea about actual logistics ships vs space nurses"
"it's been a year with no action on this - refund the people that want refunds and release them again when they actually work."
"/+1"
"/signed"
"i support this. and to go along with it, making stations much larger than they are now. put the two together, and you bring a lot more logic into the application of this huge space station."
"my thumb, you can have it"
"nanos need to be balanced so armor and shields are options to pvp again."
"support."
"i support !"
"im supporting the nanonerf."
"supported, all small gang pvp should not be around the same ship/kind of ship."
"by the way, if ccp did succumb to some kind of vote or veto, it would really lose a lot of it's respect. players should never dictate major changes to the point of being able to bend the companies arm.offering suggestions is one thing. but now that i think about it, i'm really appalled that i've 'voted' at all, no matter what my stance is."
"rabble..rabble..support..rabble..rabble! maybe some further balancing is required but speed defiantly needs to be drastically changed in my opinion and the suggested changes sound like a good idea. i'll update after play testing on sisi."
"support"
"i support this endeavor."
"i wonder exactly how many alts are posting?"
"i support it"
"support!all those changes in pvp will be fresh air! let's see who will adapt better!"
"i support this rebalance and all the goodies that come with iti choose chaos!"
"full support"
"support it"
"supporting.i hope i checked the box correctly."
"speed tanking needs a few tweaks, what can i say...this is a good place to start. i don't want it to go too far the other way, but a good long look at balance is long overdue in this regard."
"\o/"
"down with speed!"
"mostly support - minmatar ships   claymore, claw, etc have speed bonuses inherent in them... "
"nerf nanos please, they all need to be nerfed..."
"**** the nerf, nano gangs are small roaming gangs, with the nerf there will be more blobing and greater lag b/c all fights will be blobs"
"1.0"
"bring back different setup options please, and skill for scouts."
"i hereby support this idea"
"i actually think it will help the game by increasing variety of pvp fits and thus seeing more types of ships used."
"i think the changes are heading in the right direction and we should help tweak them rather than reject them."
"bout time."
"i am 100% behind this. like others, i thought that stack nerfing the speed mods was a start, but the webifier nerf/scrambler redesign is ingenious and already the forums are filled with much discussion of new strategies and tactics. eve will be the richer for this long-overdue balancing."
"nano nerf is good, but they change so many things that i can't yet figure out if this nerf is not enough or too much"
"its about time. i really like the goals the dev stated. i hope they go through with it."
"let all the nano pilots cry their sweet sweet emo tears.i'll pack them into snowballs and launch them against their backsides."
"..."
"make pvp fun again!"
"do it"
"look at all the emo-rage in this thread. clearly completely eliminating minmatar from pvp will increase diversity of fleets.massive buffer tank here we come, i'll bring the logistics since tempest blows."
"all for it"
"for it."
"as long as it keeps reasonable, the nerf could be a good thing."
"a t2 fit vaga, withough implants will still do over 4000m/s.... go do the math yourself and then remove the foot from your mouth.if that is not fast enough for you....fly somthing smaller.....if that doesnt suit you: wow = --->"
"i agree, this has been an exploit for too long"
"i support it."
"until someone tries it out on sisi and proves that it is a bad idea i will assume that ccp know what they are talking about."
"nano nerf for the win."
"nerf it, just dont kill the blaster ships!!11"
"yep support"
"hurf"
"hope the devs dont cave in to eh /whine of the nanotards"
"i'd really like my recon 5 minmater pilot to be useful"
"even though im like a week from getting hac piloting..."
"support"
"love it, about time the nanos were brought in line."
"support b/c of the pretty graph with the common sense downward slope. anything they change is fine as long as this basic principle is the same"
"scissors have had their time in the sun, time to give rock a real chance."
"support"
"pro nano nerf.because travelingtimes will be the same.because the game will get a new dynamic.because flying frigs will be make more sense."
"i think its a great thing"
"good change i think."
"support"
"go for it ! support"
"thumbs up.."
"i'll sacrifice my vaga for a higher cause..."
"support."
"<insert vague statement of conditional support here>"
"why not, would love more diversity and not being laughed at when i tank a ship :p"
"i am excited about the proposed balancing changes, looks solid."
"support"
"support.let's bring drake blobs to eve !!!"
"nanos should die as fast as they are"
"finaly"
"yes!"
"yes"
"supported :d"
"yes!"
"much needed change, minor tweaks may be needed after but at least now more than 1 setup can be flown effectively"
"/support"
"support!"
"support"
"yes"
"support"
"1.0"
"i vote for a nerf. how big the re-balancing should be should of course still be determined. the world won't end with this, but will be better."
"i fully endorse nerfing the ridiculous speed setups...it was becoming nano setups online, killing every other tactic in the game."
"never flew one, they are a problem tho .."
"support the nerf"
"supported"
": "
"fortunately eve isn't a democracy : "
"if i hadn't been in favor of nerfing nano from the get go, all the tears from pathetic legion would have made me in favor of it now ; "
"support the nerf"
"/signed"
"for diversity!but please look into how blob warfare destroys small grp pvp activity.. insane speeds because of nanoing is one problem... the fact that slow smaller ships not using speed as defence are useless is a shame.kind regardsarngorf"
"support"
"yeah"
"signed"
"supported"
"sure, roll on :d"
"change is good.c."
"die nano***getry"
"support"
"forgot the support thingy .. die nano die"
"count me in."
"support"
"wery nice. game will be interesting and new fitting other ships."
"support this topic"
"support :d"
"nerf the nano***gotry!"
"i agree"
"for"
"support"
"support"
"support"
"i support the notion even if i don't think it's a nerf per se, and i reserve the right to final judgement after seeing the actual results on the test server."
"i support these changes."
"support"
"full support"
"1.0"
"adapt or die +1"
"love changes... support !"
"nano nerf gogogo. i find it rediculous that when i fly the one ship class supposed to counter a nanowimp it doesn't work. i have experienced many times multiple webs on a nano hac or frig and it still makes it back to the gate and jumps through. i have sensor boosters on my huginns and rapiers for faster lock as well.potentially the apparent nerf could be too heavy. and the proposed changes to webs without buffing the minmatar recons to compensate has me prepared to mourn for them as i mourn for my presently useless arazu  damp nerf  and pilgrim  nos nerf . maybe adjusting the physics on inertia in the game, or the speed of the web effect, or the boost on a mwd/polycarb would have been enough. oh well, i have one toon training caldari, and i just started a new caldari toon for the overpowered ecm  the only ew worth much atm, if you can't beat em join em ."
"a move for the best."
"i support the nerf, although i don't entirely agree with the methods talked about in the dev blog"
"nano-ships being effectively immune to half the weapon types in the game is just stupid  blasters dont have the range, and drones and missiles cant hit at all hacs were never intended to acheive the current speeds, except for the minmatar ships. which, if you actually look at the math, are still going faster after the patch than the other hacs were before the patch...the minies are still fast enough to speed tank... and the ships that have weapons that can hit while speed tanking no longer can...the only legitimate argument i can see against this is the blaster folks complaining about blasterboats not being able to track similar sized ships without the 90% webber and not being able to catch ab without their mwds, and even that argument is a little weak... the reason that they cant hit is because they are going for max dps instead of tracking. if they were willing to fit lower tier guns, or sacrifice some damage mods for tracking mods, or even  god forbid  fit longer range ammunition to stay out of scram range, it would be less of a problem. blasters are already beastly enough dpswise as it is.also... someone the patch thread mentioned the negative response bias... saying, 90% of positive reactions never respond, while 90% of negative responses do. if they are right, with the against thread having 761 at the time of this post and the positive having 301, that means there are ~3010 for the patch & ~846 against. thats in excess of a 3.5:1 ratio there, i think ccp is on the right track"
"high dps is balance to f*@& short range of blasters, so stop talking this b*@@ ! about sacrificing dmg mods, blasterboats can survive only when it put all dps they can get from weapon. with this change blasterboats cannot compete with other ships."
"i voted for balance"
"if they cant survive switching to longer range ammo, or swapping a single damage mod for one that increases range and tracking... then its not this nerf that killed them... they have been dead for long time. zombiethrons"
"i support these change"
"fly one then write"
"for the changes, as long as they don't make missiles overpowered."
"hate nano f..s"
"nufr nufr nufr"
"nufr nufr nufr"
"support"
"support"
"thumbs up"
"whooo nerf the lot of them !!!!"
"support!!!"
"/signed. the fix is fine, web nerf + speed nerf rocks!  i fly nanos and looks like they will still work well enough. "
"yes. i think it'll balance some modules and/or ships  e.g. assault ship. with proposed earlier webifier immunity :   i think also it'll be funny to considerably boost afterburners."
"bingo"
"my arazu needs a boost!+support"
"should make things interesting"
"100% supportany change that expands the uses of more ships is a good thing"
"im for the change,but the webbers shouldnt dropped so much."
"absolute support!"
"well, i'm all for new tactics and thinking in eve.and my rifters will love the new web nerfs and the afterburner love"
"they said nanonerf killed solo... wrong! it's nano that was slowly killing solo play./support"
"/support"
"meh"
"i support these changes."
"i'm for the balance"
"swing that bat high high high."
"its not perfect , i think it doesn't go far enough, as well as those changes i would extend web range and slightly increase scrambler range to 10k."
"voting is stupid. this shouldn't be about voting, it should be about ccp doing its job and balancing the game. i'm sorry, but they know better than we do about how to do that.in the meantime, i vote yes."
"slow them down."
"it's just the guys who fly nano ships who don't want them to be nerfed. support."
"durr.like these threads about this particular case should matter. in my opinion. like anyone even knows  really  how it will work out yet...it's all about bla bla 1000 pages of personal opinions with no calculations or whatsoever to back them up :p"
"i say slow them down. while i do see a few possible bad things poping up thanks to this those can be fixed in time, right now, it's about preventing the nano-blob from being the only realistic way to beat your enemy, because they to are in a nano blob.i like my ishtar when it actually tanks like a gallente hac was supposed to, not when it flies off at 5k meters a second due to an insanely expensive fitting that only the ultra-rich can afford to lose with a smile...nerf it."
"supported for more variety. give us more options then 'nano it more' or 'die'."
"it's about time."
"nerf"
"support this topic"
"you guys are cheating! you need to post with less alts!"
"support"
"about time should of been done a year or so ago"
"supported"
"this should greatly increase the diversity of ships and their fits. to the supportmobile!"
"support."
"doesn't really affect me too much but i think this is a good idea regardless."
"overall, yes."
"nurf!"
"cool, now i can give it thumbs up aswell ^^"
"i like it"
"i want to kill some ratter. if local was removed, how will i find the ratter as quickly? i do not have 10 hours to check manually all over teh place."
"you know, i never liked the idea until i had a look at what it might offer via jade's poast. if implemented, i'm all for it, if nothing else, in 0.0. supporting it."
"this would be awsome!"
"i'd rather see carnivorous moons before i see something living prancing around in space."
"are all pod-pilots dead?you can't take this stuff too seriously. i'm not going to complain if there's something more to do in space besides mine asteroids and shoot rats. yes, there's a lot of pvp. this would be a cross between exploration and pvp between whale nuts and whale pirates. fun fun fun.personally i think ccp is waaay too hard core about \"eve is a dark universe where dark characters fly around in dark space with dark space-ships and life is dark and pvp is cruel!!!!! mwajajajajajajajaajajajajaja!!!!\"i support space whales as a sci-fi legit way to make an interesting pass-time and absolutely hilarious bouts between whale-watchers, whale hunters, and the subsequent ddd raiders capitalizing on the whole event.life for pod-pilots is short. clone contracts flow as fast as the isk. let there be space whales!"
"verily"
"supported : "
"supported. but only for non capitals. maybe even just for other black ops, cov ops and recons, and sbs."
"gets the thumb!"
"i support this change to black ops. it simply makes sense to me.i also would push to have 'transport ships' be able to use travel with black ops ships."
"definitely, blackops is horribly nerfed right now, balance it!"
"/+1"
"don't forget the third bug!if you're fighting at a pos and tell drones to attack something that's on the other side of the pos, or the shields are between you and your opponent in any way, the drones will try to go through the shields, lose lock, then return to you"
"2nd is so friggin annoying"
"this would be a disaster.zero evidence to your claim, windjammer. \"currently drones have two big bugs\"? where's your poll? did you simply shoot the breeze with your other gallente friends and reach this conclusion?this will not be the first time windjammer has claimed to speak for the majority of the player base or claim ccp has a stance on something they do not. buffing of doomsdays, increasing the skill training time for capital ships are things he has advocated and is fond of saying he thinks would \"make everyone happy\". well it would certainly make gallente pilots happy. according to windjammer, himself, gallente is dependant on drones. they don't want to wait.windjammer's advocacy is based upon what will be good for gallente, not what is good for eve and those are often mutually exclusive goals. gallente are a large, semi static group. they specialize in drone blob tactics and do not set up gunnery skills as you'd think they would given their hybrid bonuses. they prefer to click 'engage target' rather than using function-keys.eliminating the bugs of the drones and at the same time requiring more server processing for drones would serve 2 wishes for gallente: take away an important weapon  lag  and significantly reduce their need to train gunnery.j.bev"
"1  his pool is exactly here;2  your arguments are so weak that you need to resort to personal attacks? thank to proving that there are not reasons against."
"cargo rigs get us half way on industrials/transports, but something in the 100k range is warrented/signed"
"supported!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"definitely support this."
"the idea of committing forces to try and contest a stargate is indeed required. the idea of disabling warp drives of the gang/s involved in stargate capture is very very good. it is both commitment-inducing and a great way to get some small-gang pvp, something i believe everyone wants.the idea of having the timer based on ship sizes is not as attractive. also, having 10 ships as a number to induce stargate capture is a bit on the high side. smaller gangs are faster, and can hit many more gates all at once, and less numbers scattered across more nodes = less lag.perhaps the timer could be based not on ship sizes, but the amounts of ships in the gang that interfaces with the stargate to induce the contested status. 5 ships could take as long as 1 hour to induce contested status, whilst 10 ships could cause contested status in as little as 30 mins. any more and you could have penalties like the timer taking far longer than 1 hour...this would indeed give both the attacker and defender incentive not to field too many units, but just enough so that the timer penalties for having too many ships would be reduced. it is also a good limiter on blobbing, thus, less lag, more pewpew.also, i've just thought of the resource required to capture stargates: soldiers!we have them in the market, they're available from npc's, and they're currently used for fluff. why not put those grunts to work? this would also go hand-in-hand well with any other plans ccp has for ambulation, being able to watch your soldiers, and/or command them in an rts format aboard a capturable ship/station.2mil isk in."
"supported."
"supported if it could be done in such a way as to be timezone neutral."
"i'm interested in any mechanic alike to factional warfare which discourages blobbing through the general idea that different zones or even just tasks can be completed only by certain shiptypes, which in fw isminor: t1 frigs, destroyersmedium: t2 frigs, t1 cruisers, belowmajor: t1 bc, t2 cruiser, belowunrestricted: everythingi can't tell you how excellent this works to divide blobs, both my own and hostile, to fight in more of a skirmish/small gang manner which of course results in less lag. oft my gangs will be among 3 or sometimes more plex's and will net a good ammount of kills in the process. ofcourse, npc plex's aren't needed in low-sec, and implentation in a serious manner requires mor detail than i care to investigate here. but the simple idea that large gangs are given incentive to divide and be more mobile is brilliant."
"bane, this question has been asked and answered at a csm meeting. the vote to escalate went against you in that meeting and for good reason. you were trying to get the csm to agree to let you present any number of suggestions to ccp without specifying what those suggestions would be. the suggestions you did let slip were objectionable. for instance, you advocated decreasing the time it takes to train for capital ships. what do you hope to gain from this thread?i see no indication that ccp has adopted the stance you speak of. if i recall, the dev blogs from last year were concerned with carriers, not all capitals. you're right, though, those blogs were not received well. that's a bit of an understatement given some of the inventive suggestions for the demise of ccp zulupark. i'm sure everyone was kidding, but there was still a marked level of animosity in the player base.the main concern ccp had was that the carriers were becoming a jack of all trades. ccp nerfed the carriers ability to be a jump drive cargo hauler and they seem to satisfied that took away the do everything title for the carriers.windjammer"
"i agree that this is an important topic in general, but this proposal needs some specifics as it's unclear what the csm would be recommending to ccp in their discussion."
"so you just want to discuss with the developers? those ideas would have to be presented before we talk to the developers. else we will we wasting time.so now you went from wanting an open discussion about carriers and motherships, to talking about 0.0 warfare? why don't we just talk about everything you feel like, then?accepting this would be a tremendous waste of time. it would be nothing else than a small opportunity for you to discuss with the devs, with no reason."
"i'm not sure there's a solution if you see risk vs. reward as the fundamental issue.with t2 moons: suppose ccp balanced the static data so t2 products used even amounts of r256 stuff. who cares if you are defending 3 r256 moons or just the one worth the most? isn't the risk/reward about the same?all mineable moons are in lowsec and thus bear some risk. however, a lot of their risk comes from other players who want them just for the isk they can generate. if you shift the bpo requirements around so the r256 minerals are used evenly, you just shift around the risk between moons in 0.0. however, the activity \"0.0 moon mining\" is as risky as it was before...only the risk is split between the r256 minerals.with t1 stuff:risk/reward is fubared here - ccp needs to remove loot drops in empire that reprocess for high ends. i would also cut down on empire drone high end ore drops."
"i like your idea agent apple/signed"
"current mechanic is ok, please do not change."
"ctrl+alt+shift+e is your answer. pulsing rings pwn!otherwise, ctrl+q 4ever"
"i like it. it's like pretty and stuff.... /me goes back to sleep"
"predicated on an assumption that one day rsds may again be viable, the sensor booster animation needs to be avaliable.moving it to a specific option like missile animation is would be great though."
"the hypnotic effect is the only reason i'm staying in a gatecamp..."
"this is the voice of the mysterons..."
"drake is fine."
"drake is fine. the op, however, is not."
"the drake is overrated. i tried it once. good tank, to be sure. but i could have done more damage to the enemy by getting out and widdling in their fuel tank. i don't know where you pulled 400dps from."
"god go figure, a minmatar player who's so far cried about drakes, missile vs gunnery train times, and pretty much any other caldari aspect of the game... cry more little girl cry more.oh noez guys, a drake that's not screwed over by a neut barrage, a ship that can actually halfway tank like a bs at the cost of dps output, oh noez that's op.being someone who started caldari and went with minmatar later on, i can see the strength of the drake, but i can also see the weekness"
"the scathingness is there, but you need to work on the delivery. your current method makes you look petulant ; "
"2 dmg mods and heavy missiles and drones is 450 600dps with hams and 3 dmg mods"
"show me a fitting with a tank that perma-sustains 750dps while doing 600dps and has the ability to stay in range to deal that dps and you have an argument. otherwise, no."
"why would i want to perma sustain 750dps and i presented no argument appart from drake can and does do 450 dps but since you bring it up, 1 dmg mod, 3 spr ii, 3 large extender iis, 2 invuln 1 photon 7 hml ii and 3 purger rigs tanks 750 while doing 400dpsof course useless and thats why the drake is ballenced"
"."
"welcome to a few nerfs ago. ever try and do dps in a passive tank drake? it's just like ubertanking a dominix, only not as dangerous."
"you are full of fail.show me a 750dps tank passive drake with 400dps. if you happen to post a setup, please dont show me setups without mwd or only tanking highest inherent shield resists and ignoring others.drake is fine."
"wow, this post must have ignored every other post in existence about how terrible passive tanking is for pvp.a drake that is using a full-out passive tank has the following problems that balance it by making it embarrassing to bring to pvp:a  it moves as slow and handles as well as some type of space snail, because all of its lows are filled with sprs and possibly a bcu if they are willing to skimp on the tank, allowing enemies to fly circles around it.  rig slots are also devoted to tanking. b  it is completely unable to stop enemies from warping away from it, web them, disrupt their tracking, jam them, or do anything else remotely useful, because it has devoted all of its mid slots to tanking. this means any enemy can freely disengage, while the drake pilot cries and wonders why he stinks at pvp.c  it is so crappy, in fact, that it usually survives fleet pvp, because the enemy fleet commander knows that it has no means of hindering their fleet in any way, and its dps is relatively mediocre due to using low slots for tanking. who calls a drake primary if it is obviously using a passive tanking setup? might as well kill the useful ships first! d  i'm sure there are many other facets i am overlooking about how this is completely balanced, as a passive setup basically makes a ship worthless in pvp, except as bait which was previously mentioned.i vote not to 'narf' it."
"you're grossly exagerating. either you passive tank 750 dps, or you do 400 dps, but you don't do both at the same time. unless you have a drake with 7 low slots?what need a nerf is large shield extenders. something like 350 pg  to be reduced to 262.5 pg with skills , and sig radius penalty replaced by a speed penalty, would do the trick."
"i was flying around in my passive shield tanked exploration-drake the other day and got jumped by 3 guys. i almost got a deimos kill, but he warped off... i almost got a jag kill, but he warped off. meanwhile, i couldn't kill the myrm who had me locked down as my dps is awful in a passive set up... the deimos pilot came back in an ishtar and killed me with praetors  lol .the most i could do was harass them and make it expensive to kill me by shooting their t2 drones  which is what i did . i couldn't kill them or get away. they could and did kill me.the drake is fine as is. obviously the problem is you. learn to play eve."
"they should nerf the shield recharge time again. compared to other t3 battlecruisers the drake by far is way overpowered. its passive shield tank is way overpowerd."
"overpowered for what? pve?"
"a passive tanked drake is essentially worthless in pvp, which is the only place that 'balance' actually matters.oh, and a myrm can actually run a better passive tank. and do more dps."
"both titan and black ops should have 5000m range."
"i actually like this concept. the doomsday device is decidedly 'deathstar', true. it's cool. but maybe theres just too much emphasis on these being weapons to be deployed with blobs.i like the projected changes. but i wonder ... when ambulation goes live, will you be able to walk around in your titan? cause that would be cool ;?jtitans. an outpost that can be deployed and anchored."
"signed a thousand times. titans in combat right now do nothing but remove the chance for spaceships to shoot at each other. arguing specifics about cloaking supercaps, drive-bys, lag etc. is all meaningless next to the fact that we don't get to do the shooting thing. ddds are a fight-stopper, one way or another, and fights are why we are here."
"mobile outposts come with a lot of issues in how they change game mechanics. i looked into a lot of these issues in this thread.destroyable mobile outpost.prevent most of the issues this causes by limiting roles to offline location and a bit of storage/logistics. a bit of protection against the 3am blitzkrieg assault using some existing pos mechanics.fixing the \"we retreat every time you attack us\" issue and also giving a bit of opportunity for young alliances to learn and get better through measured loss:refugee stats for entering losec:protection for the titan only by the po-po.inability to undock in anything except a shuttle.must pay off large fine to system's owning empire.can only retrieve ships and goods without re-entering 0.0 on condition of leaving alliance and paying a hefty portion of base-value to empire.diplomatic peace treaty contract with ransom supportdropped loot is low. destroy a bitter enemy. ransom the random transgressor"
"so you want more ways for people to hide? i mean, we have outposts and pos already.but you are going to face 2 issues:1. how will a titan jump, if there is people inside the titan? if a person makes a session change and then titan then jumps, this person could get stuck.2. what happens to people inside the titan, if it gets blown up? they have to be forced a session change, which i doubt is realistic for it to happen. especially seeing as these people could be logged off inside it.so i doubt it's even possible, hence why ccp didn't do it in the first place."
"it's all software. anything is possible. anyone who says different is just parroting off the favorite excuse of coders, \"we're not sure it's going to be feasible.\" the key word being feasible instead of possible because everyone knows it's possible and is just hoping to avoid having to engage the problem. it's what software people do. it's no secret.good code is versatile, extensible, and easy to adapt to new implementations.it's a very healthy change to mechanics. it deserves the attention. there have been countless changes to eve that have required new solutions to the code. this one would be no different.the devs will already be having this conversation about implementation in much greater detail than any of us can possibly pretend to address on this forum. we should talk about what we want as players and not try to do the dev's jobs for them. otherwise they're sitting up on the high dev summit asking themselves, \"are the players wanting this feature or trying to shoe in solutions derived from existing mechanics because they know we're human?\"come up with a great idea now. let the great idea be implemented with good code. it will solve so many problems now and head off so many problems in the future that it will definitely become the best investment of resources."
"i think that titans need to provide more front line support, not add more to logistics abilities to them. make their defense more powerful and replace the dd with something else, maybe a defensive oriented module like a point defense system that helps kill incoming drones, dictor bubbles, frigs, etc. also improve their guns so that they can be effective at engaging other capital ships. i think titans should be leading the charge, not sitting back. give them a reason to get on to the battlefield other then to show up for a few seconds and dd the place then run off again."
"have you ever made a game? do you have any idea about eve works? despite the fact that you, in theory, could implement it, it doesn't mean it actually possible. games has to be tuned for performance and security, as well as working around some of the inherent issues of the internet, which makes these kinds of things, extremely unlikely."
"i am neither for nor against this, but he is right, anything is possible.does it have to force a session change? no.does it have to cause lag when a titan jumps to a different system with a full fleet in its belly? no, it doesn't.if you know anything about code, then you'll know that objects can contain other objects through pointers. when you do it this way, nothing need move.when you click undock, server could just say \"ok you're in a titan, where is the titan, ok we're spitting you out there\".in general the whole session thing is only necessary if you insist on a session change. tbh i don't see why it'd have to be that way. a player could be docked inside of a titan being happily oblivious to which system they are in. it could be that they only know that they're inside a titan, and who is inside it with them.again, as far as local is conserned, when the titan jumps it, it could simply say that i've got x amount of ppl inside me, bump the local up that much, and those inside the titan need not be listed until they undock.its all a matter of what you insist on having, but moving a station around need not cause the problems you mention lavista. anything really is actually possible.you can think of programmers as gods of the memory realm, whatever they say goes."
"oh my. need credentials?i'm an active contributor to the open-source graphics rendering engine, ogreit's oop out the ass. pointers galore. exactly what above poster explained. beautiful code. a dream to use. very fast. it's not too much to have it all, or at least most of it, in software.the \"do you know what you're talking about\" cross-examination is mind-boggling as a boneless chicken.stick to game mechanics, csm rep"
"\"a market service in the titan is likely completely unfeasible, as would the ability to dock or log off inside of them.\"i'm gonna call you out on not even reading the op, but let's assume ccp did want players to dock in titans. 1 - session changes also take place when entering and leaving stations, so theoretically the only thing that would change is the location of the titan in a pilot's titan hangar display  similar to the station hangar display .2 - if a titan is destroyed, everyone essentially loses their ship and gets podded. if their clone contract was located in the titan, it gets reset to something simple, like their original rookie system or their alliance hq station.imo, both problems very easy to deal with.edit: dang the guy two posts up said the same thing"
"i did read that. but that is a contradiction on the op. from my understanding, it was pretty much the point of the original titan's as well does a \"mobile station\" suggest  way of working.so we are talking about a mobile pos, huh?as for your other points:1. but if you join a gang, or there is changes to the gang, you will be forced a session change. so i must imagine that the state must change too, for the people docked, when the titan jumps2. that is possibly the simplest solution. but then we will be having problems about scenarios, like when people get disconnected, and cant get out before the titan blows up."
"why not? the state will have to be persistent in the database. why do you think we have session timers?possibly. depends on how the database works, doesn't it?yes. but now we have code living on different nodes, some in database and things like that. all these things have to be in sync. and the eve cluster has a very costly inter-node connection system. so it's not that simple.but what about the database? again, you have to consider a persistent state. so from my understanding of the eve-code, you are simplifying it a bit too much.again, session change timer is required in order to make sure that the database doesn't blow up.no. that would also break the database. anything sure is possible in software. but this is a game. there is rules to follow, there is safety mechanics to make sure the game is always in a good state and there is behaviors that must always be followed.your post does not take all this into consideration. your post just suggests that you can do whatever you want, and not care about the consistency of the game itself and it's database."
"the tl;dr version of what you just said is...'ccp may have designed the architecture of the current code badly, in which case doing this would take longer than they'd like'personally, i'm bored of people giving ccp this excuse, espeicially when they apparently have enough time to waste on concepts like walking in stations. the development of eve includes a history of ccp working more on flashly additional systems than on fixing core gameplay."
"i think there are things about session change that we are confusing.when you jump to another system, or when you dock/undock from a station, your computer performs unloading and loading of environments. it happens on a need to know basis. so when you change environments, there is potential for a lot of delay and lag. this is a problem when undocking or jumping into jita, because thats a lot of data to load.when a titan jumps into a system, sure the pilot has the pilot view, he deals with the normal session change load of all of the ships around him and the new environment.for all of the people inside the titan, they don't necessarily have to deal with that, but this all depends on how the coders implemented their system, and that is just speculation. but going by the need-to-know standard, there isn't a whole lot of data that would need to be updated for the person that is inside the titan.-update what system you're in and where the titan is in the solar system-change chatroomsso it is possible for the session change from the client-server pov to be no different than 1 person loading a new environment, and x number of people changing chat rooms.as for the backend database stuff, it could be as simple as:please visit your user settings to re-enable images. assuming that a database is used to keep track of these things at time critical moments, rather than server objects, which i am not convinced of 1. solar-system server object / database table gains reference to titan, and updates local chat.2. solar-system server object / database table loses reference to titan, and updates local chat.it could be that simple, or it could be completely unfeasible. it all depends the design of the information systems. if eve is object oriented at its core, and solar-systems contain stations  separate server object entities, or database tables , then they can lose them and gain them.if however, the station is part of the solar-system  literally, the same server object / database table , then it wouldn't be possible without a code rewrite, or extremely ghetto rigging.so you're both right, it just depends on how eve actually works on the backend, and that is just speculation."
"there are those that claim that doomsdays act as an 'anti-blob' weapon, discouraging alliances from forming up large fleets only to have their ships destroyed in a flash by a single opponent. but this is a red herring - doomsday devices can be and are deployed against small gangs just as effectively as large fleets. as such, the titan in its current incarnation serves mostly to prevent combat from taking place whether on large or small scale, because anyone going up against a titan-holding opponent knows that if they commit themselves to a fight they can look forward to every ship in their fleet being hit for 70313 damage simultaneously. it forces 0.0 warfare into a long tedious waiting game, as one side or the other hides inside a pos for hours until the titan s  either doomsdays prematurely or logs off  and let's not even get into the absurdity of the 'doomsday through pos shields' ability .at the same time, i'd be wary of removing the doomsday ability entirely - every titan pilot who spent the 10 weeks or so training doomsday operation v needs to have something to show for their efforts - but 'press alt+f8  or whatever  to obliterate enemy fleet' is a literal i-win-button and a violation of many of the principles which eve's combat system is based upon. there are alternatives like the idea of making doomsday weapons into aoe e-war devices  like the remote ecm burst recently made available to motherships  or superpowered warfare links which have come up before, and these would make a titan an important element to a fleet rather than the alternative to deploying one at all.as for logistics buffs, even making the clone vat bays functional and useful would be a nice start."
"definitly, at the current rate titans will be able to dd dreads soon"
"i could support this idea.another idea would be to remove the doomsday device and give new aoe weapons that are smaller in scale.say a new type of projectile ammo for minmatar, hybrid ammo for gallante, missile for caldari, and some sort of energy weapon for amarr.the system would be set up such that they could shoot it at a designated point  created with a bookmark with another module like a target painter that highlights the spot .does damage in a 10 km radius. you'd need to retool them though with more turret and missile hardpoints and possibly more hi slots."
"all my opinoins have already been said so i'm just gonna say. agree, remove the dd please ccp"
"something has to be done about the titans or eve will turn into a very static stratified cluster. those who have being able to hold and those that don't have only able to get leg up by joining the established those that haves."
"i always like the idea of them being a forward, mobile base.once jumped into the system and deployed they can hand out cruiser size and down ships by the request of pilots coming to it i.e a new ui where the pilot doesnt have to kick ships out etc , logistics drone bonuses so that it can repair multiple ships quickly, having defences to take out attacking forces via something like bsg's ships flak cannons. even leave dd in and make it a sort of last ditch effort to remove the attackers while you being completely outgunned.i'm pretty sure it'd never be changed - but i at least like the idea : "
"ok i see what u meant originally, so i'll take that back. it definitely looks technically feasable though, judging from many of the recent posts.as for the titan exploding scenario, disconnects shouldn't matter as they are not petitionable, as anyone can just say \"argh, my internets were broken\". it certainly make the most sense and would be really funny if in the titan loot were ship hulls, modules, and corpses."
"give them the role they were designed for plzdd spam ftl"
"i don't think we should throw away ddd's. i don't think ddd should be the primary purpose of a titan.allowing it to play greatly a more logistical role would be nice. the idea that it might function as an anchorable outpost, however, intriuges. this would solve a few issues, but mainly, the problem of what happens when the titan pilot logs off or disconnects. if the titan was to anchor and become an outpost that would stay in place when offline, atleast docking is more feasible now. when giving away it's mobility, i believe it should now gain an array of benefits. the first, ofcourse, is the doomsday itself, but now as a defensive and not an offensive. if a hostile fleet makes a move on an anchored -outpost mode- titan, the ddd is the perfect gtfo button, assisting it's allied fleet to play defense. secondly i believe it would be fair to allow it a greater deal of hp, perhaps that of or greater than a large pos.  depending on fitting  resistance  as well in scenario, it's a station you can park anywhere, great for offensives, park it on the edge of hostile territory, instant outpost. with the pricetag i dont feel this is unreasonable, and it's a whole lot better than the ninja-dd's where seeing currently. in short, give the titan a strong and tangible logistical role."
"i think part of the problem, is that dd has a cooldown on that particular titan.if they made a dd leave a residual charge in the aoe, so that other dd couldn't be used for a certain amount of time... then fleets couldn't bring in a dozen titans and wipe out any size opponent.first to fire off a dd gets the hit, second to fire does 50%, third does 25%... until the timer resets, which would mean an hour or something from the last dd set off. so setting off that 2nd blast 45min after the first would mean you have another hour to wait, and not just 15min.as for making them into a station of sorts... i would say that docking isn't terribly necessary. make them a mobile pos. you can switch modules if you are within a certain range, and perhaps allow their shields to cover you for a time. that's not to say they'd have the rediculous amounts of shields that pos do... and if the titan is reduced to armor, then your fleet hiding under its skirts is open to attack as well.i firmly agree that titans need some encouragement to become a fleet support craft again, instead of a fleet annihilator."
"you mean like one of those costly inter-node systems for parallel computing clusters? the kind that are point designed for the lowest latency and have high bandwidth? the kind meant to keep software distributed across several nodes working on one data set aware of the changes occurring at each node's problem boundary? is that the kind of interconnect you're talking about?if it's that kind of uber complex system, i've worked on one of those too, and there's no excuse for not having the system in sync. absolutely not one. you can transfer 10% of a node's data set/s to nodes on the data boundary and not bat an eyelash.forgive me if i fail to make the distinction between software and a computer game.you're continuing to describe this like a junior accountant playing a game of file cabinets. no!!! we can't move this entire drawer to another cabinet! we built the system around me pulling every file by hand, remarking the progress sheet, and then refiling in a certain order! you can't just pull a drawer out the back and refile it according to the same rules in another cabinet! i won't see what's going on!but the boss had experience. when he pulled a whole drawer, he followed the same rules for every individual file. lo and behold, the junior accountant never noticed.this is how good interfaces work. accessors and mutators do what they are supposed to when they are supposed to, following a common set of rules for accessing and modifying data, and they don't have to know what the others are up to because every one follows the rules when they do something and the whole thing stays in order. database order should be implicit in the consistent construction of accessors and mutators, not having one way to access or modify data.quit trying to over-complicate the eve cluster. a sophisticated system is elegant. a complex system is just disorganized."
"no. the eve cluster is not designed for parallel computing. the nodes are connected with gigabit ethernet, or something like that. they are working on implementing infiniband."
"agreed, however i would like you to look at my idea on making it so capital ships liuke titans have muliple points in which to shoot at making them harder to kill, yet they lose parts as each is taken out.it doesn't make sense that a ship that big can be killed by shooting one little spot untill it explodes."
"work around the theme \"battlestation\". i am only 2 months old, but i believe working around this theme should give atleast some potensial"
"i'm running for csm next electionyou missed the point. designed for parallel computing or not, a system with a high-speed interconnect should have no issues updating nodes of changes across each one's data boundary. if there are problems, it's because of poor utilization and there are no excuses.this isn't a feasibility problem. give us mobile stations and make titans serve a higher purpose than ramming the overview."
"signedthough personally i would go as far to reimburse the build cost of all the titans in game+10% recompense payment then delete them from the server and database altogether.most game breaking addition to eve ever tbh."
"this would be a disaster.zero evidence to your claim, bane. \"overwhelming attitude among 0.0 players\"? where's your poll? did you simply shoot the breeze with your corp mates and reach this conclusion?this will not be the first time bane glorious has claimed to speak for the majority of the player base or claim ccp has a stance on something they do not. elimination of learning skills, decreasing the skill training time for capital ships are things he has advocated and is fond of saying he thinks would \"make everyone happy\". well it would certainly make goonswarm happy. according to bane, himself, goonswarm has a lot or relatively new pilots. they don't want to wait.banes advocacy is based upon what will be good for goonswarm, not what is good for eve and those are often mutually exclusive goals. goonswarm is a large, semi nomadic group. they specialize in blob tactics and do not set up sovereignty and/or pos's in nearly as many systems as you'd think they would given their large size. they tend to spread out a lot rather than build an empire in any one place. they are oriented toward destruction rather than building pos's and outposts.eliminating the anti blob weapon of the titan and at the same time making it a mobile station would serve two wishes for goonswarm. take away an important anti blob weapon and significantly reduce their need to create pos's.windjammer"
"gs has the second most sov 4 systems of any alliance.zero evidence for you claim, wj. your description is not even close to accurate. i truly believe bane want's this because it will make the sovereignty game more fun for everybody  except maybe for titan pilots, but who knows? ."
"uhh we obliterate entire fleets with our titans too removed. navigatorask noobmercs about their satisfaction during their expeditions into 0.0"
"there are over 70 titans in existence and less than 10 have ever been destroyed - in 12 months we could be looking at over 150 titans in existence and maybe 15 destroyed total - this game will be totally and irreparably broken well before that pointthe sooner you do this the less tears you will have later when it becomes obvious to even the stubborn that this must be done"
"it is possible to make gold using a cyclotron, but it will cost much more than digging it out of the ground. while something can be theoretically done it is not always possible to implement it in a economical and functional way."
"stop it with the theoretical vs. practical analogies already. you sound like a presidential candidate trying to reach out to all the down-to-earth sentiments of the good 'ol boys, something that has nothing whatsoever to do with software engineering.your analogy makes it sound like a good solution is a billion times harder to do than a cheap kludge and like the readily available kludge is an equivalent product as the good solution, which anyone who writes and maintains software will tell you is completely not true.good code >>>>>>>>> spaghettithere are three issues that are naturally connected to this thread:1  ddd needs the axe2  mobile outposts3  destructible outpostsa lot of people are interested in these problems individually. because they are all tied together it's worth it to look at them as one issue. because it would likely become a central part of game mechanics, it's worth it to invest in a good solution that will be able to evolve with the game. the \"i can't shoe it in with five lines of code\" excuse isn't going to fly. three major issues. long term impact. fix them all at once and fix them well."
"so i am in the software development industry, in a way, and on the project lifecycle end of things.the feasibility is more about cost to benefit. in that way an analogy can be made that it wouldn't be profitable to expand an existing design to allow more possibilities, vs spending that same amount of time implementing new design and content.new content is more profitable, as existing customers need to feel that the game is still alive and well, that things are improving, that their chancy investment in eve is being rewarded.however maintaining and expanding on older more outdated content is also essential to long-term game health, and ccp is doing that.they're attempting to transition from static node based server architecture, to a more adaptable, expandable, and sustainable distributed cpu server architecture.this is costly and challenging. it won't bring new content, it will simply make the current game world more stable and playable, not profitable. but ccp is doing it and i believe that this is a good display that ccp loves eve on a level that other game companies do not.they don't have to bring eve into the next century, but they are.as far as destructible stations, and moving stations, it may be quite a challenge and cost, but if it improves the quality of the game for the long term, i believe ccp will do it.so the real question is, can you convince ccp that using titans as stations and being able to blow up static will improve the long term health of eve? or will it be some unsuccessful/unused feature."
"for the benefit of those of us too lazy to trawl through this website's horrible search function, could someone link to the original dev blogs referenced in the op? it would be interesting to take a look at the original concepts.tia."
"and goonswarm has twice as many members as the second largest alliance. so when you post that your goonswarm has the second most sov 4 systems of any alliance, your own post is evidence supporting the accuracy of my claim. i've put that claim in bold and underlined it for your pleasure and ease in reading.you say, \"more fun for everybody\". yeah. i've seen bane say exactly the same thing. exactly the same thing. he claims it for just about everything he suggests. i'm sure it would make things more fun for everybody in goonswarm, but that is not everybody in eve. goonswarm is large with a membership of around 5,000, but there are around two 215,000 other people in eve.windjammer"
"i haven't heard any arguments against this other than \"unfeasible\" and \"only alliances use them so it's not worth it\". for the first, there are lots of posts showing or suggesting ways to implement them, the strongest argument being code is code, it's a game and can be done.for the second, not all major changes are meant for individuals. players who don't think that titans deserve attention because they only used in null-sec by large organizations must realize that 0.0 based alliances saw little to none in changes or new content in empyrean."
"i'm sure you do, but other alliances do not have the capacity for or penchant for blob tactics as goonswarm does.windjammerremoved. navigator"
"link to features and ideas discussion thread on this subjectone of the things i've noticed how about mining is that it doesn't really need a lot of thought, it's just a case of turning up at a fixed asteroid field, targetting a boulder and letting the lasers do the work while you watch for rats on your overview.this seems a shame especially given that several of the races give options to be a prospector without really having mineral prospecting available as a viable profession in game. therefore i propose the following changes to how asteroids currently behave to allow the formation of this role.1. all asteroids will not show their type when initially discovered. instead it'll show up as being an \"unsurveyed asteroid\"2. you can mine these asteroids, however all you'll get is a hold full of bits of rock  this won't affect the ore content of the asteroid , if you want the valuable ores you need to survey it first.3. survey scanners to change from an area of effect to working only on the asteroid currently targetted.4. once surveyed, the asteroid changes from \"unsurveyed\" to it's correct type. mining then occurs as normal.5. once the ore is depleted, the asteroid doesn't just vanish, instead it becomes a \"barren asteroid\". completing a cycle on a barren asteroid will again give you bits of rock which you'll need to jettison or perhaps a use could be found for these  a bpo for construction blocks, for example the current ore fields should be changed to only have access to the basic ores,  for example, you'd have access to scordite but not massive scordite during downtime, 10% of the current barren asteroids will be chosen at random from all depleted asteroids across new eden and changed to become \"unsurveyed asteroid\"'s. this allows a supply of asteroids for newbies.meanwhile, veteran miners should be capable of hunting down richer fields  which would be located in exploration sites  which would not only have access to the richer asteroid types but would on the rare occasion have access to ore types not normally found in that particular security status.  for example, mercoxit might be found in 0.1-0.2 exploration sites "
"posting in support of my own topic."
"i do not favor removing agent quality, i am in favor of making the quality dynamic.all agents start as level 1 quality -20, to the player.doing more missions for an agent increase the quality   and eventually the level . as does standing with the npc corp, and that corp's faction.once the standing with an agent reaches say 9.5, the level and quality do not increase, you need to change agent.the new agent takes your standing with their npc corp and faction into account to set the starting point for level and quality.standings are per division, you must start with level 1, -20 for each division.multiple agents in the same division at the same station would be moved, or removed.the current starmap agent id system would be replaced by a notification   character sheet maybe   as to what your starting level would be with a new agent in the same or other division."
"i disagree with this idea... because of the same reason stated above.\"players don't want variety, they want the best.\"and they will seek out the best agent to make them money, no matter where they have to go to do it. that's why the lag is so bad, and why there are so many places being called \"mission hubs\". so taking away the quality, and making them all equal, will mean that everyone will find the best system based on sec, and everyone will gather there. find a dead end 0.5, surrounded by 0.6+, and you're guaranteed to make tons of money without any risk of dying in a gate camp.this dynamic idea, where quality gets worse as you continue to do missons, is also a lame idea. it sounds \"balanced\", but it doesn't sound \"plausible\".agents are hired on by their parent corporations, to work out of a particular location. they make friends with the locals, and listen to the rumors being told over drinks in the station bar. then when a capsuleer comes along, they see if you have a decent reputation for performing missions well. if you come well recommended, then they offer the job. when you get back, they put in a good word for you, and you move on to bigger and better missions.i think the key to breaking up mission hubs... is limiting the missions. how many people have had to rescue the damsel a couple times a day, or a couple days in a row. wouldn't it be nice if the brat stayed rescued for a little while?i think a fix is to sprinkle around a few more agents, and then make their missions run dry after a while. that way, you are eventually forced to move onto another system anyways... not because you graduated to a better agent or higher level missions, but because you did everything that was needing done in that area.and... if you use up a q20 agent, then the best nearby might just be a q10 or q2... once again giving use back to those lower quality agents who \"didn't get the prime location assignments\". they are still working for the corporation, just not out of paris or las vegas."
"supportedsort it out pvp. why not just make ravens completely immune to any for of pvp so all the isk farmers can farm in peace.at least nano pvp adds an element of skill to the game"
"how so."
"vote here instead: bigger thread already:"
"re-reading the blog your right they did say 5 hours. however i think this relates to the goals of speed, the section the said quote is from, not about the entire proposed changes. basically he says that they spent 5 hours coming up with the goals, not the entire change.also, you have no rebuttals to the rest of my post?"
"just for you."
"all games that are funded by subscriptions are democratic, game designers just have to pray the players never figure it out"
"no the players need to pray the devs never believe that nonsense. games that let the players run them fail, hard. see soe.a true democracy destroys itself even faster than true comunism. hell comunism can actually function on a small scale.having said that, big no to the veto. it's a game balance change. it's a damn good game balance change. nano will survive, however it'll be counterable by all the races not just four specialized hac/recon and bs willing to fit mostly neuts.on that topic, the bs can't tackle the current gen nano, they can only scare it off.nano will get less common and thus inversely more powerful on the few ocasions where it is used. ecm is this way, as the many, many falcon whine threads attest.as for the 0.0 fix it's comming. if nano would be overpowered when they implement the changes i've been hearing about then it has to be balanced first. after nano is fixed we'll have a little while of static 0.0 time while people retool for what's comming. then we'll see the change to sov and hopefully it'll favor small gangs.blobing will always be common. combat in all it's forms favors having more people on your team than the other guy has.  unless they can't work togeather  this is a good thing since the only other option is to allow certain individuals to be catastrophocily more powerful than a group of people arayed against them. caps and titans are as close to that as we should ever dare to get.about the 5 hours thing. you tinfoil hatters are acting like these changes will be going live tomorrow. they took five hours to outline what overall goals should be for the change. they included in there goals that hit and run attacks must remain viable.none of those goals are bad for the game. none of them. note missle intercept is not the same as \"missles should always do full dammage to everything\" speed will still shelter you from their dammage, just not all of it. similarly you may get run down by drones so fit a secondary tank or some ewar.there will be an entire month on the test server while they work these changes out. if you are that worried about your precious fotm ships get on the test server and proove to them that these changes will be unbalanced. until you see how they work calm down a bit and realize that everything changes in eve sooner or later and this time arround it's nano. believe me nano has had it comming just like all the previous nerf bat buddies did. or do you honestly thing we'd be better off when everyone and their mother had ecm and nos?-galan"
"i agree with jade, i play this game solely for the small roving gang and any changes that negatively effect the ability of small gangs to roam i would be against. i actually don't care if they nerfed speed in half if they were able to do it while still keeping small roaming gangs viable. however, what i saw in the blob . . .i mean blog was just more nerfs to help the big alliances out. flying in a fat tanked up ship in a large gang is easy. flying a fast ship where you are constantly changing speeds, constantly looking at the distance of everything around you, and constantly guaging what your opponent has equipped so you stay at the closest range without being killed is far from easy. and with recons, eas, 30km scram inties, nerfed nanofibers  speed bonus removed , 24km neuts, and heat it is even harder these days for small roaming gangs to survive."
"i fly caldari recons and hacs in roving gangs just fine, none of them are nano.yes, nano ships are good counters to blobs, but they're also good counters against small gangs, solo players, and just about anything else. even if it finds a situation it cant win, they can usually, barring luck, escape."
"nerf nanoes.i guess nano pilots will just have to \"adapt\" like they have told everyone else too."
"i already posted in the other thread, but i'm poastin ovah nyah as well."
"the op in this thread is right on. speed does need to be tweeked  down . the edge needs to be taken off the ships that actually break the physics engine in game. but, to do that, you don't have to nuke-nerf the entire game populace.like many other have posted, this is the time for the csm to prove their worth. are you guys effective, or just ccp window dressing? let see you prove its the former. i personally am hoping for you, but fearing the worst.specific issues raised by the op:webs changed to 50-60% effectivnesscomment: this is just plain idiocy at its max. you want to address speed so you kill webbers?!?! come on, where is your brain ccp???short range scramblers deactivate mwdscomment: good idea, but pointless. how many nano boats get that close anyway? they will just stand off above 10k-15k and laugh at this new \"ability.\"reactivation time delays on mwds  similiar to cloaks comment: best idea  mentioned by the dev  to take care of a large portion of this problem, if implemented correctly.polycarbons nerfed to be worse than nanofiberscomment: typical ccp overreaction. they give us new toys  rigs , don't think their implementation through in the firstplace, and then take the nerf-bat to them when people figure out a cool way to use them.x-instinct boosters will reduce sig radius not increase speedcomment: near pointless. combat boosters aren't nearly as commonly used or as available as ccp seems to want to think they are.overdrive effectiveness pretty much halvedcomment: worst idea of them all. are you insane ccp? are you trying to break the game?!? overdrives are used by everyone, not just the speed freaks.snakes nerfedcomment: this prolly needs to be done in the first place. or at the very least there needs to be other elite implant sets that stack as well as the snakes do to increase another  any  aspect of a ships stats. say a direct counter to them, one that stacks as well and increases the ability to warp scramble or web. the shear fact that anyone is confident enough to wear something as expensive as a snake set into combat is a sure sign that they give an unfair advantage.gangbonuses to speed reduced, but increase to agility addedcomment: this is the second to the worst idea on the list. this strikes at the very core of eve. you can't set up a skill that works one way, have your players spend weeks/months training for it, then change it when you decide you don't like it. do you want to loose accounts ccp? if so, this idea is the best an quickest way to do it.if you want to add another skill that adds agility to gang bonuses, great! but, don't change the base stat of a skill simply because you are trying to kill the advantage some extreme ship setups have. messing with what skills do should be your absoulte last resort before you close the game servers for good.thanks to the op for putting some reasonable discussion into a topic that is rapidly spiraling out of control.cheers."
"not caring what the polls say, still going to test and deal with whether the changes go live or not. but, despite my belief that having these polls is meant less for getting an accurate account of player intentions  still many in game who will never see the forums , i have noticed a fundamental flaw in the 'vote' system.i've vote in both the 'nerf polls' with multiple characters, mains and alts, from multiple accounts. i didn't vote evenly, nor do all my alts use my 'ruze' moniker.while your having these polls, please be aware that they are fundamentally flawed, and should, on a basic level, have little impact on the developers decisions.as i said in one sarcastic remark, when a group of players posting on the forums use threats, intimidation, name-calling, vetos and 'polls', and they succeed in these tactics, what does that say about the developers? what is to stop special interest groups from continuing to do this?i do hope the developers continue to approach this and all subjects with open minds, taking in all players opinions. each argument has weight and is right, in it's own way. i think the ccp guys are some of the best game designers in the biz, just by looking at the product. but game design should be left up to the company and the professionals, not the opinions of uneducated players.at least, beyond our defining choice of paying for the game dictate ;?j"
"oh no, the majority voted against what you wanted and so the polls are wrong!"
"neither are 100 im leaving the gamemor tears tee heethreads on the general forums.yes some people will bork the votes with alts or whatever float their boat  im naughty tee hee i voted in both tee hee etc  but the majority wont.and the vote system in the assembly is the mehtod used to indicate to the csm what, and how strongly, players think about certain issues.the vote against the upcoming nerf is already higher then any other issue, and this is a shining opportunity for the csm to prove their worth to the sceptics  myself included.skunk"
"also, many folks who like the nerf will not bother to come to say something. they already are getting something they want. example, when is the last time you saw a protester in you nations capital with signs saying \"we are totally content!!\"which was why anti-nano threads were everywhere before, and now all you see is pro-nano. its just how lobbying works."
"that is pretty much it. by the way, the admins of the csm have ability to see exactly how many individual accounts voted, so even if we voted with all of our alts, it will be 1 account/1 vote deal. so relax.here:"
"hey, i'm just saying the vote is borked. if the game changes, i change. if not, i'm definitely going to get myself a nano ship, and see if i got the 'skillz' to pilot it.we all assume. you assume that because i'm against this whole voting thing, that i'm for the nerf. bad idea. i'm actually for fast ships maintaining the ability to avoid certain damage types and keeping effective 'speed tanks', especially for ships designed for it, like the vaga.but my little tirades in the voting channels and here? they apply just as much to the massive number of complaints i just researched calling for a nano nerf, as they do for the barrage ccp has got in the last two days or so after they described the changes they are thinking of making.using forum politics, alt postings, and all the mean things i listed above, should not, and i will repeat, never - not - and in no way, be an effective way of convincing developers to change or not to change."
"nano thing is a contentious issue, as such, no one is \"content\" until actual \"balancing\" takes place. in my opinion at the moment, it is imperative for all those who want the nerf and those who do not, get behind those threads. so, yea, even those who are \"content\" with the nerf should come out and show their support for it. because i certainly hate it with the passion the way it is now, and i think it needs to be re-thought, and re-balanced, it is too harsh at the moment. anyway, most people know how i feel from my posts, i am sure."
"i was not saying those supporting the nerf should not come out, i'm saying that most will not. simple psychology. yes it has an impact, but lost who just feel, \"yeah, those nanos had it coming\" will feel less need to come and post.edit: emphasis for clarity."
"ok, i understand where you coming from, and surprizingly   i assumed you were for the nerf  i also agree with this: \"i'm actually for fast ships maintaining the ability to avoid certain damage types and keeping effective 'speed tanks', especially for ships designed for it, like the vaga.\" and this: \"using forum politics, alt postings, and all the mean things i listed above, should not, and i will repeat, never - not - and in no way, be an effective way of convincing developers to change or not to change\"problem is, what do we have? other then voice our concern for the heavy handedness of the proposed changes? they need to be looked at more, and refined, not just lump everything together. so, here, you see, i would not argue against common sense. just argue against an overwhelming uniformity of nerfing implants, for which i worked really hard, together with mwd down to 500% all? that type of stuff."
"i agree with your reasoning, isis. an 'accurate' vote would be done in-game, per account. you'd still have players with multiple accounts getting votes, but it would popup right when you log in, so all players would be forced to answer, yea, nay, or don't care.all kinds of phsychological reasonings could come into play here. my big 'gripe' is the attempt at using democracy to force developers to do what we want them to do, no matter what the argument or who's side it is.if i stop liking the way the game is, my only choice is very simple: if i continue to pay, i inevitably approve of the game; if i stop paying, i don't.that's consumerism, boys and girls. mmo's are an industry, and a highly technical one at that. i'm thankful ccp lets us offer opinions on these boards, but i'll cry armageddon whenever one side or another states that their opinions are 'majority'."
"since when is the assembly hall for voting? this forum is for bringing up potential issues to ccp. ccp wants to change speed so they are doing it.if you want to bring up an issue, fine then do it. 'don't nerf me' is not an issue and a vote thread is not an issue. both voting threads need to be moved to general discussion or ships&modules.voting threads on the forums are massive amounts of fail."
"and as another note, i think ccp will listen to most players, but only after the changes have been on sisi for a bit and if most players who have tried the testing still don't like them. if i were ccp i would ignore the most of the \"/signed, no moar nurfz\" crowd, which seems to be a lot of folks. without, any actual reasoning i'd personally throw out all those votes. also recall the carrier nerf. the actual nerf was way different from proposed one. my point is that whatever side you fall on, please take the time to post reasoning for your like/dislike of said nerf, not just \"you no want small gang? please no nerf\" or \"nerf teh ****az!\"just for ref: i am rather excited to try out the changes, on sisi. i think they could bring a neat dynamic between all the speed mods. ofc, i'm not a 0.0 guy, so most of the fights i'm in don't involve bubbles, and i'm wanting to see how those are affected before i lay down total support."
"i am going to get flamed for this, but i think the op is absolutely right  about the single point about the votes being weighted \"unfairly\" . and, i don't see anything wrong with the situation.the poll votes are weighted towards the people with the most accounts, not alts. ccp can quite easily see through alts. if they pay attention to anything  which i doubt  they pay attention to accounts, not alts. the people who run more accounts, and thereby put more money  and/or effort if you pay for your accounts by buying gtc with isk  into the game, have a bigger say in the votes in the end.as far as i see it, this is as it should be.the op is also making the fatal assumption that ccp actually listens to or cares about what the majority  who speak up  want.my two isk./flame suit on"
"one account, one votethis was the main reason for why i created this topic a couple of months ago. yes, the csm can easily see how many accounts voted for a given topic, however we, as players can't. as a result any decent points in either one of those threads are getting lost in a wall of alt spam support votes as people are under the belief that the csm works off the total number of thumbs, not the total number of accounts supporting. cutting it back to one account, one voice/vote would help to alleviate some of this noise thus allowing the decent arguements both for and against to come forward.for the record, i'm for general rebalancing but not to the degree that ships that were actually designed for speed  frigates/interceptors  for their survivability can't go fast to a reasonable degree. reasonable in this context meaning they should be hittable by weapons  light precision missiles for example  and ships  other frigates/interceptors  designed to deal with fast ships."
"if ccp is going to act based on player votes then i suggest they reach every player in game by posting a message on the log-in screen. it wouldn't be fair that us 'forum *****s' get to decide the direction of the game when the majority of players don't even read the forums."
"from other thread:"
"i dont see how this is unfair.....people can do exactly the same in the other post for the nano nerf"
"same as it's not unfair if one presidential candidate rigs the election so that he gets to become president. the other candidate could have done the same thing, right?the whole idea of players pushing developers around, it destroys the reason for stuff like the csms. when a csm's starts pushing veto's, votes and make large disclaimers about 'getting player approval', even before a change goes into testing? this kind of goes into showing that the csm's think they can decide for the devs.maybe i'm wrong. i probably am. but the idea of csm's seems great to me. but these guys need to keep an even keel, and not get involved in biased forum politics like this, especially before a change can even be tested. seriously. that's bad judgement."
"by the way, if these votes and veto topics are not being pushed by our great csm community as a means to intimidate our developers into making a change or decision, then those topics ... and this one, i might add ... should be removed from this forum by a moderator."
"the polls are inaccurate more because of simple voluntary response bias than people supporting with alts. people are more likely to take the time to vote in a poll if it's an issue they feel strongly about, hence, since people who fly nanoships have the most to lose, they will be more motivated to voice their objection than people who are more ambivalent but still support the changes. thus, voluntary response polls will almost never give a realistic depiction of the community's attitudes.[emot-statistics101.jpg]p.s. this thread would be better in the jita park speakers corner"
"says the csm member who got into the csm by virtue of his own disreputable gang of self-admitted griefers who \"want to ruin eve\" for the rest of us. you know as well as most people that if your little goon lackeys did not vote for you, you would not have a free plane ticket to island. i do not trust you, i do not trust goons, and i do not trust your scamming alliance as a whole. so, go ahead... lend your voice to the cause, if anything goons would only lend disrepute, and tarnish such cause by their presence."
"i'm just arguing that there should be no 'cause', because players are not the people who should be making these decisions. reputations aside, players offer suggestions, not make decisions. or try to force someone to make decisions."
"wow, are you rp'ing or are you being for real?"
"i am being serious. i do not consider his place on the csm as justly deserved, or won by popular acclaim. i see it as theft, as such, whatever he proposes needs to be viewed with suspicion, since goons have said it before that one of their goals is to ruin eve experience for the pubies. combine that with the blatant scamming that goonswarm leadership, and he is the goon leadership, condones and encourages, we have a clear picture of where this person is coming from, or what his inclinations in game might be. so, no, sorry, i am not rp'ing. i am expressing an outrage. a thief cannot be trusted. he is the 'king' of thieves and scammers, as such, he can not be trusted."
"quit gettin' mad at video games."
"i would love to be able to see a log of timestamps, ips, etc."
"ccp has done a great gob with this game however i feel they enjoy adding new features too much. there are many complaints about the game mechanics that are being ignored and others that get left in the past when a new feature to complain about.while adding new features is an important part of keeping any game interesting i believe ccp is placing too much emphasis on them. i do not know much about software design however i do know that continuing to add new features to an unbalanced system only creates more imbalance. ccp needs to focuse on simplifying and streamlining their code, balanceing combat mechanichs, industry, and 0.0 sovernty.while i understand that the game cannot make everyone happy it should at least be balanced in a way that is logical and efficient."
"i do know gunnery, what w/ my pvp char being minmatar and all, however shows your ignorance when talking about non-gunnery. but since you had to open your mouth lets compare support skills toogunnery:gunnery- rate of firesurgical strike- damagemotion prediction- tracking speedcontrolled bursts- cap needrapid firing- rate of firesharp shooter- rangetrajectory analysis- falloffso that's 1 skill to affect chance to hit, 2 for rate of fire, 1 for damage, 2 for range, and 1 for cap need.missles:guided missile precision- decrease sig factormissile bombardment- flight timemissile projection- missile speedrapid launch- rate of firetarget nav prediction- targets speed factorwarhead upgrades- damagelauncher operation- rate of fireso that's 2 that reduce the penalties applied to missile damage because of target speed and size, 2 for range, 2 for rof, and 1 for damage.so, for a rank 2 skill you get at most 25% bonus to tracking. and for missiles you have a rank 2 skill for explosion velocity  to offset targets speed and a rank 5 skill that only works on some missiles to offset the target size. stop your forum whineing and get over it, gunnery and missiles are balanced, if you dont like it why dont you train up missiles and see just how long it takes to get decent pvp damage with them scrub"
"as someone who started as a missile user and transitioned to gunnery, do not support.missiles offer faster training to whatever one you need, and less sp overall, but, in return it's significantly harder to crosstrain with them and they are just not quite as good as turrets once maxed out, even if its easier to get there.turrets had the edge before the speed nerf; now that there will be less ships the missiles can't catch, they will be roughly balanced, with the very thing that you are complaining about being one of the benefits for missiles that makes them balanced."
"supporting caldari nerf"
"qft. the op is clueless. do not support."
"um what? check again?"
"signed"
"and that! right there is pure qft! seems you do need other missile skills, and support to use missiles. to be specific, you need skills to use guns, not ammo. and you don't need anything too specific to use launchers, but you do need an equal-to-guns skill tree to use missiles. even the standard ones. so, in order to use cruise missiles i have to train light, and heavy missiles. but after those requirements we're left with the same 2-way training as guns. either to spec in light, heavy, cruie, or torpedoes versus your puls/beam, blaster/rail, arty/auto spec, orwe're left with only limited size to shoot out, and, thus, limited size to shoot at.as a t2 blaster/rail, and various missile user i can't support this. i had to train more to shoot 3 sizes of t2 missiles, than for guns."
"this has been asked for so many times, would be nice if they looked into it, or at least told us why not"
"this might also be a very interesting use for the 'tactical map' supposedly being made for ambulation. being able to sit down and show a simplified version of a battle, going over mistakes and such?but, as some have said, fraps is currently doing that now."
"yeah something like half life tv  hltv  which recorded every detail of a match. you could switch between the viewpoint of any of the people playing or roam freely not attached to any player.now that would be cool and since it was happening years ago why not?"
"i've fought even responding to this inane thread so as to not lend it any sort of credibility, but i simply can't let an idiotic post like this go unchallenged.a. missiles have flight time. turrets do not.b. turrets have tracking computers and tracking enhancers to improve performance. missiles have no such modules.your ideas  and agreeing with your own posts with an alt  do not a sound argument make."
"this. if missiles are so overpowered, then why don't we see them everywhere?"
"signed"
"not to mention you can outrun damage even after a missile strikes. missiles have trouble with distance. low traversal, high speed targets are almost immune, and nanos are completely immune."
"fail after narf."
"heavy missiles heave 80km optimal. no turret have optimal like that. cruise misiels got 240km again no turet can reach optimal like that+if anyway will they will ahve crap tank+dps. only drawback is that they need to fly to target."
"/thread"
"support space whales"
"hurray for gallentean civil rights! jade is a boon to democracy and should be recognized as an avatar of personal and political freedoms that we gallenteans hold so dear."
"z"
"space circus for the win. i wholeheartedly support carnies and the entertainment they provide.tbh you have to give jade's rl avatar guy a break. he does stupid **** on the internet for entertainment, and then has the bad fortune to be required to tie his rl existence to his avatar through the csm nomination process. would you not lie like hell about some stupid **** like that? eve is a game. real life is real life. i bet the guy has a job and has every reason to not stand behind any of the stupid crap he does and should fully be expected to claim it's all a huge goon smear campaign.anyone who thinks this behavior should be condemned because it's dishonest is ignoring the guy's right to not tie his eve ridiculousness to his rl.space hookers and space whale watchers unite!"
"and i don't want non-rpers to represent us, because this is a role-playing game, but hey.but if this topic is actually serious -- i can't quite make up my mind -- what does it matter? what someone does on their own time in their personal lives just doesn't seem very relevent to one's professional/political/public life.in other words -- so what?"
"well, suck for you then that democracy means you personaly don't get the final say.or are you anti-democracy too?what is it that you have in your closet that you are too afraid to face?i mean, that's what this is all about, isn't it?your repressed feelings?come on, tell us. share with us. it will help you."
"this whole thread is awesome... it's like a presidential smear campaign.\"bob dole eats babies. do you want your next president to be a baby eater?\"\"jade constantine likes to roleplay. do you want your pvp and gankfest, bloodbath mockery of an mmo... tainted with a roleplayer? vote no to eve storyline, and vote yes for more ways to screw each other over while paying $15/month.\"this thread is full of fail."
"this is fracking hilarious. i mean, eve is a general microcosm of real life, a prime example of the inherited cruelty and selfishness that is prevalent in every humans nature, where goodness and sensibilities are the exception, not the rule. but this?this is a perfect example of a smear campaign. since we have nothing to blast the candidate for, lets attack his wife! and his preacher! or the guys military record, because obviously, if he was in the military, he will be a war monger!obviously, since this guy had fun roleplaying as a female in a brothel, he's got to be some sick, twisted individual.along those same lines of logic, anyone who's gotten a thrill for killing another player in game, that perfect trap or trick? you should probably see a psychologist, because deep down, your the kind of person who ****s dogs and kicks women, a pillager and plundering psychopath.i don't know jade, and i need to figure out what his apparent bad comments have been. but if i was asked to vote today, i'd vote for him, and wouldn't vote for goonswarm. and i'm not your typical 'goonswarm' hater. i don't know them. but their forum representatives are simply awful!hahahahaha!!!"
"my wife laughs at this whole thread!"
"only if you barred all the goons from ever being on the csm for their blatant racism and scamming ways."
"scamming is not prohibited in eve. nor is racism, as long as i'm roleplaying, you minmatar #!&&@%$"
"it is an issue and a discussion of that issue. the csm can take their concerns and the concerns amply displayed on these forums to ccp.and i'm sure ccp is looking at the reaction on these forums. personally, i've never seen such a fast and furious one and i believe that has to say something to ccp. i think you know that and you'd like to stifle the reaction.windjammer"
"i couldn't agree more, jade. i'd be extremely unhappy with the csm if they didn't consider this a csm issue.windjammer"
"jade although i agree on the importance of making changes to 0.0 territory warfare, i don't think it is worth opposing the dev blog speed changes on the grounds that they are happening out of order. while i'd support the csm highlighting concerns about some problems these changes would raise  like blaster ships for instance  i don't think it's wise to reject them out of hand without offering a counter proposal to how combat ought to look in regards to speed.ccp has pointed out real problems with speed and combat that currently exist  the ability to outrun drones and missiles first and foremost  and those problems must be solved. whatever the csm's reaction to this, it must not outright reject these changes because they address real problems."
"hey, i'm all for csm discussing the proposal that ccp gave us. hence why i asked you to raise it for the next csm meeting, as per my email.but seriously. we are getting spammed with this topic and the thing hasn't even hit sisi yet. i"
"it is called multi-tasking jade. you should look it up sometime."
"the thought of ever having to remote hull rep/pay for repairs to my freighter after a narrow escape makes shutter/signed"
"maybe an ore hull repair ship?"
"eve is a game; it is played for entertainment.it should thus have a design goal that each type of activity should be fun.poses are not currently fun to put up  huge time sink waiting 5/10/15 min per module . they are not fun to fuel  it needs doing regularly, and one cant automatically or remotely transfer fuel from the corporate hanger arrays to the control tower .and they are not fun to blow up  big time sink, lots of hitpoints, very little in the way of tactical or strategic decisions while attacking them, in the absense of a defence fleet .thus, they need some serious work by ccp to make them more fun to use.ps posting this while waiting for modules to come online after forgetting to fuel my pos by about 12 hours."
"look, this thread, it is like 5 threads bellow yours... and has like a tone of people in it and stuff... so look: pos dead horse - go support it!"
"from the last few replies i've gotten, they switched from saying \"unverified lag\" to \"you knew it was going to be laggy when you warped in, you get to deal with the loss\""
"the problem with reimbursing for lag is that it depends on customers being 100% trustworthy.they aren't.it isn't about the customer always being right, because if you allow those customers to abuse the system the \"fair\" players are effectively penalised.if there is no server-side proof of ccp being at fault, then there should be no reimbursement.to be honest, there shouldn't even be a ship reimbursement category for petitions. it should only be considered if part of a full and detailed bug report.yes i have lost lots of ships to lag, and no, i don't petition them."
"1.0"
"what about stargates dropping you at semi random points in the target system.would eliminate gate camps completely."
"elaborate, please. like how after jumping you are somewhere 12km off the gate?"
"yes, let's put people at random locations in the solarsystem.\"guys, guys, i'm being shot at by a deathstar\"\"how???!!!???  lol, that guy = fail \"\"system placed me here\"\"ah yes, hacate his change got trough\"=> no thank you"
"oh i see what you mean, but it doesn't work within the storyline of eve. stargates are basically linked perma-running cyno-fields, with definite in-out points  see the fictional science section released by ccp .and gate camps are fun don't nerf them."
"what wrong with gate camps?- gob"
"please explain it to me oh great guru...last time i checked, defenders automatically target, chase and, hopefully, destroy an incoming missile. if someone tosses 6 cruises or torps out and you launch 4 defenders, you have a chance of reducing the incoming damage by 2/3  not likely, but a chance . with the rof of rocket launchers, you have the possibility of getting enough defenders out there to hopefully destroy all the opposing missiles. also, defenders seek out any hostile missile. you do not have to be the target. biggest thing is, you have to wait until the bad guys launch before you can activate the defender launchers.i've flown missile defense in a kestrel with 4 rocket launchers. sometimes it works, some times it doesn't. if there were no missile boats in an engagement, i'd just switch to normal rockets and provide what puny dps i could.defenders are not perfect. they're too slow to be of any real use. you cannot set them to auto fire. but they do work.. sometimes."
"simple, they block only missiles fired at you.edit: i stand corrected. someway around the way they have been changed, without any note and now they can intercept missiles targeted against others.so my apologies."
"nice idea, would probably make more people use missile ships in fleets or at least get some kills if they already are"
"and you think having to use more slots to do what you do with 1 slot is an advantage of guns??"
"would also neatly decrease the problem that some caldari pilots seem to have in working out how to hurt nanoships i like this idea."
"to the op... you are a fool. think about the effect that missiles that go twice as fast will have on pvp - no longer will damage be mitigated by the speed of the target, since the missiles will be going so quick, that not even inties will be able to escape! let me guess - you fly a drake/raven, and never do anything other than lvl4 missions in a 0.5 systems somewhere. couple your ridiculous suggestion with the speed nerf, and small scale pvp will die. once ppl accept that to be viable in fleet pvp they will have to train turrets, and accept that a valid pve fit will not work for pvp, the happier eve will be!"
"i believe the topic was raised before the proposed speed nano changes were brought up, at least i voted before i saw the dev blog.since when was eve supposed to offer any way for someone to be immune to being damagedanyway, with the proposed changes to speed/nano i suggest that this topic should be held in abeyance until after change testing"
"does anyone actually ever use defenders? i mean apart fom lol-fit small ac active hull-tank raven pilots?"
"cruise missiles already do over 10km/s on unrigged ravens. yet inties are not in danger from them."
"wow.that's a lot of hate from people who have decided that missiles simply most not be an option in pvp.i use them already anyways and never get kills. still happy. still having fun. and losing a lot of ships, but hey, so what.as it is now, missiles can only be used to secondary small-ish support ships, so i think this is actually a good idea.and i hate you severely for getting it before me. /signed"
"for destructible, mobile outposts. solves a lot of problems that each one would bring by itself."
"signed."
"this is one bug thats really driving me nuts"
"why is it this nitwit makes anti-caldari posts and then supports them with his alt?check out all his other posts and early supporters."
"kalintos, please stop posting, you are terrible at it. i recognize you fly minmatar and are bitter about the speed nerf, but thats no reason to lift your bowels on high and **** on the forum."
"sorry but i use torps and typhoon and they are much too powerfull vs guns."
"im not an alt silly."
"do you think you could give me the link to were i can dw that software please?"
"err, like they used to be before the torp nerf / buff you mean ?"
"terrible idea, not supported."
"....welp?"
"hek-audaerne highsec route."
"can you list the systems in your route? i'm pretty sure i've run that route and there's a lot of 0.4 and 0.3 systems.  i call lowsec gankspace as it's often more dangerous than 0.0 as 0.0 can be carebear if you have good relations with the people who hold sov - lowsec, nobody really holds and it's true gankspace. "
"so speaks brilliance.when the agents were chosen fw was not even a glimmer in ccp's loins. the placement of many minmatar & gallente research agents was placed at the creation of the game, again long before fw ever came about despite the ideal that it would one day be implemented.thus people who have put resources and effort into establishing their research agents. and in a purely game standpoint it is now more illogical than ever that empires at war would have any of their assets, much less science, in enemy space."
"\"to make matters worse, eccm is virtually useless as a counter.\" you are just wrong.more generally:ecm is an interesting case because while it is overpowered, it's balanced by this:a  ecm is chanced based: 100% work or 100% failureb  ecm boats are fragilec  you are primary.outside of the small gang setting, you fly ecm, you die. in the small gang setting, when everyone dies except one or two ships, those one or two are usually cheap tacklers or the ecm ships. i fly both ecm and non-ecm ships -- the ecm ones die a lot more.these dynamics cause ecm to be fine as it is. the falcon, in particular, might need some toning down because the cloaking+range allows it to have the power of ecm without the whole constantly dying thing. it's easy to counter  sniper+eccm = boom , but, still may need some weakening.another thing to consider is the speed nerf. once that goes into effect, the falcon  along with ecm as a whole  may be weaker. the three prevalent organized gangtypes  not the only ones, but the most common/generic  are sniper, nano, and rr. sniper rips apart ecm, and i've heard  but not sure, havent flown in an organized rr gange personally  rr often fit eccm because of how important it is for them to not get jammed. so with the nerfing down of the most vulnerable ecm target, the falcon might be brought down to earth by the changing environment of other ships around it."
"this is a very silly analysis, your using a falcon!! its a specialty jamming ship. its supposed to be good! and falcons are paper thin, you only need to get a few good hits on it and he'll run off. plus look at ecm with respect to other ew such as tracking disruptors. you don't even need to fit special racial td and you can render any turret ship useless. 1 eccm should not be able to render the falcon utterly useless either, you should compair at least an equal number of ecms to eccms to get a really fair compaison. otherwise your just saying that one module should render the entire line of ecm specialty ships useless.also i think there is something horibly wrong with your numbers. i only read a falcon as being jammed 30% of the time with 2 racial ecm and one eccm. and a hurricane only has a 50% chance with 2 racial jams and one eccm."
"by your convoluted logic of \"its supposed to be good\" i'm going to assume you dont want your only useful caldari ship to be nerfed. but hey, it's ok if they nerf nano's and everything else that promoted guerilla warfare. as long as you can keep your perma jams, right?"
"you want to talk convoluted logic? ecm is balanced. it is only very powerful when used by a falcon. a falcon has no tank at all so if you bring it to action it will die. yet you don't want to balance the falcon you want what's left of ecm's balls smashed, ground into a powder and smoked in your personal hooka.ecm is fine, the falcon may be slightly overpowered but it is soo amazingly fragile that it's not that big a deal.as a quick bit of advice, when you are running a roaming gang, have one of your guys fit a scan probe. when you get into a fight with a falcon he probes it warps to it and wtfpwns it with ramming and drones. when he's not wtfpwning falcons he can be your logistics guy. or a scout, or some drone dps.. hell there are all kinds of uses for a goof drone boat.ecm is fine.-galan"
"i have to join this debate, i have tried specing a prophecy with racial eccm's 2x at least and 1 0r 2 c racial backup arrays in the low slots + the apropriate rigs...permi jammed on the 1st try, same with a scorpion fitted to jam falcons no dice. so far every attempt at a eletronics solution to the falcon has been a failure and i get to test daily just about. so far the only solution has been to chase them of with intys or somone gets lucky and blows one up but then gets permi jammed by others , and these hac fleets iv been fighting arnt useing just 2 or 3 more like 5-6 and have proven able time and again to jam fleets to death. so yes their is something wrong and unbalenced with the equation, basicly i feel that the chance based total delocking jamming effect is the heart of the problem. jamming is supposed to make weapons miss target or be less effective ,in practice it totally wipes your target lock and prevents relocking and is so effective we call it permi jammingperhaps the entire ecm/eccm/td/sens damp mods suite needs to be looked at as the td module preforms a lot of the functions of what the ecm unit should be doing in practice along with remote sense damps that effect should be also part of the ecm's module's range of effects, currently sensor boosters, sig amps ,back up arrays,and eccm provide aparently zip effect against permi jamming inculding rigged anti ecm ships specifcly fitted to resist being jammed, i dont propose to nerf the falcon though the way its special ablity works should not be so overpowering. though one of my primary wishes would be for the falcon to not be a cloaker ...dodges the bottles and cans of outraged pilots... i dont have a concrete idea for a fix of the issue however i do believe chance based ecm-no target lock is the heart of the imbalence/overpowerness.perhaps we could get some dev comment on this issue seer"
"alright, another ecm pilot speaking up here.some quick fallacies with thinking ecms are overpowered.1. ecm ships are paper thin. tank? what tank? this means...-- if you have less than perfect skills and can't jam as efficiently, you are going down.-- if the enemy simply outnumbers you, you are going down  primary . most ecm pilots are forced to flee as soon as someone locks without getting jammed.-- racial jammers are a poor standard at best. they are very situational and only work reliably against their targeted race. -- eccm are effective. even if you do get jammed, i can tell you that you have more jammers pointed at you, meaning less at your buddies.-- fof anyone? with no tank, those missiles hurt like a *****.-- drones right? again, these hurt like a *****.notice anything here? unlike nanos, ecm doesn't take a large skill investment to counter. do not need to train a sepcialised ship just to kill them, just tactics, and weapons available to virtually all pilots. how many pvp pilots honestly can't fit an eccm or use drones at all?ecm is just another one of the pieces to the pvp chess board. it's been balanced plenty before. it's only coming back to the stage in force as a mitigation to the damage nanos do. i know it's the main reason my fcs ask me to bring my falcon over my cerberus.so, for something that isn't survivable, takes little skill or sp to counter, is chanced base, and made a primary target without fail, it seems to have found a pretty good balance. good job ccp, now let's move along to other matters."
"leave ecm as is and boost eccm, this has my full support."
"again,ecm is fine. eccm is fine. the falcon is fine you are just using the wrong counters. or getting blobed in which case you were dead either way but it's less fun to die to ecm.-galan"
"wasn't exactly the same argument used by nanoship pilots?"
"i agree there. i just came back from a year away from eve because my credit card will not work with eve  paypal . they say \"we don't know why\" and a bunch of silly robot comments.30 day time cards was what got me back into this game. was thinking of opening a 2nd accout again...no way not now.as it stands once my sub runs out all will be dark and there is no way i can come back unless they bring back the 30 day tc or fix my cc problems.good luck whith your premium product ccp"
"the lack of thirties isn't such a big deal because they encourage farming:use a thirty, do the training, set a reaaally long skill, repeat. or farming datacores. these are things that do not benefit the game and do not benefit ccp.it's the higher prices  in isk terms  per day  compare new 60 to old 90, or even old 30  that will result in the cancellation of long-term, consistently  each month  paid alt accounts.best and least painful thing ccp could do is sell 60 day gtc's directly to players through ccp's official website at the cost resellers pay now. no financial loss for ccp, pure gain from players, and the resellers are just leaches off ccp and their customers anyway.edit: the timecard change is a real concern for much of the subscriber base, and the csm is supposed to be a go-between and mouthpiece between ccp and that base. if the csm is limited to topics that ccp wants discussed, disregarding what matters to players, that completely delegitimizes it, but i'm a democracy loving american so i may be slightly biased."
"you can still buy 30-day increments:1  start subscribing at one month intervals2  ccp gets money from first month3  suspend account4  play for 30 days"
"i apologize for being unclear. my intent was to specify that altering titans would be fixing numerous balance issues on a large scale. exploration ships would have no more impact than any other buff/nerf  a good idea but without nearly the same sweeping change .i really was trying to be constructive, sorry if it clicked something off in your head. bane glorious made a great post today clarifying his position on mobile stations.also, define nonalliance content. is it something alliances cannot do? i'm in an alliance, am i blocked from this content? i think that this term is inherently an oxymoron."
"even as a explorer i can see the argument against a \"all in one\" type ship. but our only choice now is lucky to last 1-2 hits by low lev pirates. i at least would like to see a exploration ship with maybe still the one high slot, but with some added mid and low slots and some more cargo area. no offensive capability at all like we have now, but you can take more than one shot from the npc's without going down. something where you could at least jump into a area and last long enough to open a can or something without loosing your ship in 2 shots."
"maybe something out of the mining frigates? instead of covops cloaking bonuses, make them flying astrometrics bricks."
"what might be offensive somewhere, it might be considered normal somewhere else.i dislike behaviour limits.also, limiting 'bigots' view's makes you a bigot  by definion of dictionary.com "
"skillpoints dont dictate anything exept the most perfect situation. competeing with older players is all in the mind, a 3 year old player could be a complete idiot. it is just how you deal with it is what counts, and after a few months in the game you will have enough skillpoints to start leveling the playing field in that regard."
"move to 0.0 where you can shoot anyone who tries to loot your wrecks."
"agreed, there are a metric shed load of roid fields about, just by using the in game filters you can find them via the players in solar system. you can also get some nice quiet spots in low sec, just take the time, be willing to haul arse and find them."
"well, at least there will be a week to test the speed changes before you try to convince to devs to not test things on the test server.hay hay hay! i found the reply you'll get about last weekend's temper tantrum jade."
"damn. i'm leaving for my trip to seattle that day.how come it's on a sunday anyways?"
"hmm i think part of the problem, is lack of feedback from ccp. there are a lot of issues that get raised and discussed in f&i and gd, however, the feedback is, tbh, lacking. so the issues are raised with the csm instead or as well, as at least we get to see some discussion and get some feedback. if ccp want player involvement, feedback from them is key, or we will concentrate on issues we think we can affect a change on, such as ship balancing."
"csms are there to represent players, nothing else. if you don't want to represent players, step down.you were not voted in to be devs, balancers, get trips to iceland, or provide some sort of non-player related grand vision of eve. that's up to the players, not you. your job is to represent us.if we end up wanting you to ask ccp to give us stupid things, that's our mistake not yours. do your job or step down.i didn't vote for a council of elitist idiots who decide via some nebulous 'we don't think that's a great idea... it's not grand enough' process what to bring forth to ccp. that's exactly what you're starting to sound like."
"since the announcement of the speed changes, i was wondering what the csms thoughts were on tracking disruptors. since most ships can out run tracking, even with a 'burner, at close ranges, and tracking disruptors affect tracking even more, what modules, if any are going to be implemented to \"disrupt\" missiles and drones. now that most, not all, ships will not be able to out run missile damage and drones, what midslot module will be added to counter tracking disruptors?why should some ships be able to negate a large amount of damage because of a game mechanic, when other ships cannot? why should drone boats and missile boats do full damage all the time, and turret boats do not? turrets still have to deal with tracking, optimal+falloff and sig radius, where missile and drone boats only deal with max range, and to a smaller degree torps not included  sig radius."
"bump"
"destroyers work fine and i think this was fixed when salvage parts were made smaller so more could fit in cargo  unless you find more than 40000 salvage at once "
"what he said."
"you forget all the other skills needed to make a missile usable. the range, payload, rof. guns do dmg instantly, missiles have to wait. its a fair trade off."
"during the in person meeting ccp actually asked for clarification or further development of ideas from specific suggestions. the wording by jade is that only one discussion per person. so you can have multiple csm's bring it forth. this is a stupid way to try and gain power in the csm, especially since in a 6 month period the gameplay can change. sometimes up to 2 new expansions in six months."
"tl:dr team fortress 2 cap points worked better than battlefield 1942agree with op and support. a common problem i saw arose due to the particular geography of the minmatar/amarr-boundary low-sec systems. the minmatar hed constellation  amamake, dal  is the only constellation bordering amarr low-sec, however oftentimes amarr would go north towards essin, tiat, and eugidi - constellations deep into enemy militia territory.from a meta gaming perspective, this allowed amarr gangs to spread out their targets, but it wouldn't make much in-game sense to allow system occupancy many jumps away from the nearest friendly system  eg. avenod could be contested 9 jumps away from kourmonen . the low-sec regions of space may not have been originally intended for factional warfare, as certain choke points are clearly unbalanced and factions' respective low-sec space isn't nearly tactically symmetrical.to further define the op, only consecutive constellations be contestable, and only consecutive systems be susceptible to capture. a faction would occupy a system by holding the control bunker  as is currently , and would occupy a constellation by occupying say, two-thirds  or some other definable fraction  of it's systems. region occupancy could be determined similarly. such a system would provide proper mechanics to \"lock\" non-consecutive systems and force militias to fight on smaller fronts, as suggested in the op."
"well according to the csm members that commented this issue, it was submitted to ccp to be discussed during the f2f meeting in iceland, but did not show up on the agenda.maybe i am too paranoid :- "
"signed"
"agreed to all points presented by the op."
"yep,capitals may be far the easiest category to compare apples v. apples and minmatar fail here significantly."
"/agreedand the rest of the minnie ships are now being nerfed to bring them alongside the capitals as the worst of all the races..."
"ah cool iw as looking for this post.. nice to see that things are noted.,. any eta on which we can test improvements on the test server ??"
"true. as it is now, there are only a few places where the black op can jump from lowsec and into 0.0. and when you are finally in 0.0 you have burned so much fuel getting there that there`s not much you can use it for. but then again, not a big issue since most of the sytems where targets are hiding are cynojammed fuel bay is the way to go i think...adding a second ship to fix flaws on a current ship is just wrong. why would anyone use normal haulers when all that will be needed are bo and jumphaulers and you can move your stuff without any risk.... already have jumpbridges, carriers, jumpfreighters and so on.also adding such a ship you are opening a whole can of worms. covert jumping in a bunch of haulers with towers. also when ccp had a live devblog there was a ccp dev who was concerned giving black op bigger cargo bay cause it would be exploitet as a covert cargojumper, reason for a seperate fuelbay...and now you suggesting a covert jumphauler? a must:seperate fuelbayjump to covert cynos in cynojammed systemslonger jumprangefix that scan res!!!nice to get:slightly better resists or some more hpcov ops cloak, but then again, that could make it overpowered, and if the tradeoff would be loosing damage then no! already doing small damage."
"i believe adding functionality to the deep space transports is a good idea, as far as my experience goes  1 black ops op  the range isn't really the problem.black ops in the real world represent something equal to the men in black movie, noone knows about it.  excluding aliens etc. making the black ops able to use covert ops cloaking devices can achieve such a status.there has been a post on full overhaul of their bonusses, which i think is partially ok, but if you give black ops such bonusses, whats left for the recons. firepower and limited ew seems like the way to go, tank should be minimal as all recons have it.  compared to capability's of hac/hic keep it up imo, we aren't there yet."
"i support this topic. although i aprove some little changes in nano nerf, this measure looks like too, too, too much more than it's needed."
"nano nerf is absolutely good. i would love if it is even nerfed more.in my opinion, mwd also need some cap usage increase and more cpu use."
"against"
"the dev giveth and the dev taketh .... its easy and planewho said nerff ?? .... i would say balancingi would like to see what will u say if i had 3 differents tracking modules without penalty that make me able to hit any nanoship.go go go, devs, its time to balance the game."
"against"
"i am agenst the nano nerf.... buy doing that you make most mini ships useless....."
"save the nanos!!!!!!!!!"
"signed and ccp, please introduce new content. leave the universe alone!morphing the universe is the stuff of hollywood and time traveler movies  cue claud van-driver .there just is no way to roll this out without breaking people's \"suspension of disbelief\".whats next? removal of an entire classification of ship? concerning any and every nerf past, present and future:i urge you to think about it a bit more and then if you can't dream up a storyline for the nerf, don't do it! surely the scientists and engineers of eve might have put their heads together and produced some new weaponry to thwart the threat? at least its believable and some story driven from its conception!i'm not a role player, but i do appreciate a backstory existing to bolster and flesh out what exists in a universe."
"againstthere are counters to nanos as can be seen on many killboards.current proposed changes will tilt the battle towards a larger group."
"this is crazy. this nerf will hurt the game more then help. alot of minmtar ship will be crap now : "
"i support the changes to polycarbon engine housings to be in-line with other speed rigs, and support in general the lowering of maximum speeds  we don't need a linear speed decrease, just adjust the far edge of the curve down a bit , but the rest of that devblog is pure horse****."
"going fast is just to much fun."
"while i support the spirit behind the proposed changes, i don't support the changes themselves. i'd rather see new items/skills added to provide better counters, rather than cross-the-board ner***e."
"against!"
"against the nanonerf"
"deeply, deeply against. please think about the game before you ruin it for us ccp."
"really? i wonder what you think my four-man nanogang was doing yesterday then?"
"against."
"against"
"full support"
"want more speed hehe"
"against nerf."
"against"
"against."
"against.reiterating a good 'poast' on the topic:i am on the receiving end of  aaa  nano-hacs daily.i have had an invasion of the old tri in my space.observations from me fighting nano gangs:-nobody takes booster pills-claymores are quite rare to see, and tend do die a lot.-hardly anyone uses snakes-there are plenty of ways to kill  part of  a nanogang, without everybody being in a rapier or huginn. they bring a specialized ship to do something, so you have to do something specialized to counter them. nothing wrong with that. no standard gang  some inties, ewar and dps  should be able to counter 95% of enemy gang types. eve should be rock-paper-scissors-i like fighting them. some people have even begun to count their kills in polycarbs/week.i think there is nothing wrong with hacs going 3-5km/s.i think there is nothing wrong with players investing 1bn isk in snakes and going 8km/s.i agree there is something wrong that practically every single hac can go faster than a standard fitted inty.there is nothing wrong with having speeds that makes you more or less immune to missiles and drones. these offensive weapons take minimal player skill to use  hence their popularity for mission runners , while good players can avoid the damage of turrets, simply by manual piloting  and vice versa, a good player in a turret boat can maximize his damage potential . a better solution would be to have significantly reduced damage, but not 0, for hurling missiles and drones at fast targets.i think you should never ever nerf warfare links, as they are really a team-based module, and nerfing decreases the incentive to field one is bad. a good nano gang has a claymore, so they go even faster. so what? kill the claymore first.nerfing all at once is bad  damps anyone? .just start by adjusting the polycarbs to be worse than t2 nanofibers, and modify the 3 \"speed\" stats  mass, max velocity, agility  into 2, so more stacking penalties get applied.making warp scramblers useful is good  maybe do something with warpcore stabs too .changing a web from 90% to 60% is a 400% nerf  max speed of webbed target from 10% to 40% ; nothing in the history of eve has been nerfed so hard.once again, i fear that the devs are listening too much to whines, without seeing the real problem. i think they should have focussed their time solely on their last \"mission statement\":guerrilla warfare must remain a viable combat tactic.please make more ways to make this possible, than simply nano'ing it up.cause:skilled players should be better than defending blob in crap ships.skilled defenders should be able to beat cookie-cutter setups.areo"
"you can still fly fast with the nerf, just not game-breakingly fast."
"against alot!"
"people were actually having fun playing eve online. this was obviously not intended."
"against"
"against."
"this change has absolutly no effect on blaster boats if the ship you are fighting against has a mwd equipped too. here's the breakdown:if you are a blaster boat, you will be webbing your target. if you are within web range then you are withing scram range too. guess what, after the changes, turning off their mwd, and webbing them down 60% will ruduce their speed by i believe 92%... thats slower than you can tackle them now. this change benifits a blaster ship very slightly."
"nanofgts unite!"
"i'm against nano nerf"
"against."
"against"
"against!"
"against"
"against!"
"voting against nano nerf because i think they are not doing it the right way... too much nerfing that isnt needed"
"ding; it needs reexamining."
"against nano nerf"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against!!!"
"the nano nerf is totaly stupid..sign"
"against!"
"against"
"against, with them nerfing everything might as well be called wow instead of eve. 0.o"
"speed balance is needed, but not this nerf."
"supported.nano ships are one of the few fun ways of fighting left in the game"
"."
"against.dont wreck another race."
"against!!!"
"o/"
"no nerf pls"
"voting no on nano nerf!"
"against!"
"against ccp pull your finger out and stop ruining your own fkin game."
"yes i got this dream, lets make it so the game is purly based on numbers. it will be awesome"
"pay attention. this is win."
"/againstmore due to imbalance for minmatar ship and this making the caldari missile spamming ships even more of an easy-button in eve."
"/signed"
"against"
"against!"
"against, this is changing way to many things in one go. ccp obviously havn't learned a damn thing from past patches that they have ****ed up."
"against"
"against"
"definately against"
"awesome. 31 pages of idiots who can't read."
"one cute noobie that thinks ccp will do anything but break things further and remove any semblance of fun from the game."
"small gang warfare must be a viable part of eve or i fear the game as we know it will die. ok something might need to be done about the most extreme speeds but there are really already counters and tactics to meet the more normal nanogangs. in any case, plz ccp be moderate dont do all those changes at once, the chance you break more than you fix is way to high and it usually takes ages to fix the fixes after such huge change. the game is currently probably more well balanced, at least on the none-capital scale, than i ever can remember.concentrate on doing something about how the sov works and have a look at what impact the combination of jumpbridges/cynojammers and titans have on the game - this is probably where we have the biggest problem in the game currently and what forces a more and more blobbing environment."
"...and one idiot, who belive in attentions.this patch is installed on test server now. this means that the patch was probably ready before this attention...this attention is only democracy games..."
"if speed gets nerfed i'm gonna go play wow, cuz of better pvp..."
"totally against"
"wrong wrong wrong"
"why ccp?"
"against........."
"against."
"against"
"i think it's telling how many votes this topic got before the changes even got as far as the test server.it suggests there's a whole lot of people who are prepared to condemn something without any clue whatsoever how it'll bear out. i hope ccp takes this into consideration, when they start looking at voting."
"i totally support this thread."
"perfectly againts"
"just teste on sisi , this patch is shamefull , ccp must hide under a rock imo"
"changes are too big and not needed, i agree some speeds need looking at but this is just stupid, totally against"
"i have tried the test server and i shame on ccp. that game now really sucks.totally against."
"i played on test server and it really sucks. i am now more against than never. i hope ccp will not change anything or lots of $ will fly away ;  for example my 4 accounts."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"well nanos are the last thing that will prevent all of pvp to be blob tactics and small skirmish warfare, and it's one of the few pvp-aspects where it still rquires more than just be able to press f1-f8 so lay off the speed. you will still be screwed if they got neuts or huginn/rapiers and so.and tbh people that are raging against nanogangs are usually new people that cant understand why their precius ratting raven got killed by 2 vagabonds, or other \"pvp'ers\" that only pvp in blops. the proposed speed nerf is removing one of the most challenging way of fighting for me in the game.if anyone is in doubt i'm against the speednerf."
"against"
"some changes are indeed necessary, but as it stands this is far too sweeping. polys were out of line, high grade snakes were out of line, high level meta mwds were out of line, but these are relatively easy changes. not to mention that this change is being proposed after factional warfare has introduced an awful lot of new players to pvp who, instead of understanding and adapting to current mechanics have generated an epic level of forum whining that appears to have given them exactly what they want - devs promising to make it even easier to kill speed-dependent ships.these are not the changes to make, ccp. i vote against."
"againstjust when i get finally skills done they nerf something again : "
"against totaly"
"stupid nerf.against!"
"against"
"against !!!"
"against"
"just couple of questions:first, is anyone going to bother counting how many of these votes of opposition were made before we have even been able to test what exactly the changes are, or should we create a new thread to voice rational objections based on fact instead of speculation?second, do we need seperate discussion for what could be viewed as two different changes.1  there is the nerf to \"ludicrous\" speed done by changing the attributes of nanos/poly's and various high-end modules/implants.2  there is the \"boost\" to afterburners by allowing mwd's to be scrambled, and changing the webber attributes.is there a thread anywhere that allows for rational and reasonable discussion of these needed changes or is only irrational ranting permitted?"
"against"
"totally against"
"against r-r-r-r-r!!!"
"your probably evangelical christian, lack rationality. all your comments are so stupid they don't deserve a counter argument."
"against"
"against!!"
"im vote for the nerf!damn 10k flyers"
"against!!11!"
"ok but if you want to support nerf post it in appropriate thread fs"
"just say no"
"this has to be one of the worst nerf attempts in ccp history....againstif you need balance, fine. balance ships and implants, not mods and skills. hitting the ships and implants will get the worst \"offenders\". mods and skills will hit everyone. after all everyone have been nerfed enough this past year..."
"against... byebye small gang 0.0, hi blob warfare"
"against it"
"against the nerf."
"against"
"/signed.i am ***strongly against*** this patch."
"againsti doubt there could a way to implement this worse"
"asainst, worst patch idea ever?"
"againstdrops the value of my toon"
"agains, especially after some tests made by my friend on sisi..."
"if this nerf goes through it will ruin eve for many like myself. i don't wanna fight in rr gangs all the time. small gang pvp will be ruined."
"against this idea, especially after testing it. it's way worse than i thought."
"against, horrible just horrible"
"this totaly kills small gang warfare....welcome to blob online."
"against against against!!!"
"to much..... they should develop not destroy"
"not in this form"
"worst attempt at a nerf eva"
"supported."
"i tried it on sisi today,against"
"against"
"aaaaaaagainst!"
"fix the lag."
"senseless nerfbat swinging."
"against! dint read all, so i dont know if it sayed before, but this nerf looks like an idea frome someone who nerver flyed with or against a nanogang."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against!do it and i leave^^"
"the proposed speed nerfs would significantly detract from the fun of pvp battles in eve. i support this thread."
"totally against"
"against. heavy handed, ill thought, poorly implemented."
"against"
"some fixes needed to be made, this is insane."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"sux big time - time to start looking for a new game. there appears to be no point what so-ever in this game to train for specific skills as the minute people do become profficient ccp in their infinite stupidity totally negate any benefits that the time you have spent have given you."
"against - totally"
"against. - emphatically"
"the seriously high speed ships could do with looking at - but this is waaaay over the top."
"against. although i wonder, will ccp even give a ****? if the mwd nerf and the web nerf go through i will end my subscription. no you can't have my stuff. i may come back if they ever unnerf this stupid ****."
"do not want."
"bad"
"against"
"againsttry to shoot a cruiser in near orbit with your bs  incl. web . -> failtry to shoot a frig in near orbit with your cruiser  incl. web . -> failthis is not only a nano nerf, this a missile buff and a great turret nerf."
"don't like it."
"after testing the changes on sisi, i am 100% against the changes as they stand now."
"against.... ccp has more important things to do"
"against !!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"i totally agree"
"fail ccp, against"
"really like this idea, much more than ewar frigates."
"would be useful for ship-size restricted plexes like seen in fw  especially if this concept is brought into 0.0 "
"--"
"support."
"i support this nerf."
"yarrr!"
"support"
"i like it"
"i like what ccp has come up with, especially since af's will be useful once again."
"support"
"support"
"why do all noob corp/fw players post in this one lololol!"
"weeeeeeee need more speed"
"yaya ya got me vote"
"support"
"support"
"1.0"
"down with the nano !"
"nanos go game-breakingly fast - both in the sense of gameplay and in the sense of the game software."
"i support this idea!"
"i am for it"
"im for the nano nerf"
"i like it."
"support!"
"yes"
"y"
"best nerf in a long time... was very needed!!!"
"definitely."
"support"
"make it happen"
"changes sounds fun, i want to try"
"support"
"support"
"support"
"nerf those nanofellers"
"ah the vote"
"support this"
"for"
"i support this.i do have reservations about the possible changes to webbers and warp scramblers."
"yep"
"nanotears are delicious/signed"
"the proposed changes are made of win.hearing nano-exploiters complaining that nano wasn't broken and that they're upset is just awesome. moar!"
"support"
"votage"
"all reasons i have have already been mentioned in this topic several hundred times."
"/signed full support of nano nerf ludicrous speed must go.balance must be restored etc etc"
"voting to support the nano nerf. not all of ccps solutions may be correct, but their analysis was spot-on.fake edit: i can see the anti-nano-nerf thread is double the size, but its sad when people cant realize its broken."
"my name is itcharo wu and i support the nano-nerf."
"i fly vagabonds but i am for the nerf."
"support"
"support. the changes as proposed won't kill off the nano pilots - they will just bring them down from their ivory tower of uberness."
"despite being a slightly sad panda rapier pilot...support"
"/signedsomething needs to change. it might not need be as drastic as the dev blog makes it, but right now it's too unbalanced."
"support"
"hell yeah."
"signed"
"im like for nanonerf..."
"supporting... 3.5kms should still be enough for a tii fit."
"i'm for that ;- "
"there are alliances out there getting their members to vote for it, you do know that..."
"support, althought i wouldn't call it a nerf, more of a balance."
"something has to be done and i'm sure ccp will not change anything if the're not ok with how the results of the testserver will come out."
"yes please."
"nerf em!"
"support"
"<U+FFFD> give support to dev<U+FFFD>s, they know.nerf it"
"support."
"i love my nanozealot, but i'm still for the balance, not nerf"
"support, because players are spamming the against-thread in every channel they can find. :pnerf it to hell and force everyone to fight like a man/woman!"
"nerf it god damn nano ***getsq!!!"
"we must have this to save eve!"
"support checked !!"
"thanks to ccp for having such a great bunch of devs who finally found a good solution to improve the gameplay. support"
"don't like the web nerf cause it's gonna be tough to get in range with a blasterthron, and maybe too difficult to hit with only a 60% web, but speed has become the iwin button. being able to engage or disengage at will is a great advantage, and now as it was before, maybe small gangs will have to think a bit more about positioning and the use of recons etc.anyway, yeah, i'm mostly for it. a bit much at once though...think it through before you shove it all on tranq at once."
"i fully endorse this product or service"
"nerf it."
"nerf it."
"i'm all for it. changes are good. mostly."
"/signed"
"let me lick those tears."
"support changes"
"i support these changes."
"support"
"nerf them bastards"
"i nano were balanced, some people would fly non-nano setups : "
"damm fine"
"yes. please nerf nano."
"do it"
"i support this because that dev blog is right and this nerf is needed. its rediculous when people think they shouldn't be nerfed. i mean cmon everything has stacking penalties that actually work but ships that were never intended to go that fast are going moronically fast...i mean cmon. this nerf has been a long time coming."
"using covert cynos to move around is allot of fun being able to use it more places would be great."
"agreed"
"it seems unfair to me that the csm should somehow figure out a percentage on their own. ccp dr.eyjog, being an economist, should at least be asked about this - it would appear to fall squarely in his domain."
"the attack upon me is retaliation for posts i'm making in another thread. he has very roughly paraphrased what i posted, laced it with absurdities of his own invention and misrepresented me. all this in an attempt to get under my skin using what he imagines is clever satire.for a goon, it is clever. much more so than their usual posts.windjammer"
"i am interested in a resolution to both bugs.i'd be especially interested in a removal of collision detection from drones, since on a number of occasions the decision to recall 5 x 125k isk drones before warping out has almost cost me a 60m isk ship due to being bumped by my own drones."
"in a way, removing collision detection from drones would be the best thing in the world. too many times has my moros or domi been bumped by my sentries/heavies. besides, wouldnt that speed up server performance not having to perform those calculations? this could lead to odd behavior, such as drones flying through buildings and asteroids etc to reach their targets, but im not entirely clear on how their path-finding relates to collision detection. its funny how something so tiny even matters to something as massive as a ship  even a frigate .btw, i havent experienced the drones breaking off before. i did back when i used multiple drone types with different speeds before trinity, but after they added that \"stay as a group\" function they dont seem to randomly break off. that said, the group toggle does get turned off at seemingly random times, but a simple tap of the shortcut fixes that.edit: for support."
"signed, especially the drones clustering was said to be fixed with fw, which it was not.and why can we shoot missiles and gunz through roids but drones have to go around them?"
"salvage \"thieves\", bumping mission runners so they agro everything or can't warp out, repping npcs, and so forth are easy ways to harass hisec mission runners. this lowers your income and there's nothing you can do about it.in lowsec, you can just kill the person. higher reward but higher risk."
"steady job vs gambling comparison. you are comparing the return of something that if you are very lucky will give you several billions and if you are unlucky noting to something that will give a stable income. comparing ratting to mission or mining to mission is comparing something with a semi fixed hourly return and the possibility to do it practically always to something with the same characteristics, making it a valid comparison. exploration is extremely chance based. you could have a exploration site or it is possible that it isn't there. then it can be any of 5 kind of site, several levels of difficulty, it has a chance of spawning something extra good or practically noting at all at the other extreme. whit your analysis system i can compare potatoes with sandstones as they are both yellow or red and find that it is too easy to squash the potatoes under a stone."
"as this is up for discussion by the csm in their next meeting on sunday, please chime in with any feedback or ideas."
"tactical arrays could be restricted by ship class. alliances would be given  some  freedom over which size they want to build.minor ta has no requirements.medium ta requires 1 minor in system.major ta requires 2 minor or 1 medium.unrestricted requires 1 major, 2 medium, 1 med 1 minor, or three minors.this system forces smaller complexes. the defending alliance would have access to them, attackers would need to scan them out. the defending alliance can make all 5 ta small sized to force a frigate assault, but would only be able to defend with frigs.the larger the ta, the more resources required but also more defenses can be added. construction would take place by first dropping off the acceleration gate, then moving construction materials through that gate  industrials can use all gates . freightors can only go in unrestricted, making those ta the most heavily defended but also the most vulnerable.i have a feeling the occupancy system was a trial run for 0.0 mechanics, so it makes sense to look at how the current fw mechanics can be transferred.also, great work op!"
"the recruiting forums are enough to drive to anyone to distraction. can these classifieds be divided into \"individuals looking for corps\", \"corps looking for members\", and \"alliances looking for corps\". the 35k posts make my head hurt every time i think about reading through them looking for recruits. subdividing the forums could greatly increase their utility. just by organizing the chaos a little, the recruit forum could improve. i hope i'm not the only one."
"supported, under the banner of \"forum improvements\""
"support. this is a decent request."
"i am guessing this is the reason they gave us the new cool recruitment tools in game. of course i dont think anyone bothers to really use them."
"narf.thumbs down.there's only 2 types of drake setups and one is worthless for pvpyou just called for its narfing.narfdrakes fine when fitted for actual pvp, uber passive drakes are just drakes that are hard to kill, they have no firepower and couldn't blast a whole through a wet paper bag so, who cares? uber bait ship? maybe, but i don't think uber bait ships do much to upset the pvp balance in eve.narf"
"note the change there. or.not supported. seems perfectly balanced to me."
"i forgot that noobs dont know about heat"
"nurf it.and the myrmidon  again  while youre at it, it can passive shield tank even better than the drake.you know what, just make all ships in eve the same, so that fkin noobs can play.op : die"
"ow i made wrong staempent with forever :d"
"nobody who flys a decently fitted drake will give a crap if u nerf passive tanking or not."
"drakes are useless without at least mwd and disruptor and one or two bcs. how big of a passive tank does that leave? nothing overpowered, imho."
"just lolling at all the bears ****ting their pants coz they might have their ratting boat nerfed"
"not supported!yes the drake has an amazing tank but it does nothing else.. its not a damage dealer  400dps... yeah with all level v skills, drones and implants and gang bonuses but only with heavy assault missiles... gl getting that into range of your target without the mwd cause you fitted your passive tank or aint got the capacitor to run it  leave the drake alone... its fine!!!"
"passive drakes are horrible. very strong and without cap, one of the best tanks in the game. they contribute nothing to the fleet, usually not so much as a point, and my destroyer can muster more dps. they're obnoxious and i cringe when i see them.but i'm not supporting this thread. i'm not supporting it because it's valid. because like a nano-pilot dishing out 4 bil for a snake set, the drake pays for his tank. it sacrifices it's mids, that would go to tackle and a speed mod, and lows that would go to damage mod. then it drops over 40 mil into it's rig slots. when it finally gets locked down, it dies, becuse it has little in the way of escape if it doesn't bring ecm drones. no reason to whine about it, now lets hope the good karma comes around and one drake pilot looks at the sitution that any race of bs -can- be a nanokiller with the right skills, and that there's no reason to whine because when you finally do get that vaga popped and his pod, he's out 7 bil and you scoop 200mil+ worth of loot from that wreck.stop whining, post less!"
"hey, i use my drake as a pvp ship. there's not a _long_ list of good caldari solo ships, but the drake's on there."
"passive shield tank a domi. it does pretty damn well too. all those low slots. better than a raven which i find funny.no support. the price is extreme to tank that much in pvp."
"ok, ill bite...firstly the op is an obvious troll.the drake is fine, like all passive shield tankers, it has no speed, dps, or tackle. also, 750 dps sustainable with no cap? i beg to see your fit. if using active hardners... maybe, but passive hardners don't cut it, unless you're talking officer or pithi.ever neuted a drake and shut it's resists off? they die... fast.op, you obviously don't know how to play minmatar. name a drake fitting, and i'll show you a cane that can smoke it 1v1."
"yes a full passive tanked drake has a defense of 750+ hp per second, and an effective hp of 83,000+...it also has a dps of approximately 200... not 400... 200. with a full rack of heavy launcher 2s  not hals as they need too much pg and not enough range for you to ever hit anything . so 7 t2 launchers filled with the tech 1 ammo of your choice, no damage mods, maxed skills - achieves approximately 200 dps.this is so overpowered./facepalm/wrists"
"just my 0.02 isk here...when i started looking into a myrm for missions, battleclinic's highest rated build was a passive shield tank too.i considered it... for about 1.5 seconds, before i changed my mind and closed the window.there is no way you can call a build like those \"useful\". when every single mid, low, and rig slot is filled with shield buffs. sure... your shields are awesome, and you have plenty of power for whatever guns you fit.but... warp scrambler + webber + nos/neut = you sitting in place while i find out how long before your uber leet shields finally do fail."
"i realize that agree the drake is not overpowered, but i must ask...what damagetype is that 750+ against? also, how are you fitting that? t2? faction? in gang with maxxed vulture pilot? i've fit plenty of drakes and that seems a little much for anything more than a fairy-tale full passive fit, i can easily see that with active hardeners."
"if something becomes a problem, technology should be developed to counter it. this is military and technologicial developement and evolution. if titans become a problem similar to your projection, then a titan killer ship or mechanism should be developed. this would be adding to the game instead of subtracting from it.nerfing a ship or module, etc., invariably ticks the subscribers off. an addition to the game has a greater potential for pleasing the subscribers, though not all, as well as presenting a cure for the problem.windjammer"
"you're right, there isn't a perfect ratio. but that doesn't mean the we don't build our empire or set up infrastructure like you suggest. it's simply not true and i owe it to our logistics to defend them.ok, not for everybody. it will make it more fun for goons. and probably many other 0.0 alliances. no it won't affect anyone in empire. but empire works - concord shoots people, drugs are illegal, people can participate in factional warfare, and there are no huge obstacles to accomplishing objectives other than skill points and isk.0.0 is broken, and we're trying to fix the mechanics of the space in which we play, one step at a time. just like the small percentage of explorers want their own special ship, etc. everyone wants new toys, we think this one will be cool. you are absolutely correct that we are lobbying for a change that we think will be good for the game. i really don't think we are wrong for doing so."
"that's it? that's what you base your allegations on? this is what you present as proof of what ccp had in mind? this single paragraph out of a single blog?that was an extremely brief and very generalized description of upcoming classes of ships from over three and a half years ago. essentially an upcoming attractions list that was in the process of developement. at that time they hadn't even finalized what they were going to make the ships capable of. that's what is meant when someone says something is \"in the pipeline\" and why oveur wouldn't \"go into details\". when oveur writes, \"planned to be as close to a station as can be\", doesn't it occur to you that he had some restrictions in mind?no mention at all, of course, that a dev believes the doomsday devices were a mistake, much less the worst mistake ccp ever made.windjammer"
"talk to hammerhead about that one, i believe."
"too bad in lag, eve does weird things and such restrictions won't be observed by the game."
"hah, wow. you are making yourself difficult to take seriously buddy friend guy.i know you hate goons with a fiery passion, you prove so with ever post even ones that have nothing to do with goons. which means you're probably jade's posting alt.but my god, nobody can be that spastic. please tell me you're roleplaying."
"i have not once suggested that goonswarm doesn't build empire or set up infrastructure. not directly, not indirectly, not by inference and not anywhere in any forums or communication through any medium of any kind. what i did say regarding goonswarm was, \"they tend to spread out a lot rather than build an empire in any one place. they are oriented toward destruction rather than building pos's and outposts\". that's a far cry from saying you don't build your empire or set up infrastrucutre at all. it merely points to the preferences of the majority of your membership and as a result where the majority of your resources are directed.i'd find more comfort in your assertion if i saw any evidence that other alliances agreed with you when you say it would make 0.0 more fun. how about some that are smaller than your own and have different orientations. say a smaller alliance that's set down roots and is trying to defend itself from a goonswarm or bob assault? as to making things more fun for goons? no doubt.i have no objection to new toys. none at all. i love new toys. i seek out new toys. i want new toys. however, i do not want those new toys to give a disastrous advantage to one group or the other. i think banes suggestion will do that in favor of large alliances. besides, eliminating the doomsday devices is not a new toy, it's taking away a toy. i have firm views regarding people trying to take away my toys.windjammer"
"too many titans in game, if it were just 5 or 6 it would be fine, but theres simply too many to keep them how they are"
"you've lead a sheltered life. the facts of life are there are a lot of people who don't like goonswarm. jade is in good company.but you're right. the real way to make people take me seriously is to post as you have done.windjammer"
"absolutely! this is an excellent idea.my own two cents, i'd like to see titans with two major viable configurations: either as a mobile station, as you suggest, or as a super-dread with more than 3 capital-size turrets/launchers. and a siege mode that increases damage and effective hp like a dread but also increases the efficiency or speed of refining / manufacturing / etc.there are a lot of interesting directions you could take the titan - definitely it's worth exploring."
"this is an interesting direction - the ability to fit a siege module, triage module, industry module, and the 'station module' - just one at a time and takes some amount of resources to reconfigure.i think you have the right idea - maybe not stations or anything yet, but it is worth exploring. i'd be willing to make that trade  but i'll be carefully speaking for myself this time, as wj has correctly pointed out previously "
"agreed"
"that sounds pretty awesome to me, really. i'm sick of the big, stagnant alliances hiding under thier cynojammers, constantly camping gates and playing defense. eve should be about the offensive, about the roam, about the fights. it's one of the leading pvp mmo's, afterall, isn't it? what this would do, effectively, would be to make the titan encourage the fight, rather than discourage it. don't believe me?current day scenario: enemy fleet has a titancurrent day reaction: jump into the hostile fleet half our size?!? are you nuts? they have a titan!theoretical scenario: enemy fleet just parked a titan in outpost mode 4 jumps from our alliances home systemtheoreetical reaction: are they nuts? x up everyone! now this is probably biased, i'll give you that, but that doesn't it make it unrealistic. fact is that in it's current state, there's nothing unrealistic about the current day scenario. any future titan that encourages a fight is one i'll support."
"tbh i was very surprised to find this  no it's not an alt ."
"it's amazing how fun things can be when you aren't dodging doomsdays every 6 minutes."
"windjammer what do you suggest be done when an alliance or coalition of alliances reaches the titan saturation point  enough titans to dd a dread fleet to structure or dead , making it extremely costly if not impossible to kill a pos."
"i'm a programmer. and it's emminantly possible. for example, if there are people inside the titan and there is a session change, then the titan won't have a position. so the system will poll until it's got a position again. or, if the first thing that's updated on a session change is the position  which seems likely, given that if you discon during jumping you end up in the destination system  then the person pops out there. either way, your first point is a non-issue.your second point is also a non-issue that i can see: just have the people inside who are disconnected have a position 1,000,000km from where the ship blew up - instant emergency warp. call it a shotgun emergency exit system or something, but it's possible. then anyone who is logged in can just use the usual leaving-station mechanics in that they appear from the wreckage at a random angle at full speed.this is a brilliant suggestion, but if you're going to mention docking then you need to bring in the mothership - after all that's what it's designed for. by all means have it on a titan, but it'll have to have something else that a mothership doesn't.when i first heard about the motherships i couldn't dream of anything more exciting that flying around in one with my corp inside it. proper logistic support - for mining ops, warp in, everyone ships out and mines and brings the loot back. for combat, warp in, everyone ships out and shoots the hell out of everything.i fully, truly, utterly support this idea, and will quite happily challenge anyone who uses bad logic or doesn't think outside the box about this, especially if they claim it can't be done programmatically - the programmer doesn't dictate what can and can't be done at that level, they are just told to do.  at least i am  "
"i agree and disagree at the same time; i understand the want to remove dd, but imo, i think titans should have at least 12 high slots  lol , if you remove dds. titans are really stupid without the dd because they can't fit any sort of dps; yes, they can fit about the same dps as two dreads, but two dreads cost a lot less then one titan, and most of the titan's other special skills are wasted because of a lack of high spots.i mean, these are going to have to be serious factories or refineries in order for titans to be worth the cost."
"personally i enjoy the challenge of beating something difficult, even if you have to lose a few times to do it. it makes the victory all the more sweet.then again, i would say that, wouldn't i? i am an ebil bob who wants to protect my titan fleet, because we are the only alliance with them, right?basically, i would rather face a tough challenge rather than just be a challenged individual.what's the point of being david if goliath suddenly becomes a diminutive goat farmer with a lame leg and poor vision?there is a real rush when you think you might kill a titan, rather than say shooting a pos or station services, and that is a level of fun and excitement not found in other games.the op is a fantastic work of fiction, and i especially liked the speaking for the player-base writing style, but i fear that is all it is.now, if bane produces a survey completed by all 0.0 players showing that they overwhelmingly support changing titans in to glorified rorquals then i'll graciously accept his position.until then i'm just going to have to believe he is trying to push his alliance's agenda of nerfing that which they are unable to effectively use ... again.i'm not saying that the titan as a class of vessel is above balancing, because it isn't. however, i am against getting rid of things that are hard to overcome, because without challenge where is the fun?"
"good point. a better first step may be to examine the cyno-jammer/jumpbridge phenomenon and then see if it is enough of a change or if ddd is still too much."
"we have enough anti-frigate platforms already.how about a frigate launching platform instead"
"well im with you with the challenge part. titans will always be a challenge to kill imo, unless dreads become the new frigate.the ddd on the other hand isn't really a challenge. if you've got a fast ship, you can dodge it. if you don't, and you aren't aligned, g'bye.after weeks of production, and hours of planning and organization, people expect a real fight where they can shoot people.a lot of people like to make this a goon vs bob issue. well thank you so much i had no idea i was so influential that i warrant the existence of such an op button. i'm getting a big head here.as far as anti-blobs are concerned, ddd is very effective. after having those hours of preparation and weeks of production skidoosh'd in seconds by a single button press, most people just log out dissatisfied, no matter what alliance you're in.getting blown up by a ddd was neato the first hundred times. but the novelty has worn off. we get it. they're big. they're giant ****s. wow they cost a lot. i guess because they cost so much, that its ok that they ruin an entire fleet fight and cause hundreds of people to log off.its not even frustrating anymore. oh, i died to a titan, again. welp, this is dumb, time to go ride bikes. maybe try again tomorrow."
"the real issue with titans is two fold - what is it's role and the doomsday.weaponsalpha strike is bad has been ccp's catch cry for battleships yet they then allowed a massive alpha striking area of effect weapon. remove the area of effect and make it a targettable single strike alpha with a 250km range. make each doomsday shot have a slow rate of fire but lessen the cost of each doomsday. then a titan fleet can be a massive anti capital platform but if not supported properly its going to die.give titan's a carrier's drone capability. that way it can also deal with battleships, provided it is supported.role titans are the ultimate logistics platform. they are meant to be mobile stations. however, a mobile station must be anchored for it to be used as a station.that is, make titan's work just like a station only when they have been anchored on a planet. then you can set them up for jump cloning, manufacturing, reprocessing and market. but station mode is very different from jump mode. when not in station mode; they are simply capital ships with no additional capabilities.this also means that anchoring a titan creates a sovreignty contested situation where a sov level 4 system is downgraded into sov level 0 within 7 days.the downside is the titan in station mode can have its services degraded through killing them and just like a station will be in the future you can strip it if it is undefended.cyno jammerscyno jammers should require more cpu and power so that attacking a cyno jamming tower is not a slaughter house. by all means allow for a weapon spammed tower but the present towers are simply too powerful.jump bridgesjump bridges should only permit freighter class capital ships to use them. that way if you wish to get capitals into a cyno jammed system, you have to take down the cyno jammer. the present system means that the defender's advantage is far too strong."
"good point - when titans are not in station 'mode' they can still be viable weapons, and vice versa. dunno about your sovereignty idea though."
"weapons - i can understand the overwhelming power of the dd. but i don't think it should be totally nerfed down from aoe. i'd agree with a lot of other folks who have suggested a script for directing it. then it could be both, depending on the situation.i also suggest during most of these \"anti-titan\" discussions, that the aoe should leave a residual charge. basically \"stacking penalties\" for firing too many too often. then people won't deploy a dozen titans in a single fight, when the first couple will have reduced the dd usefulness.titans using fighters would be interesting... but ultimately would defeat the point of bringing a carrier in the first place. titans are supposed to be a ~part~ of a fleet, not replacing several parts by themselves. so no drones imo.role - i agree they are supposed to be logistical. titans were once the best fleet support. but they've since become fleet annihilation.i could definately see a couple approaches to correcting that matter.1  the aoe dd can only be fired from the standard \"ship\" configuration. with the stacking penalty above, that'll give them one shot and then they are basically reduced to a massive gang booster.2  make them a mobile station, but they don't have to find a planet to do it. basically they siege into a station, becoming rooted in place for the duration. while in \"station\" configuration, they can use the directed dd, provided they can still fuel the thing. remember, that a dd takes a lot of materials to fire off.3  also, they can provide protection while in \"station\" mode. their typical shields can extend to cover nearby craft. that's not to say they gain the ungodly amounts of shields that a pos has. but while their shields last, they can cover their allies. when the opponents break your shields and start getting into the titan's armor, then the covered ships are vulnerable once again. no \"reinforced mode\" for these guys.as for the many debates about docking with a titan and database conflicts... don't allow docking! make them function like a pos, in that you can do some of the same functions while in close proximity. rearrange modules, get repaired  via remote reppers , and establish clones. but actually docking seems to be too much of a hassle according to everyone else."
"would certainly be cooler - and more interactivity would require more attention and demand less afk."
"how about if you don't watch some certain reactions it can create an explosion that can do some damage to your ship and or mods?there be some risk."
"sounds like a good idea, ties in well with another idea i had involving the possibility of traces of some of the metallic elements being found in addition to the ores.so for example, you might find 10 veldspar asteroids of reasonable purity  10000 veldspar each  along with a few with traces  up to 100 units  of the more common elemental moon minerals  like tungsten/titanium/cobalt . of course, mining these asteroids would be a hazardous prospect, there's a reason why moon mining is done from thousands of kilometres away in orbit. using a strip miner on these roids would destroy the elements and deal damage directly to the strip miner module proportional to the volatility of the element in question. in order to get at these elements you'd need to go in with lighter ships equipped with more precision lasers.  standard beams instead of strip miners you'd still need a pos to turn these elements into something useful."
"yes that's actually a great idea. i like it very much. it gives them something to look for, tweak certain systems or use some sort of timing to capture rare minerals. it will give the miners a step up above the macros to allow them to compete. i think the damage could be repaired with paste possibly if the adverse reaction is not as severe. i also think there should be a possibility of actual ship damage and rare catastrophic reactions. ofc this would be commensurate with the rare mins you are trying to capture.i support this and the direction your are taking."
"mining need to be less interactive, thankyou very much.it's already an activity i engage in as a fallback when i can't devote 100% attention to combat  eg: when i'm ironing, vacuuming, washing dishes . the fact that my retriever still needs my attention every 90 seconds is annoying. i'm itching to get into a hulk so i can actually finish my ironing before having to look at the computer again.perhaps some enhancement to mining to allow clicking buttons in the ui to translate to higher yields, or more mineral per cubic metre of ore, or some such?please don't take away my afk income earning potential :\"
"trollingflame bait support. nice."
"if i'm at the keyboard i'll pursue mission running as an isk generating activity. anyone who thinks mining is actually a viable income generator either hasn't tried mining, or hasn't tried anything else except mining. mining npc ships is far more lucrative than mining asteroids, especially considering the hefty skillpoint investment required to become productive in mining  ie: flying a hulk in a fleet with boosters  versus the same level of productivity in mission-running  ie: flying a drake + dps duo .for the level of reward that mining produces, it needs to require much less attention than mission-running. i'm almost at that level now - i can suck asteroids dry almost as fast as i can target them, especially considering that strip miners take three minutes to excavate 12000 units from a veldspar asteroid which may only have 18000 units of ore.to make mining more interactive, just produce asteroid belts full of more, smaller asteroids. then the miner has to be continually targeting a new asteroid and running one cycle, leaving up to 11000 units of ore for the next person to come along with their mining frigate or cruiser and finish the job.if you want to try out the sheer frustration of the exploding asteroid idea, find someone who's running a blockade mission, and try mining the asteroids in that deadspace. good luck!i do support the idea of having activities that a miner can participate in which will improve the productivity of mining above the \"afk mining\" baseline, without having to engage in combat while flying a mining barge.having event occur that require the miner to react in some way or suffer damage to their ship will only lead to frustration as bored, half-asleep miners end up getting their mining fleets killed. heck, there's also the possibility of goonswarm miners intentionally triggering damage events to grief the newbies in the asteroid belt who are still flying frigates and cruisers.what about the folks flying industrials with mining lasers, while they're off cooking dinner or watching a movie?mining is a boring activity already, requiring more interaction with a boring activity does not make it an interesting activity, it merely makes it a boring and tedious activity."
"quoted for truth.i'm not completely hostile to this idea. with a bit of development, it could make life a little more bearable for miners  in the sense of giving them something to do . your suggestions would pretty much put a stop to afk mining or even reading-a-book-at-the-same-time mining. of course, it's debatable whether or not afk mining was the original intention but this is the real world and people will use what's given in the way that benefits them the most.on the surface, i think you have some good ideas there but it would perhaps be better to make them optional: instead of forcing players to watch the screen like a hawk, simply reward those who have a reason to stay at their desks with a greater intake/efficiency."
"have the interactive mining reward those who take part in it and leave afk mining alone.if people want to take part in tedium to speed up their mining, go right on ahead. as long as this is an optional and non-mandatory method of increasing one's mining yield, i will support it.as it stands, i will not."
"in a way this idea doesn't really penalise afk industrial miners, all they need to do is find an asteroid bigger than their cargohold with their scanner then chip away with their standard mining lasers, their beams will shut off once their hold is full. you could even do this with smaller asteroids though you would need to lookout at the end of your cycles to make sure that you're not just mining rock. you'd even get a slight bonus if you find an asteroid with impurities  moon materials  as the standard beams aren't strong enough to destroy the impurities. and so won't trigger the destruction of them.with strip miners it's a little harder as you'd need to find multiple pure rocks first before activating your beams. the asteroids with the moon minerals would be clearly marked upon surveying them and would be reasonably rare. activating a strip miner on these asteroids would result in all the moon minerals being destroyed and possibly 1-2% damage to the strip miner module, not the ship, as it tries to mine something it's not designed to process. once the minerals are gone, one way or another, these asteroids will behave just like any other asteroid. enough that if you continually mine such asteroids  say by using a macro program  your strip miners will eventually offline through damage. a human miner, on the other hand will know that the impurities are there and so be able to avoid these asteroids with strip miners.this gives a larger role to mining frigates, for example, as fast prospector ships scanning asteroids to find suitable rocks for their larger, slower compatriots in the mining barges. meanwhile, if they locate an asteroid with impurities they can mine them directly to pull off the moon minerals thus making them safe for the barges.the challenge in this isn't in the mining, it's in the prospecting for the good asteroids."
"added a post in features and ideas with some expanded mission outlines in an effort to show that it's not all that difficult to improve mission variety without having to write heaps of new functionality.linkage."
"supported."
"yay"
"didn't one of your glorious cohorts referred to eve as \"serious business,\" very seriously, i might add. but, no matter, i am not getting angry with at the video game, eve is a hobby, i like playing it. and when someone like you, with the help of your alliance, who are hell bent on ruining eve, worm themselves into the csm, where they can affect the state of my gameplay, well then it would make me upset. so, bane, go preach to your choir of goons, and sell crazy someplace else, we are all stocked up here. one cannot maintain a veil of indifference or ambivalent neutrality , while being a leader of scamming, griefing, gang of scoundrels with admitted goal of making eve unplayable. wait, aren't you a leader in goonswarm? so, forgive me, while i look on everything you and your mates do in game, or to the game, with extreme suspicion."
"well delos, couldn't you insert about any other name or organization that has been or currently in eve that does pretty much the same thing? based on your point of view ofc. i do not see what they say or do to be any different than any of the other alliances, corp or individual dating back to the release of this game. i guess i am being naivete about all this. i looked at the csm and all that it entails as a group or rl players that possibly would drop the bull**** at the door and focus on whats important. and i would hope that the players would do the same while working on possible solutions or changes.but maybe i expect too much out of people to actually look past their own noses."
"farrqua, my issue is not with people who are able to \"drop the bull**** at the door\" but with people who have consistently exhibited views of animus toward the game. i would trust a biggest scammer in game to be part of csm, so long as his activities stay in game and benefit the game, and were never found to be contrary to the game mechanic, like hacking the game, which goons have done, like hacking ts, which goons have done, like proclaiming from the highest mountain that whatever \"they do from now on\" will be to ruin the game, as it happened after they accused sharkbait of doing \"stuff\" to their pos. if goons were just a bunch of raucous scam-artists who ran around and fought all day because they actually enjoy the game, and made it their \"character\", vs. people who have said a number of times that they are out to ruin the experience for the rest of the player-base, i would not doubt them, i would not say a word. but, when proven time after time to use every underhanded mechanic they can find, from crashing the forums with their threadnaught, to hacking the client, or ts servers, no, this should not be overlooked, and should not be forgotten. because at this point, their representative is part of the csm and is able to fullfill the promise of \"ruining the game\" by trying and influence the way thing go.so, you can look down on me all you want, and bain and goons can poke fun at me all they want, but it would not change the fundamental fact that we can not trust someone who is a leader in an organization that self-admittedly wants to ruin the game for the majority of the players no matter the cost. we can listen to what they have to say, but we have to look at it with some suspicion, and take what they say with a grain of salt, just to be sure there is not underhandedness in the works, that is all."
"delos,apparently you have issues to grind with them and i wish you luck with that. i am backing out of this little rant because i can recognize the signs. the same signs i see from my kids when they have some kind of obsessive view about something that no one can actually reason with.  and don't worry i am not calling you immature, the kids i am reffering, two in college and two in high school. so enjoy your game dude."
"just to keep reminding about these 'votes'. take a vote in the general channel after these changes are on test for a solid two or three weeks."
"exactly. and half of the pages in the anti- thread are pandemic legion and triumvirate  who are broadcasting within their alliances for everyone to come out en masse to flood anti-balance threads . you know you're heading in the right direction when it's the s*um of the galaxy that are livid and throwing their toys out of the pram.i am 100% behind this. like others, i thought that stack nerfing the speed mods was a start, but the webifier nerf/scrambler redesign is ingenious and already the forums are filled with much discussion of new strategies and tactics.eve will be the richer for this long-overdue balancing."
"nice spam. and so whats your point with all the \"...doesn't represent us\" stuff"
"i'm assuming they're a parody of the \"people involved in rp brothels...\" thread."
"yea i am aware of that, just asking what the point was."
"to make a funny parody, i guess. it does drive a point across how the ot was pretty dumb.explaining it makes it funny."
"people spamming the assembly hall shouldn't be allowed to post here."
"well that essentially wipes out everyone. everybody does it one way or another."
"bitter players involved in forum spamming shouldnt be allowed to post on eve-o anymore..."
"u fail"
"players involved with eve should not represent us to ccp"
"everyone then?!?"
"this was my point.people could argue day and night over aspects of gameplay.\"we don't want pirates representing us, or the game will end up with more pirate activities and buffs.\"\"we don't want care bears...\"\"we don't want miners...\"\"we don't want explorers...\"there is never going to be a single group of people that represent the whole player base."
"wait but i still don't get it"
"fortunately ccp was wise enough to release that no one player could represent the whole player base thats why we got a council of nine each of which represent different bits of the player base. none of us are supposed to be self-effacing paragons of sacrificial humility - we're just eve players who enjoy different bits of the game and our combined opinions and votes represent a decent straw poll of the player base. thats the bottom line."
"how about... \"we're tired of hearing people complain about this csm or that dev not representing all the players of eve.\"no, this isn't just about the gripe over jade, nor is it just about the gripe over nozh. it's about people.as much as i can't stand ccp for their lethargic approach to fixes... at least there are people trying to get things done. sure, the nos nerf made them useless, but at least there was an attempt. sure, they'll probably make nanos even more annoying, but it'll be different than it is now. and they'll probably extend the titan ddd to encompass several au before they actually take the hint and make it more restricted instead. but... there are still people listening and attempting to do something about it.i'm just tired of seeing people b!tch that their voices aren't heard... only to b!tch when a system is put in place to finally allow them that voice.csm were elected... so put yourself up as a candidate next time if you think you can do better.isd are volunteers... so volunteer yourself if you think you can do better.devs are... well, we can't exactly step up and take the reins entirely, now can we?"
"i never said that they shouldn't fix the problem, but i see the problem having less to do with the various modules, skills, and implants you use to get the ship to go really fast, but rather a fundamental flaw in the game mechanisms. for example, one flaw is the whole design of webbers, the idea is good in principle, but the fact is, it effects slow ships greatly, and fast ships, nearly not at all.the problem is, of course, math. reducing the speed by a percentile value, by 90% currently works like normalspeed - normalspeed*0.9. the following is a table of that:10 | 120 | 240 | 480 | 8160 | 16320 | 32640 | 641280 | 1282560 | 2565120 | 512normalspeed|webbed speedthe fastest nanoed ships, when webbed, still go foolishly fast. so here's an idea; rather then multipling it by a percentile, why not take the square root of the original speed, and turn that into the webbed speed?look what happens:10 | 3.1622776620 | 4.47213595540 | 6.3245553280 | 8.94427191160 | 12.64911064320 | 17.88854382640 | 25.298221281280 | 35.777087642560 | 50.596442565120 | 71.55417528normal speed|squarerootwebbed speedsuddenly, really fast ships are going really slow. but you see, the only way to create these numbers is to address the underlying issue, which has to do with the way the webber subtracts a percentile of the original speed, which works fine for slow ships, not so well for fast ships.this is just one example of how you could fix the issue, by fixing or changing the fundamental problems that arise in any game, i haven't looked that closely at other modules, but i imagine it's there are similar, or at least other fundamental problems, across the board, that i'm just not picking up on."
"yea thanks for listening, but next time dont listen to the noobs :d"
"i think ccp nozh is doing a great job  and i've slammed nano whiners for as long as i can remember did any of you guys read the first line of his dev blog? in yellow italic lettering it states: attention! the modifications discussed below are all subject to change, based on player input and testing experience. his dev blog was well written and he showed exactly why he want changes to be made. some of his reasoning was a bit off and i don't think he has a 100% understanding of nano-tactics but he does have *some* understanding and is simply throwing out a fix and will tweak this fix until the game is how he wants it to be. much better than most of the dev blogs posted. i say good job ccp nozh, don't listen to any of these dorky whiners."
"it'll be too late by then. anyway i am supporting this thread."
"yay maths! has everyone here read goumindong's web ideas? them or some variation would be much better than the proposed mega nerf."
"the biggest problem is that even more speed is an effective counter to speed. no web modification wihtout unlimited range will work on the fastest nano's because you simply can't catch them. there needs to be something that at most 3-4 slow ships in a gange can do to catch a single target. he can still **** them up if his ship is better and what not but they need to be able to catch/hit him. this is comparison of similar level ships mind you. 4 t1 frigates catching a nano t2 frigate should get vaporized even if they catch it."
"/posting in a thread started by a tool."
"it's a good idea, but i'm still worried about percent's natural inability to effect fast ships."
"let's get ccp nozh an eve online account maybe"
"haven't heard too much from the \"swiss army knife of eve\" dev maybe this blog will deep six this guys cred as it very well should"
"it is true that nozh makes zulupark look like some kind of incredible genius compared."
"he's got one, took a break from running missions in motsu and tried out fw in a caracal... got killed by a badly piloted vagabond and this is the result."
"errrr....dev blog released last week.sisi deployment today.do you honestly think that all the changes were hastily compiled and dumped onto the test server in that time span?there is no way all the coding  and manhours put into such  was accomplished without a rather lengthy precursor dev time.this is not tinfoil....but simple understanding of realistic software development timescales.and one has to wonder if little things....hmmm...like tracking of pos guns and pos web battery strength/ranges have been adjusted inline with deployed test server changes?bueller? bueller?**edit**for minor tinfoil consideration  and answering to the possible realities of the ccp p/l sheet  making the game a \"cold, harsh universe...but slower, more amenable to unskilled f1-f8 headrolling and raven/drake lolpiloting at the expense of the small but comitted intelligent combat pilot player base\" will probably draw significantly more players to the game than they risk losing. makes good economic sense but does not exactly appeal to the more hardcore crowd.**edit**and if as you say....the dev in question does not have a full understanding of how speed-fits work in the game...then he/she is the last individual i would want to see leading development effort in this regard.one has to wonder as well-if they are willing to pony up the money to fly \"experts\" to commentate on the eve-tourney....why would they not consult those folks? personally i would be more than happy to leave matters of this import to verone, kiaeddz, hell...even the goon dude. and would accept what they promote as they actually play the game. not spiral junkie though...while a sometimes funny \"host\" he is in no way, shape, or form any sort of expert ."
"his \"casual\" vagabond setup was right on the money"
"he's got no clue."
"first off i would like to say fw has put the fun back in eve for me, i was going to quit this game until i joined fw on the 2nd day it was released. i play eve for the pvp and i know that, others may have different opinions which i respect. after experiencing pirate pvp, 0.0 pos warfare pvp, and 0.0 roaming, i have found faction warfare to be the most playable and fun form of pvp in the game. the first and foremost point i would like to stress is that faction warfare should not be viewed as a stepping stone to 0.0, personally it is my end game destination. if it is viewed as a temporary place for players than the system of fw will be inherently broken.the very first thing that needs to be changed within the faction warefare is the ranking system. now i am aware that rewards are being added next patch however, it is the audience that will not be receiving these rewards that needs to be examined. the epitome of this point is battleship pilots, while they fly the most expensive base ships and form the backbone of any powerful fleet, those skilled pilots get little to none of the reward. while any t1 frig with an mwd can farm plexes and rank up quickly. to give you an idea of the ranking system, i as an fc with 5 major battle victories and 0 losses in the past week alone, am ranked as a second leutenet or the 2nd lowest rank of fw. a player in a t1 frig who sotle 4 90% capped plexes while my fleet protected him from a 30 man fleet and lost 3 good ships, is the highest rank in fw, and after then next patch will be able to purchase the best fw ships next patch.fw is alot of fun granted however it can not sustain itself, the loot from pve and pvp isn't enough to buy pilots back their lost ships and with alliances war decking corps it is hard to mission, which frankly pvpers don't want to do anyway. a possible solution is either adding bounties to enemy pilots and npcs or giving rank up for kills of the enemy faction. i could understand that the system calls for mission running or mining to fuel isk needs of faction pvpers, but the fact that these pvpers get no bonus to the faction is ridiculous, it would seem that the unpredictable enemy players of the opposing faction would be the most rewarded for killing, however the predictable enemy npcs yields the faction reward as where the enemy player yields absolutely nothing in the way of factional rewards.i do not think the problem is that fw was poorly thought out. i just think it evolved into something much more than previous ccp expectations. clearly end game players will be participating in it and be rewarded as such. what was meant to be a stepping stone for pve players transitioning into pvp has become the most competitive active and fun pvp in the whole of the game. please ccp give the pvpers faction rewards and credit!"
"we should have an approval system for rewards, such that after a fleet engagement or operation is completed, the fc can approve all of the \"rewards\" to be given the the fleet pilots engaged in that operation.this way, every pilot who deservedly achieves a reward for playing their part in the engagement can be motivated to continue doing so. if rewards are to be given based on killmails, then the logistics and support pilots  such as scouts  are left out in the cold."
"oops i posted with my alt streets sally this is my main. james drakeson."
"damnit, yeah you get the point"
"respectfully, i'm not sure i agree. pvp already has some significant rewards in facwar - it's a lot more exciting, interesting, and adrenaline-pumping than \"how to dodge or demolish npcs within a specific ship constraint.\"ranks are given out for people who are willing to grind plexes and flip systems. killboard stats and loot are given out for people who are willing to hunt the plexers.there's a balance there.i respect that battleships aren't getting the use in facwar they might elsewhere - since they can get into only 25% of the plexes - but i'm not sure that's a bad thing, either.i've been playing for two years, and i've never put as much serious time and thought into the finer points of fitting a catalyst as i have in the last month... nor have i carefully compared the merits of the catalyst vs. the coercer, the thrasher and the cormorant, as i have recently. tightening the restrictions on what can enter a plex forces a lot more variety in ships entering the field, and dare i say it, even the faction frigs have a new lease on life. less battleships in plexes means a lot more fleet variety - and pvp'rs having to think more creatively means more fun for everyone.facwar is an excellent system, and there are things that might need examination  like how defense of l4 plexes requires a naked atron, heh  but i'm not sure the rank rewards are amongst them: plexers get rank, pvp'rs get killboard glory, and everyone has to fly something a little less common. win. : "
"the broken mechanics are not just about battleships, however hard you try to cover that up with your agenda.we are trying to fine tune the rewards that fw gives to all pilots involved. currently there is no incentive for pvp'rs other than a killmail. that is sad."
"edit because i was tired when i first wrote this and needed to clarify.-part of the issue is that factional warfare is an end game option for players, just like level 4 missions are the end game option for some players. corporations taking part in fw are similar to corporations in pvp alliances without all the benefits of alliance mechanics or the possible industrial corporations utilizing the space using the space you are defending. pilots taking part in fw are defending space on the behalf of an npc entity and thus can not 'highly' suggest the npc entity provide them with isk/ships to defend them.i would like to say that yes there should be rewards for engaging in pvp on behalf of a npc entity. the pilots are putting themselves and their 'property' at risk for the good of the npc entity and deserve some reward for doing so. presumably in 0.0 the pvpers defending industrial operations get a reward of some kind.i do not think the pvp rewards should be tied directly to the militia rank. the militia corporations  24th, tlf, stpro, & fdu  have objectives they have laid out, complexes and missions and completing these objectives earns you standing with them and the militia rank. how many ships of your fellow pod pilots you killed is not a huge concern of theirs; they want you to defend their space and attack their enemies. as a reward for pvping i suggest a new decoration be developed that rewards pvpers, as you progress it provides an additional reward - possibly faction standing or maybe it should be militia corp standing and thus rank. the progression will be slower than capturing complexes.ace decoration idea:a decoration option for pvp - the ace.for example lets take the classic idea of the ace. each nation has its aces, these individuals may not be the highest ranks, but they are experienced combat pilots and are decorated for their contribution to the war effort. when a pilot is listed as dealing the most damage on a kill he is receives a confirmed kill, if the pilot participated in, but was not the main damage dealer they get .25 confirmed kill. this is only against opposing militia.rookie - 0 combat kills. the pilot has yet to be tested by his peers in combat.bloodied - 1 combat kill. this pilot has had a taste for combat, but not much more than a skirmish.veteran - 3 combat kills. this pilot has seen combat several times or been part of a major battle.ace - 5 combat kills. this pilot has made a name for himself. opposing forces should be wary when he takes to the field.multiple ace - for each successive set of 5 kills a pilot receives a 'device' that is added to his ace decoration."
"i agree with that system dex. set them to a threat level, and give them maybe lp's and standings, but not necessarily rank upgrades.. or at least slower rank upgrades.this would encourage the pvp'ers wanting rank, to also set aside some time to find and flip coins  capture plexes ."
"the kill board is not tethered to anything in game, i do not get isk for my kill board standings or get the option to buy new ships, it is not a reward nor a realistic means of ranking anyone, and the loot while fairly valuable at times is still not in any way tied to the way i am viewed by the militia i am a part of. i think that devs need to give rewards within the game for faction pvp kills, by rewards either isk per ship type or, and this is the more realistic one, points towards ranking up. i agree with dex but the only thing that bothers me is that come patch time plexers will have a bunch of new faction ships to purchase, while the pvpers who are taking part in the more difficult and unpredictable and many times more dangerous combat will not have the option to receive anything."
"i concur. rewards need to be given out for kills in fw. maybe lp based on size of ship or something."
"this is an important point, but giving the entire fleet the reward isn't fair, especially if everyone is spreading out. pvp kill rewards and some sort of plex sharing would help."
"i do agree with that, however i think that scouts, remote repars, and ewar should not be left out of the the loop as far as gaining lp."
"1. could we get a link to a dev post/interview/etc to this effect if there is any regarding those with already high militia standing receiving significant lp/isk/ship rewards based on their work to that point.2. those doing faction militia missions are currently the only ones gaining lp reward and thus access to those ships, but even then it takes quiet a bit of effort and collecting the loot/tags from the npcs in missions and plexes to get ships from the lp store.my current guess is that the lp for capturing plexes  if any is implemented  will not be retrograde. the 'advantage' that the high ranking characters will have is access to l4 militia missions, which no one is going to run because you seriously need 3-5 battleships plus various support  2 ceptors, maybe a few sniping hacs, some destroyers etc  to make it feasible. plenty of characters with 0.00 standing with the militia corps can get access to those missions because they have 6.00+ faction standing.all that being said, it would still be beneficial for the game as a whole  to include possible future corp or alliance decoration system , if pod v pod combat pilots could be recognized in some way in game.at this point i am going to give my support to the discussion going on because i agree that recognition for pvp performance is needed and it will hopefully close the gap between pve and pvp in fw.--- additional ideas ---have lp/militia rewards that require a mixture of achievements like contribute to 100 vp, be on 5 killmails against opposing faction, and 10000 lp. achieving any one requirement may not take much effort depending on your play style  plex, roam/camp, mission , but achieving all 3 means you are taking part in the overall war effort.also would be cool to see decorations for corporations who show outstanding performance when it comes to supporting their faction. these might include campaign ribbons for performance in various regions  corp achieves # kills and gets # vp in region , defense decorations  corp achieves # vp and # kills defending systems of the sovereignty they are loyal to , offensive decorations  corp gets # vp and # kills in opposing faction systems , and any others that could be come up with out of the data collected.decorations provide an opportunity to recognize the efforts a multitude of play styles and achievements in game. i suspect many players will work their butts off to get those decorations."
"/+1"
"very supported. at least giving us tools to see what went on on our accounts, what sort of access, etc. would be very very helpful. security works best when there is two-way communication between client and server."
"dear chribba,quit your job, go work for ccp.signed, everyoneps: just don't stop all the awesome you do with eve-files and whatnot."
"/signed"
"/signed.i cant believe ccp still has no features in this area at all. many years ago i used to play warcraftiii  the rts . battle.net had a very simple feature, once you had signed in to the server, it would tell you if there had been any unsuccessful login attempts on your account and how many. not the perfect solution, but nevertheless, at least something to let you know if somebody is attempting to crack your password. this is significantly better than what ccp currently provides for account security, and this was on a game that came out over 6 years ago and had no real world cash -> in game benefit-fish"
"but your working off of chaos theory with the concept of 'balance' and game development. here are some of the laws:- no game designer, whether it's one or a thousand, can see the results of every piece of code and every usage of that code. this is the primary principle of hacking. with any complex coding, there will be unexpected events, and sometimes they will have no discernible reason at all.- the moment a game designer goes over six months without releasing new content, they lose gamers, as the game is believed to be stagnant and dying. not that it's a fact, but perception is reality.- any time you put thousands and tens of thousands and millions of players using a game  or any code and program , they will push it to the very limits. designers can either allow these 'exploits', and change their viewpoint around them  as what has happened with jet can mining , or, they can change the basic rules of the game to 'fix' the exploit.- you will never please everyone, as each player feels his viewpoint is the right way. every change/correction/addition you make will face more criticism from a group of people who are generally immature, pushy, and secure behind a wall of anonymity. you don't make players happy, you just try to give them a strong product.what your asking for? because of the reasons above, it doesn't work. the game is what you make it. you don't make the game."
"balance is an ongoing process, forevermore. to make balance easier they need to reduce the game to two objects and monitor them closely as to prevent the red item from gaining favors over the blue item. now tell me you'd pay for this.what i'd support here is a thumbs down option."
"a successful game does both at the same time - introduces new features in blocks while dynamically balancing mechanics for fair play. they are quite capable of doing both simultaneously, please don't prohibit their creativity."
"balance? play pong. we all know the right side controller won every game, anyhow. even it was unbalanced. i think it's a conspiracy."
"balance and content are worked by different teams. simply increasing the size of one team provides diminishing returns, even negatively affecting progress."
"i don't necessarily support this, but you guys need to clean up your arguments.t2 cruise missiles:-------------------launcher operation: 5standard missiles: 3heavy missiles: 3cruise missiles: 5cruise spec.: 1t2 large gun type  rails are ranged equivalent to cruise missiles --------------------gunnery: 5sharpshooter: 5small hybrid: 5small rail spec: 4medium hybrid: 5medium rail spec: 4large hybrid: 5large rail spec: 1so, t2 rails already have more skills, and higher level requirements than missiles. ok, now lets add another missile/gun typetorpedoes:----------torpedoes: 5torpedo spec.: 1large blasters  torps are short range ---------------motion prediction: 5small blaster spec.: 4med. blaster spec.: 4large blaster spec.: 1gee, rather complicated to add just a second hybrid type. ok, now lets add another gun tree entirely:t2 lasers  beam and pulse ---------------------small lasers: 5medium lasers: 5large lasers: 5small beam spec: 4small pulse spec: 4med. beam spec: 4med. pulse spec: 4large beam spec: 1large pulse spec: 1its a tricky argument, problem is you can only argue within one gun tree, and missiles dont require support skills to get t2. not to mention some of you fail to remember that weapon upgrades and adv. weapon upgrades applies to both missile launchers and guns  even though its in the gun tree .i can see how this would be a valid solution: maybe tacking on some support skills as additional missile requirements to get to t2 would be fair. messing with their ranks would be stupid because they are already on-par. and if t2 cruise/torp require standard and heavy missiles to train, then they should probably have their t2 to 4 as a prereq. like guns.edit: btw, this is without support skills. this is just to obtain, fit, and field the discussed weapon types. when you add in support skills you open a whole new can of worms in my book."
"if everyone wants to have missile training time increased then missiles should obviously be buffed to compensate for the longer training times.what most people fail to realize is what these skills grant. tech ii gunnery skills grant you a dps bonus through damage. tech ii missile skills grant you a rate of fire bonus that increases your dps by 1-8 at level 4. it isn't really that amazing, is it? a 2% rate of fire bonus vs a 3% dps bonus. i'd rather have each of my missiles do more damage then have to waste more of them to try to achieve the dps turrets are able to dish out.missiles are not the omgwtf op weapon systems people give them credit to be. they're hardly passable in pvp sans some very special circumstances, and they're only used in pve due to being able to choose your damage type, and yet caldari ships are still pigeon-holed into using mainly kinetic, or they have a wasted bonus.using missiles in pve is as fun as pulling teeth. they fly so slowly that it takes forever for them to get to their targets, you often waste an entire volley of missiles because they don't impact and do damage before you start to fire again, and all those missiles are lost. missiles tend to not always reach their target in the first place. their maximum range is a joke, considering that it depends on how quickly they accelerate. if they accelerate slowly then normal, they wont reach their maximum distance.yes missiles do damage no matter the range, but the weapon system's firing rate is slow, can be very unreliable as the ranges increase, and have to fly to their targets to do damage.turrets rate of fire is much faster. their damage is instant. once you get into your optimal, if you know about transversal velocity you'll be able to do some great dps.overall, turret systems take more skill points because they're more complex and more rewarding, while missiles generally are pve, and are stressful to use despite being mostly effective.also ever notice that almost every faction uses defender missiles? not every faction uses ecm vs turrets."
"ok, here's my take on it.i have two characters, one is minmatar and cannot use missiles  just rockets .one is caldari and can use both.while it may be easier to train one single type of missile up to t2, it is not easier to train both the short and long range versions to t2.for instance: even if i trained up torps 5 while you trained large hybrid/proj/laser, you would only need to plug in the two spec skills to be able to use rails and blasters  or arty/autos, beams/pulses . for me to use t2 cruise missiles, i would have to train cruises to 5 as well.also, i would have to train heavies, hams, standards, and rockets independently. so the facts are that it takes missile users longer to skill up to be effective, also missile support skills are longer to train.the real reason for missiles to train the way they are is because they are rarely a primary weapon system. take the typhoon for instance...are you telling me that typhoon pilots should have to train up through the projectile weapon tree, then train for every single missile type on top of that just so they can use t2 weapons in all slots? same for gallente recons and stealth bombers.try to think beyond your little world please and allow the rest of us to enjoy eve."
"i think all weapons systems should be exactly the same. lets just reskin hybrid turrets to look like missile launchers, reskin antimatter ammo to look like cruises, and have the exact same skills. now everyone is happy and identical."
"we can be cruel to devs, sometimes it can be warranted. one of the reasons for this is a lack of faith, whether well founded or not, that ccp are actually looking at the game from the same way we do.what id like to see is some dev's sent out into the wild and then returning with a series of dev blogs detailing their experiences and how they feel the game works. this facilitates more relevant and accurate debate around the shaping of the game.i'm well aware that devs play eve. but does the forum admins experience with pirating ever get to the dev in charge of balancing ears? and are all the devs working in balancing actually motsu mission runners? the hope is that we all might learn something.how: community and csm assemble a short list of corps representing all walks of eve life. csm approaches corps to determine willingness to participate. if the corp is happy a character is rolled up and joins the corp as a regular player character and not as a recognizable dev character  to the rest of eve that is as it would be rather naive to assume everyone in said corp wouldn't know what's going on .dev spends one month flying with the corp.ia sign off on no wrongdoing during the period. character gets biomassed.csm interviews dev on his experiences, possibly in the shape of a live dev blog with player submitted questions.interview posted as dev blog including all information such as corporation flown with.we get to see how ingame play influences change, devs get to see how mechanics influence play, possibly from a viewpoint they wouldn't be able to otherwise."
"from what i've gathered over the years, devs tend to be more into the pirating, the large 0.0 alliances, and the large and small scale pvp.i guess the bigger question is if they have the same idea for how eve should work as we do. the answer is simple: even the playerbase doesn't agree with how eve should evolve. the developers probably all have varying opinions, too.the real problem is the fact that players get very upset when they realize that the game they love so much isn't theirs to design and build. devs work for a company, and as much as they love the game  their own words , they also market it to a very broad audience and have lots of agendas and plans that don't make sense to the average player.when you realize that your buying a product, not contracting a service, it helps. it does for me, at least. when you buy a product, the product is made and you get what you get. if you don't like it, you either return it or throw it out.but when you contract a service, like paying a construction company to build you a house, you usually have some say in how the thing your purchasing will come out. we get confused with mmo's, because the pay-by-month gives us the feeling that we are contracting, which is false.your rights, as the consumer, is to either pay for the game each month, or not. so many forget that. sure, you can help them test out changes, you can profer ideas, but it'll never be your game to make and shape, nor any other players. only the developers, and the developers bosses.the idea you posted is sincere, i'm sure. but i'm also positive that the guys who code this game play it alot, and apparently, they cover the entire range of experiences from 0.0 to high sec. the only real advice i can give is that if it doesn't turn out how you like it, don't pay for something you don't enjoy."
"i'd love to see this in."
"if you saw what are demos in games such quake3 you should know what ninjaholic is talking about.it would give a great potential to fan movie making...but ccp can consider it as a threat 'cause players will be able to make better movies then ccp"
"this would give those who wont/cant use video capture soft/hardware a chance to create their own videos. also, this also allows for \"replays\" of battles people can study and thus, improve their battlefield tactics upon.it would also make for easier distribution of an \"epic fail\" moment of an enemy of yours. at least you dont have to compress a video of it and upload it to youtube which destroys the quality and viewing pleasure. you can just send the record data in an evemail or a shared upload website  rapidshare...  and everyone can watch it in full detail on their clients."
"if this was posted in \"features and ideas\" why is it being discussed as an \"idea\" in an \"issues\" forum? good job on the crosspost. gtfo."
"replays from the command central in ambulation where corporations can buy more video storage than the default setting for even more isk sink."
"and 2x higher optimal per ship class, got clue?"
"explosion velocity.just because the missile is fast enough to catch you doesn't mean it is actually going to hurt you.explosion radiusbig nasty missiles don't hurt small cute ships much.honestly people, *think*!"
"ok i take typhoon with torps will use torps on your crusier. will see how much volleys will kill you. i suspect around 4."
"okay.then i get to use a turret based battleship and see if i kill you quicker?*hint* i will"
"if missiles were impossible to outrun and didn't have those variables like \"explosion speed\" and \"explosion radius\" and would agree with you. sadly for us missile people, these variables do exist. so, i can't say i agree with this kind of nerf therefore.you're matari. a little fairy, i think on the eve-o boards actually, once told me that 1 target painter per ship in a gang using lots of long ranged guns makes nanos go away. sadly, missile ship gangs don't get this benefit and it's still partytime for nanos on them. so, while missiles don't get hit by weapon disruptors, they also don't get as much benefit as guns from tps. it evens out."
"dont see any issue here, optimal range of heavies from 80 km, gives the target way enough time to warp off before the first missile hits not even to speak about 240km cruise missiles time before it will hit a target.my experiences with missile in pvp is that 99% of the time the target pop-ed before my first missile did hit it because of the instant damage of the turrets."
"you can start using 'missiles' and 'overpowered' in the same sentence  which you essentially did, just not in these exact words  only after the missile velocities get boosted at least 3x fold. until then, at 80km range we are looking at 10-15-20 seconds flight time before a missile can actually hit anything. in any fight, other than a fleet engagement, any target would just warp off, unless he or she is asleep of course.and complaining about turret optimals is.. just.. wrong. a rokh can potentially fire beyond grid and beyond targeting range cap.tl;dr version:/no support for this issue"
"guns are affected by the targets transversal velocity, so if the enemy is flying from u away or to u, u can fully hit with guns.in such cases if u have big linespeed your missiles dont hit.....rebalance? :  everything have advantages and disadvantages live with"
"erm missiles are supposed to be different to turrets, why would we want to make everything the same?"
"it's funny that you think this is a problem. the further a missile has to travel, the less useful it is. if you were complaining about their damage at a certain range you might have an argument, but as things stand you just look silly. more silly than some of your other posts even."
"where is being a **** frowned upon? you really need to look into your connection, you've got glitches."
"op is a goon. who in their right mind would believe anything that comes out of his mouth.on the other hand there is tons of \"remove jade\" threads all the time. if he is supposed to represent the eve community then why do so many people want him out of the csm?"
"wow. i see what you mean. you really do post in a way that makes people take you seriously. and may i say, it's what i've come to expect from the majority of goonswarm.windjammer"
"never underestimate the power of idiocy + internet anonymity. whoever was elected who wasn't the tool of x,y,z faction was going to get flamed by x,y,z faction in something akin to autonomous reflex.anyway this thread needs a lock. it was joke/parody thats passed its sell by date and has no relevance to the csm."
"no no, it has relevance in the \"pot calling the kettle black\" sense.they wouldn't be goonswarm if they weren't trying to ruin someone else's fun."
"/me golfclapsgreat attempt at a smear campaign. i mean, what the **** does it matter what a candidate does in his/her personal time/s in/out of the game? what, we're going to go dig a whole lot deeper and go say the player likes to have his peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwich with the pb&j on top of the bread like a \"sick sick ****\"?is he/she not doing his job? is he/she nothing but false hope and lack of action?jade has been neither as far as i've seen, though i wouldnt have voted him as first.in that respect, i wouldnt have voted for any goon to be on the csm either. i'd rather had a bod member on the csm if given a choice."
"i seriously hope a ******ed yes no shouting/voting contest on any forum, be it csm or another, is never going to be a serious factor when the devs try to improve the game. easiest way to ruin a good game is to give players too much power in balancing, since players tend to be self-centered, shortsighted and outright ignorant. some changes need to be made, no matter how vocally players oppose them."
"meh..."
"how would you engineer such a mission to prevent me from warping my mining fleet to that asteroid belt and mining it dry, before planting the beacon and completing the mission?would the mission reward be more valuable than the entire contents of that belt?would the agent have new code written in order to allow verifying that the belt does in fact still contain the spawned number of asteroids?"
"well, you could do that i guess. an interesting variant in that case would be to make it a decent, non isk payout given that it's a storyline mission  for example, faction mining gear/implants . then, the agent could give the same mission out to other people with the stipulation that only the first active beacon would gain the mission rewards. there may even be a trigger on the reward timer so that you only have a limited time to drop the beacon from when you locate the belt.thus, it's in your own best interests to drop the beacon as soon as you find the belt as other people will be looking for the belt as well and might be able to steal the prize from you by dropping their beacon first.of course, if it proves to be to complex to code the mission in such a way you could have a dead beacon at the belt which automatically reactivates when a ship warps to it. it would be a struggle to find an in game reason for the beacon to already be there though, perhaps an ancient beacon on standby with a proximity sensor from when the belt was initially found centuries ago before the collapse of the eve gate."
"i had another thought that would really help the dedicated explorer ship.give the ship the ability to select how far to make a jump, up to a max of say 3-5 au. this way we could get proper probe coverage on all planets. make it to where it only works by jumping from a planet and also have it require an advanced skill. call it controlled warp, gives 1 au per level of jump per level of skill, ship specific. this would really add to the the explorer career path and the ship capabilities. then if they added more things to do in and exploration sites, would would be really having fun. stories that lead us to other sites that require a key to even find them from a previous site. anything to spice things up. why do only unknowns have escalation triggers? lets give more reason to be an explorer ."
"how does the old american saying go? i may disagree with your opinions, however i will fight to the death for your right to express them. that's not it word for word, but it is something similiar.this has been debated over and over and over. what it comes down to is personal responsibility. if you don't like the tv show, turn it off. you don't have to listen to something you don't want to, there is an ignore feature for a reason.yes i find most bigotry distasteful, but i would not in any point in time desire to control how people think or feel, or even what i believe they should be allowed to say. that brings the question who would even decide what would be allowed? what if what i think should be allowed is not what you think, or vice versa? who is right? you or i?if your brother is gay? so what? how does that make him any different from me that requires me to treat him special? you have a black girlfriend? does that mean you are any more special than me? why can't i have special treatment?i assume that even though some of my post is a bit sarcastic that you get the idea. forcing people to think or speak how you want them to does nothing but turn you into the same kind of person/people that many races, religions, genders, and so on have been fighting against for centuries."
"i hate learning skills tbh. i have v in all basic and iv in all advanced. also +4s in most of the time. yet those ivs bug me. i want to waste the two months training them despite the fact that i know they will not repay the time spent inside two or three years. argh!! also i think level v skills take too long, but i don't think that can really be changed now.instant +10 to all characters and refunded points spent on learning to spend on whatever we want would be a dream come true. of course this will never happen. a man can dream though... a man can dream."
"this.i don't care which way it is, but it should be consistent."
"latest dev blog... augh my god. nozh makes zulupark look good.the current comments thread is at ninety seven pages after three days. the against thread in assembly hall is at 30 pages. represent the community opinion.in most reasonable and knowledgeable people's opinions, the only needed nerfs are bringing polycarbons in line with the other rigs or the module equivalents. and perhaps some minor weakening of pirate implants or skirmish links. in any case, even if more substantial changes are thought to be required by ccp, this is totally the wrong way to do them. make small changes then assess their impact. changing so much at once is a total nightmare for balance, and is asking for truly legendary bugs.the proposed changes in their current form will:completely screw over minmatarheavily damage gallente blaster boats  can't get or stay in range massively indirectly boost caldari missile boats as their missiles will hit almost everything.and finally leave amarr largely unaffected in their bugged locus-rigged battleships destroying everything within sight. the game will turn into who has the largest blob, with ecm as the one remaining wildcard.sub bs t2 ships will become largely usless.please get on at anyone in ccp that you can to drastically scale back or scrap these changes. we  the real pvpers  will love you forever. you will be the jfk of eve. :d"
"the latest csm meeting on august 3 has this as no.1 to meet/discuss about. go look.also, redundant post. 5 mins of looking at page 2 and 3 for it would have sufficed. heck, its still on page 1."
"sorry madam please add reasons to your assertions of consequence. you ain't a prophet."
"alright. i was venting a bit. i have made several posts in the devblog discussion thread about why the changes are overdone."
"i don't believe what the devs decide to test on the test server should be open to the senate's issue list.especially when:attention! the modifications discussed below are all subject to change, based on player input and testing experience.is the very first sentence in the dev-blog. i think jade is just going to further embarrass himself when he brings up the subject with ccp, and ccp's response is:attention! the modifications discussed below are all subject to change, based on player input and testing experience."
"good thing there is a 110-page thread of players input categorically stating do not want then isn't there."
"no that thread isn't feedback, cause most of those posts were posted before the changes went to sisi. and \"against\" isn't useful feedback.ccp will be looking at this thread for usable feedback, as they should.the speed rebalance has many different things rolled into it.-ship class speed adjustment, which is mostly a universal frigate speed/mass/agility buff, and some cruiser and above speed nerf.-general speed/mass/agility module nerf, to slow down max speeds universally.-mixing up tactics with the retinkering of webbers, scramblers, mwds, and abs.if you think for a second that all of this will be scrapped, well i think you'd be mistaken.if you think the csm is going to provide ccp with anything more useful than the info that is already being given by sisi testers, then i think you are mistaken.jade intends to use the thread he linked as evidence that 0.0 sov should be fixed before speed is addressed, which from what i've seen, very few people share that concern.for most eve players, things like speed tanks and ddds are much more important than pos shot mechanics. especially now with fw, more and more players are getting into pvp, and fw doesn't even involve the same type of sov, but speed tanks and un-trackable nano-tanking are major concerns."
"if all that ccp/csm ever comes up with is ship balancing then im going to get bored with this game before next year rolls around. tbh, if you don't like a ship, don't fly it. i would love to see much larger ship selections. and yes, you will have a few that are horribly underpowered and a few that are overpowered, but im sure someone will come up with a way to make the underpowered ship usefull. underpowered and overpowered is just a matter of individual perception anyway. i would love to see being able to choose between 5 hacs, or 7 bs, and more diversified ship classes maybe throw in some fun stuff like mine layers and interesting stuff like that.i think fussing with balance is futile really. balance should create itself, period its damn near impossible to make all sides happy, especially when there are always 4 or more sides to everything. i think it was excellently put about the \"eft\" warrior part. yes, your dps number may be higher than my tank number, but that doesn't mean that some other factor such as capacitor or even transversal wont play a role on how our fight goes. eve never was, never has ben a game of \"my numbers are better\" it truly is about strategy, placement, and who shoots first  sometimes even shoots last  constantly re-balancing ships makes it more of a number game and less of a tactic game. if it becomes \"i can beat you because my numbers are better\" then im quitting, because there are so many strategies to avoid this. if hac x and hac y are perfectly balanced then tactics, are pointless, yes they will decide who wins, but if hac x is 'less powerfull' than hac y, its a lot more fun to pvp in one of those because its more of a challenge.like the ferox for instance, everyone tells me a horrible ship, but i saw one the other day that took on 2 deimos and clearly had them beat just because he tanked hard enough to stay alive just long enough take one of them out of the fight. its this kind of pvp that most people crave, myself included. sorry for my long-winded repeating monolouge."
"this wouldn't be a problem if csm had sufficient forum tools and control to better organize things.this is generally why i suggested the whole tabled - prioritized - scheduled - addressed organization. for sure there are bigger fish to fry than the ferox not having enough pg, and if you had the organization that you should have, you could table the issue, give it a very low priority, and deal with the bigger issues first.making a council for different facets of the game wouldn't be anymore productive than having many csm teams having many more meetings."
"what do you suggest?edit: as in what kind of modules. creative names maybe. you have a really good idea but your op is too vague to get any response."
"i'm thinking along the lines of something like defender missiles, but a mid slot item. tracking disruptors affect all guns correct? so maybe something that will affect 50%  dunno...just a number  of missiles fired at you. and for the drones, something that knocks their targeting lock off, but is not affected by ships with bonuses to jamming, and only affects drones within xxxx meters of you  less than 10,000 .i'm horrible with names...."
"problem is that these aren't analogous to tracking disruptors. td affect an enemy ship, while your proposals affect everything hitting your ship. i see where you're going now though and these may work:ballistic counter measures - xx% increase in factor of signature radius of missiles fired at this ship  opposite of guided missile precision skill . would be effective against heavy missiles fired at a frigate, but really wouldn't have much effect on light missiles hitting bs for example. makes missiles sometimes miss the ships they were intended to hit. could be chance based for all missiles that hit your ship 100% or 0% effective.drone disruption burst - similar to ecm burst: disables the offensive capabilities of all drones  hostile and freindly  for 20s. can still fly around and can be controlled by their owners, but can't fire weapons, use ewar, repair, etc."
"thats exactly what i was thinking about. maybe not as long on the drones, but other than that...you've got it.thanks for putting it down better than i could."
"think missles have been nerfed enough..."
"have you know a caracal or moa to be refferd to as a dps ship? while the thorax and rupture are?that's the advantage you pay for. carcals aren't useful for anything."
"the reason for this 'disbalance' is that turrets are racial guns while missiles can be used by three other races too. similar with drones.having missiles and drones same concept as guns would require too long training times to fly the ships to their full potential."
"ok, bump.even if new proposed changes to warp scrams go trough, that isnt a sufficient thing for gallente recons and eas. idea of sensor damps is to force enemy ships to close range  where ideally your blasterships eat them alive . problem is that you can hardly push a unboosted bs under 20km  web range, new scram range .and that optimal plus falloff on damps is insufficient to say bad things to sniper bses in fleet fights. ecms have crazy range, and will screw you up if they succeed, damps cant even compete in long range ewar.imho at least optimall plus falloff of damps should be increased, and maybe a minor damp strenght boost per recon or eas skill level.if they have to balance it, reduce normal tank and gank on these ships.edit. damps should get range increase period. but, while eas and cov op recon could use a damp strenght, if balance is in order perhups force recon could keep current damp strenght or stg."
"supported."
"supported."
"it's got my full support."
"supported, boost minmatar ffs!"
"so just started my path to training minmatar caps and i have to whole heartedly agree with the op. a cap ship should not be compared to roaming gang ships. they are  for the most part  stationary so all that matters is dps and tank. this is making me second guess if i should train for matar caps if i have to do a hell of a lot of training just to be told i will be primaried and killed first. and i am not exactly swimming in isk."
"considering i'm about a month away from my nid i'm a bit biased... but meh."
"/signed"
"i support this."
"name: widowhull: scorpion classrole: black opsblack ops battleships are designed for infiltration and espionage behind enemy lines. with the use of a short-range jump drive and a portal generator, they are capable of making a special type of jump portal usable only by covert ops vessels. this enables them to stealthily plant reconnaissance and espionage forces in enemy territory. for the final word in clandestine maneuvers, look no further.developer: ishukonemost of the recent designs off their assembly line have provided for a combination that the ishukone name is becoming known for: great long-range capabilities and shield systems unmatched anywhere else..caldari battleship skill bonus: 10% bonus to cruise missile and torpedo velocity per level and 20% bonus to ecm target jammer optimal range per levelblack ops skill bonus: 20% bonus to ecm target jammer strength and -96% to -100% reduction in cloaking device cpu use per levelrole bonus: jump drive is immune to electronic warfarenote: can fit covert cynosural field generators and covert jump portal generators.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------name: redeemerhull: armageddon classrole: black opsblack ops battleships are designed for infiltration and espionage behind enemy lines. with the use of a short-range jump drive and a portal generator, they are capable of making a special type of jump portal usable only by covert ops vessels. this enables them to stealthily plant reconnaissance and espionage forces in enemy territory. for the final word in clandestine maneuvers, look no further.developer: viziam viziam ships are quite possibly the most durable ships money can buy. their armor is second to none and that, combined with superior shields, makes them hard nuts to crack. of course this does mean they are rather slow and possess somewhat more limited weapons and electronics options.amarr battleship skill bonus: 10% reduction in large energy turret capacitor use and 5% bonus to large energy turret rate of fire per levelblack ops skill bonus: 7.5% bonus to large energy turret tracking and -96% to -100% reduction in cloaking device cpu use per levelrole bonus: jump drive is immune to electronic warfarenote: can fit covert cynosural field generators and covert jump portal generators.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------name: pantherhull: typhoon classrole: black opsblack ops battleships are designed for infiltration and espionage behind enemy lines. with the use of a short-range jump drive and a portal generator, they are capable of making a special type of jump portal usable only by covert ops vessels. this enables them to stealthily plant reconnaissance and espionage forces in enemy territory. for the final word in clandestine maneuvers, look no further.developer: thukker mix the thukkers generally favor speed and offensive power over defensive capability. while many of them could be said to lack technological innovation, thukker mix vessels are invariably the swiftest and most agile of their kind.minmatar battleship skill bonus: 5% bonus to large projectile turret rate of fire and 5% bonus to large projectile turret damage per levelblack ops skill bonus: 5% bonus to velocity and -96% to -100% reduction in cloaking device cpu use per levelrole bonus: jump drive is immune to electronic warfarenote: can fit covert cynosural field generators and covert jump portal generators."
"name: sinhull: dominix classrole: black opsblack ops battleships are designed for infiltration and espionage behind enemy lines. with the use of a short-range jump drive and a portal generator, they are capable of making a special type of jump portal usable only by covert ops vessels. this enables them to stealthily plant reconnaissance and espionage forces in enemy territory. for the final word in clandestine maneuvers, look no further.developer: creodronas the largest drone developer and manufacturer in space, creodron has a vested interest in drone carriers. while sacrificing relatively little in the way of defensive capability, the sin can chew its way through surprisingly strong opponents - provided, of course, that the pilot uses top-of-the-line creodron drones.gallente battleship skill bonus: 5% bonus to large hybrid turret damage and 10% bonus to drone hit points and damage per skill levelblack ops skill bonus: 5% bonus to agility and -96% to -100% reduction in cloaking device cpu use per levelrole bonus: jump drive is immune to electronic warfarenote: can fit covert cynosural field generators and covert jump portal generators.the jump drive immunity would allow it to jump into a cyno jammed system giving them the role of bringing down cyno jammers. also making them the hit and run battleships if hey can jump out of a system in emergencies. they would only be held by interdictor bubbles and infinate points."
"rock paper scissors."
"rock paper scissors."
"long live nano"
"i read countless of posts so far on this topici flew a lots of hours till todayi spend months of training timei lost millions of isk to nanosi lost another millions of isk in nanosagainst !<U+FFFD>taking away lots of gameplay fun *thx"
"this reall, really, really, really, oh, wait, did i say really sucks?signed.surely there is a better way to work around it, as discussed in corp, make a bloody scripted web, one with long range but low web and a short range with good web or something. don't knock down on everything ffs."
"againstfine get the speeds down a tad, but dont remove small gang warfare."
"the nano nerf can lick the hind of my ishtar's body which you can call its rear end."
"against nano mwd web scrammbler nerf"
"i support this. excesive changes at the same time."
"signed"
"i don't need to jump from a high building head first in order to know it's a bad idea. a basic understanding of physics and a wee bit of imagination will tell me what it will happen.i'd appreciate if you'd think before you post. thank you."
"against. this is a really stupid idea overall. you are removing the efforts of hundreds if not thousands of invested training hours per person and vast somes of isk that people have invested in order to be able to have some amazing ships which should be the right of people who have played long enough and invested a lot of real money in subscription fee's. this is just as r e t a r d e d as the carrier nerf and just as bad. maybe you should add new modules instead that work to counter nano set up's instead of nullifying people's hard fought investments.ccp = epic fail."
"against"
"against the nerf."
"against the nerf"
"against the nerf"
"i'm against it *as it stands now*. the changes are far too complex and far reaching for something that is just supposed to slow things down a bit. i'd be prepared to re-look at a simpler model."
"against!!"
"against"
"against!"
"against.test on sisi proved that this is not going to work. nerfbat at fullswing can kill the game in a single blow.recommend devs spend more than five hours to come up with a solution for eve's problem s  next time around."
"against the nerf!!"
"as it stands it's far too heavy handed."
"against!!!"
"signed<U+043E><U+043C><U+043D><U+043D><U+043E><U+043E><U+044B><U+043B>"
"against - skip this crap"
"totally against!!!!it will break the gameedit: forgot to support"
"i would suggest that the person that came up with these changes should play the game a bit, skill for a nanoship, earn isk for a nanoship and fit and skills and then go pvp in it for a bit and only then try to think about changing things after his vaga is killed to 3 weeks old raven  or any other bs  with hvy neut.there is no 'nano problem' it was created by people who don't know how to fit their ships!i'm strongly concidering quitting my 3 accounts if this patch makes it to tq.  as many of my corpmates totally against."
"the damn nerf was just too much to handle. not even a battleship can move at even decent speed armor fit + mwd. if this patch does go live...i'll still be around, but damn will it be boring.carebears need to adapt and use other ships to counter nano fit ships....it really isn't that hard.ccp needs to learn:1  do not feed crybabys it only promotes more whining2  instead of nerfing a type of tanking all together, they need to nerf certain ships down to a lower speed."
"against!"
"mega deluxe against"
"against!!!"
"remember to check the \"give your support\" box when making a post, or your vote really doesn't get noticed, or counted! thanks people. i already voted, so i don't need to do it again!  cheers."
"against"
"ccp will ignore this, don't worry guys."
"against"
"against"
"against."
"against"
"lol."
"against.as it stands on the test server, a 3,800 m/s ship has been nerfed down to 1,800 m/s with the proposed changes. the clusterf***s in ccp want to decimate their custome base??"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"i dont fly nano but when battleships using afterburners are getting caught up in the nerf  my navy mega lost 60m/s and my mach lost 100+m/s  then ccp have gone way too far. if specific ships or modules have an issue then fix them but this indiscriminate carpet bombing of most of the eve population has to stop."
"i am full against thisthis makes me sad."
"against"
"against due to overuse of the nerfbat."
"against webnerf!"
"against webnerf!"
"against webnerf!"
"against"
"against webnerf!"
"against webnerf!"
"nano must live"
"against. the constant nerfs are getting absurd. the number of unintended changes incurred by altering so many game mechanics at once will be staggering.you say you want to reduce the \"ludicrous speeds\" on some ships, but have really implimented massive changes in speed and accelleration to every ship."
"against"
"plz plz plz plz dont nerf nanos, there are plenty of ways to stop nano fleets if people use there heads so there is no need to change it."
"the nerf is to harsh and to much of a change to the way pvp works, a change as big as this can completely break pvp as we currently know it and that isnt a good thing."
"<--"
"i for one am really dissapointed with ccp on this matter. i fly a multitude of ships nano being my ship of choice. it has taken me and im sure the rest of you a great deal of time to skill in this area. we pay good money to play eve and the way i see it this game is geared up for the bears in eve. ccp do yourselfs a favor and leave nano alone!!!! so yes i am 100% against the nerf.one last thing i can see ccp loosing many pilots if this nerf is bought into affect why are you fixing something that is not broken wake up !!!"
"against!"
"againstsmall gang warfare must prevail all this is going to is add to the blob warfare thats currently controling eve."
"signed"
"i'm disappointed with this knee-jerk reaction. i find it interesting that when people complain about nanos being overpowered and start telling their hard luck stories of encountering them, the last thing they want to hear is constructive suggestions on how to setup or what to do, to avoid a repeat. they seem to have accepted the party line that nanos are overpowered and need to be changed and won't consider that perhaps they also could adapt.the big blobfests are not fun. i fly them when i have to out of a feeling of duty to the team. the small fast gangs are fun and don't take such solid massive blocks of time. please leave some variety in the game ccp so that small gang pvp is still an option."
"in its current form i'm against the nerf, and until they sort it out i won't support it, and no i don't fly any nano ships because i can't afford them."
"nano nerf will kill all small scale pvp"
"nano setups unquestionably need rebalancing. its also quite telling to see the section of the player base most vocal in their \"moral outrage\" . nano should no longer be the \"i-win button\" it is atm, but these changes are too much ccp!"
"well i guess this means that we should all start roaming around in slow ass battleships taking 5 minutes to get through a system, meaning going 10 jumps there and 10 jumps back will take 2 hrs.oh btw i support this thread if you must keep nerfing stuff then please don't do to speedy ships what you did to the pilgrim give the ships that are meant to be fast a boost so they stay fast"
"gainst"
"against !!!!!!!!!!"
"i am against this nerf."
"against"
"againts. i spent the 1st year and half of my eve life maxing my skills 4 nano and have used this skill 2 progress 2 new ships that can b nano. this will b a major set bk 4 ccp if this does happen and seems there going backwards not forwood"
"/me is against this nerf. it<U+FFFD>s absolutly not needed and there are more imprtant things to fix arround"
"the current ratio of about 900-300 amuses me."
"against the nerf, keep it up boys"
"against, nerf just takes it too far and elimates nano ships as a viable option."
"against!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!11"
"against"
"up nano shipsdown chinese farmers!!!! anyway u will die in both case cos u're only noob!!! buahahaha"
"nano ships for ever \o/"
"nano nano, la tua mano...ops sry : anyway up for nano ships"
"voted"
"."
"against, the nerf to the nanoships"
"against."
"small ew ships electronic attack ships  cretad for satisfying goon requests.speed nerfed for satisfying chinese isk famer requests.what's the next? nerfing weapons, indestructible minning ships?vote no to ccp mindless plans."
"againstttt"
"against"
"against"
"no no no"
"omg no..."
"no. stop this idiocy"
"against"
"nerf nano and you will see an entirely new level of emo."
"stupid move imo. against"
"agasint."
"against it."
"nooooo"
"against it..."
"against"
"noo"
"wtb new devs"
"leave the game alone! its prefect how it is."
"leave the nanos alone!!"
"agasint."
"against"
"against"
"well i had fun for a month in my deimos atleast, time to reprocess? againts !!!"
"i hate nano***s, but im against the nerf, carebears need to l2p"
"against the nano nerf, learn to play"
"supported"
"against. people really should know how to use webbifiers."
"against the nerf. learn how to play."
"my god, 300 people and their 500 alts all voting against, go figure"
"against. if you don't know how to play or sacrifice a med slot for a web then don't play the game whiners."
"against !!!"
"i am against speed nerf."
"against !!!!wtb dev's with some brains !!!"
"definitely against this ridiculous nerfing !!!"
"think twice before speaking. you can only support the vote with one char per payed account."
"against !!!"
"totally against."
"wtf?! again matar nerf. never!"
"against !!!"
"against!"
"i just think this isnt as well thought out as it could be. nano gives people a chance to do guerilla warfare. eve needs some way to do this, we cant all get 100 people together just to raid enemy space for a half hour."
"against!"
"against!"
"not in this form."
"bring the noobs closer to highly skilled players,ahh how sweet,do us all a favour and leave the game alone for a few years........."
"against"
"wrong, the csm's just have a way of seeing how many accounts accually voted, and not characters.there is nothing that limits the number of characters you /sign in this thread with. since there are 3 characters per account, it is perfectly feasable for there to only be 13 pages of actual votes against this nerf. judging from the ammount of alts i've spotted where 3 people in a row look the exact same, or 2-3 in a row have the same name with different spellings. i'ld say this thread actually only has around 20 somthing pages of actual votes."
"against!"
"ohey mr bs ops for life!"
"against!"
"of course thats going to be exactly the same for the pro nerf thread as well so its something of a null argument."
"no speed nerf pls!"
"i only voted once their jade. though i don't agree with some of the parts of the nerf the dev mentioned i agree a change needs to be made."
"i am not against a reduction in the effectiveness of nano ships - for the longest time i did my best to make do without a 'nano' ship in small gang pvp and was quickly educated in just how impossible they were to do without.there are counters to nano, yes - but they are particularly resource intensive in terms of specific skills, modules and ships - much more so nanoing - they only lead down the slippery slope towards blobsville, which is not a place i want to go.what is needed isn't a broad nerf of everything nano, what is needed is a balanced consideration of what the problems are with the tracking, explosion radius system etc. as well as the more extreme ends of the nano scale, and a proper rebalancing.perhaps consider modules like webification fields, or remote area webs, just as there are remote area ecm mods.i support the principle of the thing - ridiculous speeds need to be brought back into line  or weapons need to be properly worked out so that they still have some effect at speeds , but not the scale of the proposed nerfs, so i vote against."
"i imagine plenty of perfectly honest players only voted in this thread once too. point was that extreme frothers on both sides of the argument will multiple post with their alts as a general rule."
"against."
"against!"
"nerf nanos"
"against stupid design decisions."
"against."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"wow, look at all these alts!!! its too bad all the alts don't count : "
"against"
"against definitly !"
"againstsmall gang warfare must prevail."
"againstkill the blob"
"support"
"against."
"too bad you don't actually know how the voting mechanism works."
"and how many people in eve have more than one account."
"i think you'll tend to find the people affected most negatively will also be the most outspoken on issues.... the old business contengent, an unhappy customer will tell 40 people, a happy customer will tell 7.as for you tri guys, remember that time you were asked to run 1 battleship op and you revolted completely and asked that i leave the alliance.... or when super flipped out because i asked him  not told him  to cut back on nano, not altogether remove it from use.gee wonder why i asked him that, maybe this patch has something to do with it."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"i was just looking at the names of the people in this thread with a thumbs-up, and i thought i had accidentally fallen in to a macro mining boost thread."
"eve is a product, by a company, that tries to make money. your wallet is the only democracy there is. means: you have x accounts, you get x votes."
"i hate the idea, so i'm against it!!"
"i personally am for, and therefor i shall not tick the box to support."
"against the nanonerf"
"people play like this because it's fun...take the fun away and people won't play anymore."
"so people who can't, for whatever reason, play like that aren't entitled to fun?nice."
"i finish cruiser v in a few days!! no wai!"
"i am pro nerfing nanos generally, but against this nano-nerf. too heavy-handed for numerous reasons.for starters, try:- stacking nanos with ods and i stabs- make the polycarbon worse than the nano- nerf snakes- nerf gang bonuses  i actually kind of like the bonus to agility idea "
"againstcuz i just trained nano lol"
"against"
"against"
"against.server speed first, ship speed later."
"voting for this."
"roaming in 0.0 will be dead at every fighter bombed bubbled gate camp.if people spent 1.5 bill and more on a ship and implants they should be fast."
"girls just want to go fast."
"i have a carrier pilot and as fun as fighter bombing is i just wanna go fast."
"against"
"against"
"typhoon = fatter then hyperion or baddon lolcerb = godanyways /support"
"against this nerf"
"it is too much. have a look at implants, polycarbs, and stacking, and mess around with speeds and agility if you want, but in its current sisi edition it is just too much."
"i vote against the nerf in it's current form."
"for what it's worth"
"against"
"against"
"while nerfing polys/snakes some wouldn't be a bad thing, this is way overboard. the entire minmatar race is nearly useless and webs are useless  even officer webs got ****d for no reason . please rethink this, as a significant portion of your subscriber base is saying \"these changes are horrible.\""
"peach chan punch support."
"which bears the question: are all players being equally represented by this and the other  thread? or is this threads success contributed to the people with the most to lose stomping their feet and throwing a fit in an attempt at retaining a gameplay advantage that is largely considered extremely unbalanced?has there been any proposals to require player voting at login? it seems to me like at this point thats a very valid way of determining what everyone thinks not just those that troll the forums from work and those that stand the most to lose"
"against"
"i think this makes my point quiet well. even if every post in here was against and every one of them was a single account than this current quantity accounts for .55% of the active accounts of eve. not a \"significant\" portion by any means."
"against"
"/signed this nerf takes everything i like about this game and throws it all away."
"/signed"
"this nerf is blatantly ******ed."
"my sig is even more true than before....against!"
"against. by a lot. not well thought-out and extremely heavy-handed. clumsy even."
"against."
"think this change has been very poorly implemented."
"against"
"against"
"theres noway ill continue to play this game if the sisi changes are put on tq. -3 accounts."
"nerf is too drastic and nerfs way too much all at once. start with polys or something and go from there, we're players not beta testers and 0.0 small gang tactics can't really be tested on sisi anyway."
"get my vote.the fact that this thread is so much longer than its sister one speaks volumes. there are numerous suggestions that would've been much better in sorting out nano combat. perhaps listening to some of the more intelligent forum posters might stop you getting fourty-two page threads going against your proposed ideas ccp?"
"i support this, despite the fact i'm currently station camping a particularly annoying war target"
"i mostly like the present changes even though i did not consider a nano-nerf necessary."
"supported!"
"for."
"could lead to interesting times. i'd like to see how it goes."
"support!!!"
"yes."
"welcome to calmari online!"
"supported!"
"how many of you have even logged on to the test server and really tested all this out? i'd like to know how many of you are just being ******ed and going ''omg yay nano nerf'' instead of really testing this out and seeing how much it really effects the game."
"support"
"/me supports this."
"yes, i agree with it"
"support!"
"nerf it"
"good thing"
"."
"nerf it!!!now!"
"i support the nano nerf."
"edit:having looked at the changes in a bit more detail, many people are right in saying that these changes will certainly not help small gang pvp. therefore, despite any benefit to me from the nerf, i retract my signing.../unsigned"
"support!"
"i support this."
"great idea. can't wait for it to be implemented."
"support"
"supporting this. mostly because it's about time and the changes so far on sisi are looking quite good."
"support. bring back strategic play."
"that nerf bat has amazing tracking , even the nanos can't escape \o/ support"
"if ships can go so fast that it threatens to break the engine, then it's necessary to do this. and remember, warp scramblers have less range than a webber so it's not as bad as some people might think it is."
"support !!!"
"bring it on"
"support. in the current implementation, mwds are a \"must have\" item. abs currently have no place in pvp, and this proposed change gives them a place."
"i support this development."
"support. and i checked the box - so it's support from a smart person."
"support 100%.the changes from what i can see will bring ships generally into line with each other, and balance some previously broken modules/skills to the level where your choice of ship and fitting will be greater than \"nano or anti-nano\""
"thumb up"
"vive the nerf."
"i am for some sort of nano nerf. ships exceeding the speed of assault missiles, floating out of range after being dual/tripple webbed or doing 12,000ms is lame and broken.hacs were mean't to be tier 2 afs. the speed thing just sort of happened as far as i can tell. guerilla warfare is important to the fun aspect of eve.. we can't afford to lose that.. but guerillas don't come through 20 armed soldiers  ie: gate camps  to get there.. they sneak in the back way using other routes, black ops, etc. hacs should not survive a huge gate camp as someone tried to argue. hacs should not move at 12,000ms either. a dual or tripple webbed hac should not still be outrunning assault missiles. that needs to be fixed.nerfing the hac to the point where a 300mill ship dies to a couple of drakes is wrong however. its armor/tank should be able to get it out before there is much risk of death.in favor of nerf.. but only if done well."
"jojo"
"support!"
"a bit overzealous but it's about time!!"
"i'm all for it, nano's are way too overpowered, especially when you go beyond t2 frigates."
"supported, we overcome and adapt, overtime eve has had many rebalances in many areas, ppl grumbled and cursed but they soon found new ways and tactics, lets make teh game balanced for everybody to enjoy"
"two thumbs way up, thank god for the return of the af's i love those ships."
"yo"
"support"
"of course. eve will only be better and more fun for everyone, not just the elite few."
"support"
"i support highly."
"i support the action points. i dislike the god module formerly known as the warp scrambler   it shouldn't get 2 point scram, low cap use and turn off mwds  . i also think this should coincide with a change to jump bridges not working in cyno jammed systems, moon harvesters processes going outside   atleast partially   of pos shields and black ops being beefed up and working in cyno jammables.if it goes live even if balanced ship to ship wise the overall mechanics will make blobbing and sniping the default supreme choice."
"/ signed..."
"support"
"first they came for the caldari,... but i was not a caldari so i did not speak out.then they came for the carriers,... but i didn't fly a carrier, so i did not speak out.then they came for the nanoships,... and there was no one left to speak out for me."
"yey!"
"/signed with the wife's blood"
"vote for nano nerf!"
"pro.if they have a look at blasterboats which could get problems with tracking/getting close enough.bye bye vaga o/~~"
"great stuff"
"great stuff"
"+"
"support"
"great stuff"
"yay for some more variety"
"say no to nano"
"support"
"great ideas in the devblog."
"local = no suspensekill local, give us scanning tools. make flying around in space meaningful. let us use the entire system for combat instead of just gates/moons/stations."
"i would like to add my two cents to the proposed changes to manufacturing of t1 items. in my opinion, the proposed changes would over complicate the game and take the fun out of it. i say leave t1 production alone. i don't want to feel like i'm back at work instead of playing a game. in my opinion, t2 production is overly complicated to the point where i just buy the t2 items off the market. just to let you know, i'm really big into mining and i do make some items in the game. i don't want to have to train up skills just so that i can make the same item i did before. i have so many other things that need to be trained as it is. no need to put in skill training time sinks. ccp, if you make t1 production as nebulous and complicated as you have with t2 production, you will have made things too complicated for new players and for some of us non-hardcore industrial players who don't want to spend hours at a time trying to figure out how to build something out of components, you will have alienated us as well.think long and hard how you plan to make industry more \"interesting\". i have no qualms with adding a variable into the mix to make modified items but you should not touch the existing method to building items. over the course of time, the game itself has gone from a simple premise to being overly complicated in some respects that it's beginning to force even industrial players to concentrate on just one industrial aspect of the game. complicating things to pander to the elite gamers is not a wise decision and could possibly cost you in terms of subscription numbers later on down the road. keep the game fun- for the most part, us casual gamers don't want to need a degree in engineering just to play the game."
"the introduction of new skills to enable us to use t1 blueprints will unduely limit new players, and be a very solid kick in the teeth to existing industrial characters when they suddenly find they cannot use 70% of their bpos.this is a very bad idea.why?crafting in eve is already annoyingly complex, now you want to introduce more items and techniques into the crafting mechanic to create things that are already in the game, have been for years, and functioning just fine???if it's a rig that's attached to a specific ship... then it's not a rig, it's just another ship bonus as we already possess, unless you're suggesting that this 'rig' is put into the manufacturing process and built into the ship?conversely, why not have all ships recieve their bonuses as a 'control module' that is manufactured with each ship but can then be removed  the control module has it's own db entry , thus removing the bonuses from the ship. it can then be plugged into any other ship and transfer the bonsues from the first ship to the second.these would be the bonuses, not basic ship details such as base drone bay size, mass, inertia, or what-have-you. it might give the new ship drone damage, or increased velocity, or what-have-you added to the new vessel's basic stats.new skills yet more and more new skills... i would have to say no, please, no new skills for existing content.and adding another layer of 'must build this and that and that and this other thing' just to build a shuttle is unduely complex, upon a system that is already extremely complicated."
"envy."
"setting asside the various arguments about investment or who controls prices, you essentially have a class of item that unlink other nerfs, kept it's advantage for those who already had them.this is an oddly  and to some irritatingly  unique situation for eve. normally when something is nerfed or removed it effects players across the board. for example the recient change in torpedoes  again, setting asside any positive or negative comments about that change , all torps were effected, not just newly produced ones.now, combine this with past accusations of t2 bpos improperly making into some alliance's hands and you have something that really looks like 'don't take away the advantage of our friends'.so, why would some path for new t2 bpo creation be beneficial? because it gives a path for the up and comers to access content that, at the moment, is becoming increasingly inaccessible  and thus only open to a few . this is already a problem with null sec resources and other things that are already monopolized by older groups, and this is a pr problem. so even if the mechanical benefits are low, the pr benefits are significant.though perhaps bpos should take datacores as part of thier bill of materials or something to keep balance there  and this would apply to all t2 bpos "
"easy... competition... if we both have to buy the parts, i can't compete with the owner of a t2 bpo if i am using invention and the resulting t2 bpc's... if the bpo owner never researched the bpo, it's 0/0 to my -4/-4... costs me a lot more... i spend money on the decrypters  for ships  or time to get the data core to try to invent a bpc... i can build 10, he can build a lot more he spends some time and researches the bpo, he can get it to +x/+y and make them faster and cheaper still i can never get it past -1/-1.now someone will say \"that bpo may have cost billions of isk...\" sorry, it does not wash, the bpo cost nothing but time and luck... the lottery gave them away free... that someone paid billions for the bpo does not mean they got a good deal, i can go to some used car dealer and buy a \"classic car that runs well\" for a large chunk of cash and get a car that is neither a classic or even running the next day... airlines buy fuel on the spot market, fuel prices go up, they pay more, down, they pay less... or  like southwest  buy the futures and pay the agreed rate when the ticket is due... if the price of fuel has gone way up  like now  they look smart... had the bottom fallen out they look like fools... if you paid a billion isk for a t2 bpo that is only worth 300,000 then you are a fool, if you paid 300,000 for one worth 1 billion, you are smart...making more t2 bpo's available, via the invention/r&d mechanics, would make help foster competition."
"possible, but absolutely not from bpc.you want to try to invent a t2 astarte bpo? very well, put together 3.200 gallente starship engineering datacores, 3.200 mechanical engineering datacores, 1 brutix bpo, start invention and wait 2-3 months. you will have the standard t2 bc chance of inventing. so the inventor would be investing about 1 billion at current prices with a 25% or so chance of success. a astarte bpo then would be priced at about 4 billions. seem a reasonable system. i would prefer a system with higher costs and time requirement but guaranteed results, but this can be an acceptable alternative. inventing bpo from bpc isn't."
"i picked up my copy  us bookstores are not carrying it  of jim rossignol's book \"this gaming life, travels in three cities\" today and was reading page 36 where he refers to quake wars<U+FFFD> when it dawned on me that eve is missing something it needs.the hardcore cadre of eve players who live and die in 0.0 are feeling their needs unmet in a critical area. we crave the excitement of massive fleet engagements. war on a grand scale. however we've learned to be happy with smaller engagements often referred to as \"roaming ops\" or just purely \"roams. we've been forced to be happy with these smaller battles because of game mechanics resulting from a hardware/software infrastructure that cannot handle the large scalability requirements necessary for such massive and epic battles.these are the stuff of legend. the war defining battles consisting of thousands of ships on both sides. the battles where people say i was there and it was crazy, it was insane, but more importantly it was fun! this is one of the most incredible aspects of eve; that we can put so much on the line for what we believe. that we can risk so much to have those pure moments of being in the zone swathed in utter gaming fun. eve needs these wars just as surely as it needs a miner sitting in solitude sucking veld from the vacuum of deep space.the epic battles continue because they are now a necessary escalation of the warfare in eve that must be observed by all sides of the battle, however they are more work than fun. they have become long drawn out monotonies of screen refreshes, a patchwork of lagged out clicks usually resulting in an existential departure of your character from their fleeting life as you are either dead and just don't know it yet or rather worse sucked into the wormhole of a node crash. rudely sitting at a login screen unable to rejoin the battle consumed by anger knowing that your comrades in arms are dying and you are helpless to gather again and help.you've  yes you ccp  created this sandbox, armed it to the teeth, told us to pick up the weapons and openly encouraged this escalation in warfare in eve to the point where we see battles nearly daily and weekly that dwarf the engagements of the past. and yet they have become less a valuation of thrilling fun and more a required necessity of being a part of something bigger. multiple titans and mothers, hundreds of capital ships, thousands of battleships and legion of support ships all fighting the primary enemy, lag. fleetingly they are given the opportunity to fight each other between the server's graces. they are now as much loathed and begrudgingly attended as they should conversely be desired and sought after. we want to experience these massive fellowships of destruction and redemption to define the destiny of eve and our own pilots.fix this above all else  make massive fleet battles fun again, remove the lag, remove the limitation of the current game mechanics from being the deciding factor in these most epic of battles! let the victor be determined by the skill, fortitude, sheer luck and decisiveness of those whom wish to engage in this most holy pursuit of the chaos of eve warfare.give us warfare back on a massive scale and make it fun again."
"^ what he said."
"nobody wants these limitations, but i'm not what the point of this post is. i mean, you're basically saying \"hey ccp, fix lag and lag generating mechanics!\" which isn't exactly something they haven't heard before. good post though."
"i keep wondering why we all assume that ccp ain't racking their brains to do just that. they do play this game too, you know."
"/signed seems everything minmatar is bottom of the pile now"
"introduce access logging for corporate hangars and ship maintenance arrays. now, i know that ccp approves thievery, but currently finding a thief in a 200+ corp is almost impossible. a thief can steal without consequences and stay hidden for years. there should be some ways to find and punish him. access logs will not prevent a theft, but they would insure that there are consequences. also, thieves will be more likely to pull large scale heists instead of milking the corp, which is fun to read on the forums"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"is long overdue actually"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"0/"
"1.0"
"you should not be able to see other people's personal contracts."
"hey, i'm bloody tired of being roaming around 0.0 and getting spotted in local chat. those ratters whoever shouldnt get free intel of my presence by just watching local count. currently, everyone just warp out of the belts or log off when they are endangered. removing local has the equal nerf to pvprs and pvers, since both of them would have to relay on scan results, and therefore everyone would have to work for the intel, not to get it for free."
"so long as  a  windows are built into the hulls of stations, and  b  scans are automated complete with a ping every time a new target entered scan range, this would be fine. otherwise, i see no reason to force players to wear out their mouse buttons by hitting the scan button every two seconds whenever in space."
"this idea is crap."
"the result of this idea on the long run is a 0.0 even more empty that it is right now. that won't give you any more targets to shoot at. no support from me."
"the number of targets is not the point, but the issue that those potential targets are not reachable currently. they can just **** off if they have the brain to warp out. is that complitely alright with you? do you think they earned the intel?"
"dont like the idea but it gave me an idea for a new region where this non-local chat could be created.a region where no one shows up in local till they talk in there, no numbers of members in space are shown, systems that cant be owned, no stations, no pos systems can be placed.where the belt rats can come in frigs or in dreads   all race type rats  where you can find all the riches in ores, good scannable complexes so a region with high risk and reward, a real wild wild west region"
"the only reason you know that the current ship you are about to scan down is actually a player is because you see him/them in local too. have you earned that intel? if local was not up, you might see 1000 ravens, all with different players name, oh, and a force shield if you have that on your scanner. so you have to move around, yes, hit, omfg, new force field.by jumping in to a system, you get free intel on how many ships there are possibly ratting there, and therefore can exclude sertain ships/areas where ships are and find him easier. you get the same, if not more intel by local. scanning would be a nightmare simply because a simple sollution for them to counter your no local plan is to drop 200 frigs in space, or shuttles even, next to every celestial in space. good luck finding anything. besides, people that doesn't watch local you catch anyway, we do it all the time. there is a few really smart and quick reacting characters out there, and those you will never catch, as they rat in such a way that even if you pop up right next to them they get away."
"[issue] remove peoples who wants to remove local"
"well, it takes skills to scan for ships in belts or planets. what you say about using ejected ships as beacons is already being used by many and the only way you can know wether its a killable target, or just a ship at pos, is to scan the directions to know if its at belts or not. this tactic can be already used, and many ratting alliance have set their posses up with assload of ships to make the scanning more difficult, but your scanning skills matter to make sure if they are at the pos or not.. not the count in local. the local count helps to make logical assumptions about present ships, but as i said it would be hard for the pvers and pvprs both to map the situation of each solar system with out local, so i would concider it a fair nerf. if you are roaming same systems all over again you would get to know which of the ships in scanner are just beacons and which not. at least from my experiences if i run the same route for 3rd time, i already know most of the systems pos ships and i don't have to waiste my time trying to figure out if they are piloted or not. it takes time to get know new places, the habits of the people in the new places, and alot of skill in scanning. i have been practising scanning for over an year now, and i do get the results of a ratting battleship within 10-15 seconds most of the time. then add the time it takes to warp to the target and all possible lag, the final time it takes to arrive to your target is somewhere around 20 seconds minimum up to 45seconds. in this time every battleship can warp out, and those who didn't look at local will do it next time."
"genius notion...make local a \"recent speakers\" channel instead of an \"immediate\" channel.then no one has a clue who is out and about, unless they happen to speak. which most spies shouldn't be too chatty, if they are smart."
"local as an intel tool is flawed. it's too easy, it's too simplified, it's perfect and cannot be countered, and it ruins small unit warfare.fights happen at gatecamps or stationcamps, because there is no other way to come upon a target, without being exceptionally lucky.like every other point of the game, gathering intel on who is in the system around you should be an active task. local and map intelligence, though, is free and simply too powerful.i know the arguments: it'll ruin the game. but that isn't true, and even deep down, you know it. it'll take away a cruicial tool that players are exploiting, true, but even i won't agree with removing the tool and not giving players some way to replace it.a local scanner with ping is perfectly useful. maybe powerful enough to scan your grid. that way, someone can get in system and warp to you, and you don't have a couple minutes headstart in warping to your safespot or throwing the cloak.i fully support this. local is an exploit that we have been required to use for far too long. i think it's time ccp fixed it."
"also, i don't believe in removing local or statistics from low and high-sec systems. just 0.0. give the players modules and anchorable objects to replace it, but not nearly as all-encompasing. i mean, why can a corporation see everything that's happening in their enemies systems, from twenty jumps away? just seems lazy to me."
"oh jesus, here we go again."
"supported, gonna need it with these changes if you actually want a reward/risk ratio in 0.0, obviously you will need some sort of tool that shows you numbers in space for an area, or on a delay since 0.0 is mostly empty.instant, free intel for anyone paying attention to a little window is not the way to go though. even a 30s delay on local updating would do it."
"you know theres something called probes, duh. you can easily see if ships are stashed in a pos. even better drop 100 cruisers in system, i'll probe them out in one scan, and just collect & sell. scanning / probing system would need some tweaks tho."
"if you want to play without local then do so, simply minimize it, let us know how that works out for you."
"needs sorting, more so now speed ships that are about warping quick are going down the tube!scan results = only ships with pods in  x it will require you to actually do some work when ratting/mining tbh. if the are 2 of you, one can keep an eye on the gates while the other rats. hey, might even require the ratters to 'defend themselves'. people will work together more, ratting in teams etc...anyway, what its worth.... i am for the idea.however think it should be a constilation channel. if you have a cycle of 10mins, then it makes sense the gates are recording your movements knowing you have entered and left the area recently. as well as highlighting your actually in the system due to jumping through the gate.then you could introduce hacking gates.... knowing your hostile has recently left, you can hack gate intel to know if he left via that gate or not."
"agreed, but there needs to be some way to gather intel on star gate usage. this"
"causing an exodus form 0.0 to empire may not be your goal, but that's what will happen with local gone.earning the intel isn't what matter, tought you might say paying attention to local is earning that intel. what matter is what for a ratter, refreshing the scanner every 2 seconds is for too tedious to be viable.i'm all for nerfing macro-farmers, but it must be done by affecting their cloaks, the delog timer, or maybe the align time. not local. you can remove local as an intel tool when it's replaced by a passive, reliable proximity intel tool."
"i lub cs..oh wait .nevertheless, i'm looking forward to the day when i don't have to fly around in a freighter"
"we recently got war dec'd by a 1 man corporation, obviously an alt ceo, the main character would remain out of the warring corporation until the moment he had one of us cornered, then would immediately log on the ceo, accept the app, and the guy would instantly be at war with us, attack his intended target, then immediately dock, and leave the corporation once the fight was over, in doing so, completely evading the aspect of being at war, where both sides can engage each other freely.i petitioned it, and recieved the answer that joining and leaving the corporation is not against policy, i fully understand this. i have no issues with people wanting to join in on the action, and joining the corporation, or getting fed up with war and leaving the corporation, one or the other, but joining and leaving the corporation specificaly as a tactic against the enemy, so that the warring targets were completely unable to engage you except when you wanted, i find this to be a exploit. this is on the same lines as other tactics already named exploits, engaging a player with black ops and jumping out to avoid concord, killing someone and managing to survive concord, as well as ejecting from a ship while a non-combatant boards resulting in the engager to be concorded, all are already exploits. and im sure there are more on the same lines i dont know about. all these tactics named exploits use the same functions, using legitamate game mechanics to avoid other rules and consequences of the game. its not illegal to eject or board a ship, its not illegal to jump systems, its not illegal to dock or cloak, yet these same legitamate rules, when used in a different way, are exploits. its not illegal to join, or leave a corporation i understand that, but when joining, and leaving a corporation for the specific intentions of avoiding war targets until your own choosing, i find is an exploiting tactic, and i ask that it be officialy made a exploit, or rules implemented to help prevent or aleviate such tactics.let me reiterate, i have no problems with combat, war, and the likes. i would fully support a full war with a person. but the tactic of joining and leaving a warring corporation specificaly as a tactic against the enemy corporation, i find discraceful, and on the lines of a exploit. one simple way to help eleviate this would be to include a timer in joining a corporation. much like it is if you have roles within a corporation, once joined, roles or not, you would not be able to leave the corporation for 24 hours, the standard waiting period for many things. to add a further penalty to this, a rule could be implemented so that a player leaving a player corporation could not join another player corporation for 24 hours  note, moving straight from one player corp to another is not effected, except to not be able to leave for 24 hours . although one could simply log off and wait the 24 hours, it would remove the ability to instantly join a corp, engage the target, and instantly leave the corp thereby being no longer at war with the corporation, and avoiding the standard rules of being at war. to sum things up, the current ability to hunt people as a neutral, join a warring corporation at your own will, engage the target, and instantly leave the warring corporation and be instantly non-hostile, i feel is a exploiting tactic, using common and legitamate rules to navigate around other rules and penalties of the game.i ask that rules are implemented to prevent such tactics from being used, and / or this tactic be named a exploit. thanks for the time."
"yep, this is just dumb. 24h joining or leaving delay could be added to corporations/alliances that are at war? call it \"concord paperwork holdups\"."
"totally agree with desert viper. warring corporations should have something that prevents the same players hoping back and fourth. it seems like it is a way of avoiding combat as well as killing and then avoiding combat. this should definatly be looked into and should be called an exploit. a timer for players join and leaving corps should be instituted. it would make a totally better gaming experiance and prevent players from doing such things. also another scenario is that the particular person who is leaving or getting kicked out of the warring corporation gets engaged by the enemy corp in high security space. now this person decided to leave the corp that is at war at the exact time he is getting engaged. suddenly the enemy corp members are engaging a neutral becuase perhaps he got kicked from the corp or accepted a ready application to another one. this means they get concorded... now you tell me if thats fair.ccp needs to look into this."
"1  cant leave  or even be kicked  a corporation while in space  however a application can currently be accepted while player is in space, one of the key parts to this tactic  2  once engaged, 15 minute agression timer against those that engaged him** edit : i see what your saying michal, leaving or being kicked from a corp while in space is not possible, but applying to a new corp, and having the app accepted while in combat with the warring corp would change the players corporation, but then the 15 minute agression timer comes in, those that were already engaged could continue to engage until the timer ran out. those that were not already engaged, i hope they have their concord warnings turned on"
"i am for the petitionable/bannable offense as changing the corp joining/leaving rules can create problems."
"i totaly agree, this problem could be solved so easy, just by adding a 24h cooldown on joining/leaving a corp/alliance in war."
"i agree with desert viper"
"i agree with you desert viper, this is a total exploit"
"not crap. i support."
"...that is only for bastards lola 24h time out would be great. and i like the name \"concord paperwork holdup\" lol"
"exploit. i mean seriously, you wait till the last second to get into the wardeccin' corp and pop whoever you found on the alt then leave?where's the risk/reward there?i support a 24 leave-only penalty."
"rofl - i find it funny how carebears first opened this tactic up by corp hopping to avoid wars, and are now having it used against them for easy ganks  albeit not the same people . if you do remove this, please also remove corp hopping to avoid wars. thankyou."
"i support this"
"i have come across this similar behavior as well. i believe this tactic definitely rides the fine line of an exploit as desert viper states.here is the hypothetical situation:[players]:corporation a  1 person corp; hq based in high sec space corporation b  hq based in high sec space member amember b[tactic]:1  corporation a declares war on corporation b. now after the initial 24 hour cool-off period, both corporations can attack each other without concord intervention2  corporation b, member b is off mining in a belt in high sec space3  corporation a ceo logs on and accepts membership from a player, so now the new player to corporation a is member a4  member a proceeds to destroy member b5  corporation b sends a squad to hunt down member a6  member a \"leaves\" corporation a, so member a is no longer a wardeccd target7  corporation b has no method to retaliate against corporation a8  member a rejoins corporation a and repeats step 4-8 when convenient[issue]:from"
"i hadn't thought of that before, but that is actually rediculous. clearly an exploit!"
"24 hrs is too long, it prevents the quick recruiting of pilots in a legitimate war; what if ushra-khan  minmatar rp alliance  needed to quickly move lots of pilots to their alt corp in factional warfare? the problem is not the application process it is the entire war declaration system. no support."
"can't you not join or leave corporations unless you're docked? if this has changed then it's definitely a problem.however, leaving a corporation at war is a different story entirely. i don't think it's a tactic that's good for the game, but recipients of a war declaration need a better way to defend themselves, as obvious by the fact that they use this tactic to begin with. i think that two mechanics would help this problem:1. allow concord to be bribed by the recipient of the war dec  only one time  to delay the beginning of the war for up to a week at a significant financial cost. 24 hours is generally not enough time to prepare a corporation for war unless it's expecting one2. create a mechanic that allows a third party to buy in on a war-dec, allowing mercenaries to participate in a war without paying the declaration fee if they have the blessing of the defending corporationa little carebeary, i admit, but the fairest solution to the problem i can think of that will effectively discourage corp-hopping to avoid wars."
"i am behind desert viper 100000000% =]"
"yup sounds good"
"something really needs to be done about hopping from and within a warring corporation"
"actualy kazuma saruwatari its worse than that, the actual guy that was doing the killing would fly around, find his targets, and could easily be sitting right next to them non-hostile one minute, the alt ceo logs on, and instantly that dude thats been sitting next to you for a couple minutes is now a war target, shooting you. now keep in mind this could very easily happen with any number of players. so theoreticaly any dude next to you could instantly become a war target with the blink of an eye. using alt scouts in empire to aide in war has always been used, but thats not the issue at hand. and about the joining / leaving a corporation, you can have your application accepted while in space, the main factor in this particular tactic is having the application to the warring corporation accepted right when your about to pounce on someone. so joining a corporation can happen wether docked, or undocked. but leaving the corporation currently can only happen while docked. even the ceo can not kick a player from a corporation while the player is in space, unless hes logged off in space."
"got it. add a step to the application process that forces pilots to be docked up to join a corporation:1  pilots applies2  ceo or director accepts application and sends offer3  pilot docks in a station and accepts offer, immediately joining corporationi always wondered why this wasn't the process. it also allows pilots to send out multiple applications, wait a week, then pick the corporation they like best."
"fahtim meidires that used to be the case not too long ago, it used to be a 3 step proces to get into a corporation, exactly as you said. apply, accept, accept offer. they streamlined it not too long ago, bringing it down to only two steps, apply, accepted."
"what was their rationale other than one less step? any reason why it should be reimplemented?"
"that i dont know, i personaly am glad they streamlined it, makes things easier, although reducing steps in one area is bound to open up loopholes in another, so its a balancing act, one way or another."
"crack down on this exploit asap."
"i agree with above : "
"yar, i disliked corp-hopping already, and we in tnt recently experienced a similar incident where a wartarget quit corp on jumping through into our gatecamp, hoping to get us concorded by attacking him."
"this is using game mechanics in a way that is not intended.this is an exploit.solanthus lightbringerdon't get mad.get even."
"easy fix, make war declaration a per-player flag.a: your corp gets war-decced by another corp. immediately all members of your corp and theirs are flagged, individually, as being at war.b: one of your corpies jumps to escape the war... no such luck, he still has the war flag for the duration of this war cycle  1 week , no matter where he goes or what corp he joins  this flag does not transfer to the new corp .c: an unknown joins the corp that's at war with you is flagged as thus, and this flag remains with that individual even if they jump corp  as stated with b  for the remaining duration of the current war cycle.this fixes many warfare loopholes."
"this is a fantastic idea. op idea supported, and props given to mister xerox for a nice addendum."
"this issue is such a no-brainer that i am surprised the op had to even ask for support. this tactic is practically the text-book example of a clear-cut exploit."
"the sad part is that now that this has been brought to into the light you will see this used like mad until ccp officially announces it as an exploit or resolves the issue."
"something needs to happen"
"ah what the hell./signed."
"it's not just the greatest scandal in eve he exposed, but quite probably in all western mmo's history. this may entitle him to some special consideration, though not an outright pardon, especially considering his further actions.his banning was, as best as can be determined, carried out before his various untoward actions were. he could quite conceivably be reinstated as a token action, and then be re-banned for his later actions. as it stands, his banning is the very worst public element of the t20 debacle, i've lost more than one eve friend because they lost faith in ccp, and it delayed my return to the game by about 6 months. punishing whistleblowers is incredibly foolish, it causes immense damage to public and internal trust, and there are very good reasons the real world has laws protecting whistleblowers.tbh ccp came very close to actual illegal activity, defrauding  'a deception deliberately practiced in order to secure unfair or unlawful gain'  the part of the player base not receiving dev-friend-help by suggesting that everyone was on an equal footing and that in game money or other recourses were required to acquire various items, thus gaining ccp money by making those player pay for their accounts longer to acquire the isk to get the items.this was not only hidden by ccp passively, but actively when people attempted to reveal it, and those actions have gone without consequence.i support a general appeal system for bans. i support the t20 incident receiving renewed attention, specifically from the csm, with ccp revealing such information as was hidden/deleted from the forums at the time to them; if necessary in closed session."
"in the current incantation of the titan dd, especially in conjunction with jump bridges and cyno jammers, i do feel a change is needed. i do not want the dd removed from game, i only want it's effect tweaked.right now, a dd is a solo player capable of whiping an entire fleet off the map with a button. yes it is dependent on the fleet not being able to flee. yes it is a very costly ship, but it's been shown that the value of the dd on top of all the other bonuses of a titan is a bit high.solutionchange the dd effect from damage directly to a ship to what would essentially be an astronomic em burst. this would affect ship systems and potentially cause overloads in ship modules. it would cripple a fleet for a limited time w/o single handedly destroying said fleet.effects:25,000 damage  racial still 47,000 base energy neutralized  boostable with skill 10% chance to cause 40 heat damage to ship modules  possibly link this to a skill 20 second warp recalibration for all ships effectedenergy neutralizer reasoning this would give minmitar/caldari a new role in fleet combat and diminish gallente and amarr slightly in fleet warfare. it would also criple mwd effects on fleets trying to escape bubbles and would act as a good harsh effect titans could dish out. cap ships in siege/triage and immune to ewar should not be affected by this, or it should be heavily diminished effect to prevent titan spamming.heat reasoning: again a fleet crippling measure that could also aid to bring in the age of t3 modules. 10% would effectively remove 1.5 modules average from battleships on the field. i do not have issues with this working on cap fleets if it were again diminished effect, say maybe 2% chance while in siege/traige.warp recalibration reasoning: including the titan, this would prevent ships from just instantaneously leaving the field of play if affected giving the friendly fleet a small window to warp in and being the fight at an advantage... this would not prevent alignment and would basically create havoc for people trying to mwd up to the titan for a bubble."
"i kinda like where you are going with this .. but what about racial variation?also, you would either need role bonuses for certain ships, or an alternative method of mitigating the effect, so that ships which can currently tank a dd have some increased resistance.needs much work, but an interesting jump-off point."
"maybe reduce the actual physical damage of a dd to add the racial element... maybe 10k damage base.keep in mind the titans already give a bonus based on their racial element... ie amarr and cap, caldari and shields."
"interesting, but i think racializing it is a solution too. my first inclination is to base them off the recon ships - amarr get neut -100/second , caldari get jam 30 points, all types - or perhaps bring in scripts , gallente get a bubble, and minmatar get a huge web -90%, even after the web nerf . make them have a good-sized duration on them, measured in minutes - which of course also requires the titans to stick around instead of running - though they should only affect those who were there when the effect started. i like the idea of a fleet leading with a titan or 10, ddding, and having everything else follow to lead off a fleet fight. include some damage, maybe, but not a whole lot. and let titans use siege modules, to allow them to actually have the wherewithal to stand and fight and use those gun bonuses instead of being a useless target once the battle actually starts."
"i love to \"think outside the box\", even though i hate that phrase .. my little twist to this whole topic thought, is...... what if the titan super weapon was defensive in nature?just a thought"
"/bump, can we get an update?"
"i didn't get the chance to fly much of recons till lately. i've been putting that off for too long and one day, decided it was time.but onto the things that matter, i flew both arazu and lachesis, they are very similar boats, but require a tad different play style because of the different slot layouts when you go about fitting a boat. the arazu have to look at spare cpu to fit the cloak, while lachesis have to conserve pg for a plate  i fly plated lachesis, sue me .same goes with curse and pilgrim, they are somewhat similar boats, but two different play styles are required. curse, most ppl just throw overdrive injector, nanofiber and polycarbon on if they can afford them, whizz around the field while neuting the target down for the other nano ships to do the damage. while with the pilgrim, more adept as solo hunting and shadowing  cloaking in a hostile system to prevent enemy from ratting/mining , it cant nano well because of the lack of range.people are saying that the pilgrim needs some love is because they can't nano it. cant hop in on it go get some kills and get away with it.im saying the pilgrim is fine. ok... well, except the tracking disruption part.if you want to nano the pilgrim, buy corpum a-type medium nos and neut  isn't that what the devs implying? spend a load of isk to get the same result is 'imbalance'? , they got the range of 19km. oh, and you'll be faster than a nanocurse coz of the 5th lowslot!leave the pilgrim alone. do something about the script!"
"how do you get teh thumbs up?"
"obviously you have never flown the pilgrim. you are missing the point completely. all other recon ships have similar range bonuses but the pilgrim. sure you can spend extra isk to put dead space nos on them... but your neuts will won't be able to reach. since nos was nerfed your post is probably one of the most stupid posts that i have seen. i personally love the idea of having the range/amt bonus as one. if not that then i would love to see something added to the pilgrims tank since it is supposed to fight in web range unlike any other recon.stabby mcstabbins"
"i lol at pilgrams.....fix em please!"
"pilgrim needs some love for sure."
"i like the cap bonus idea, keeps the pilgrim in the shape it is and not changing the roles it has as a sneek up fighter, good call mate./signed"
"my view is that titans are the ultimate expression of power  just look at the shape of them  and should be dangerous ships worthy of fear. however, the doomsday is silly and has no place in eve when you consider that it ends, in a moment, what could have been a great battle between many players. as mentioned there was an hp boost because people died too quickly which makes the addition of doomsdays a bit perplexing.i don't care for the idea of changing titans into mobile stations as i think we have enough pos's and stations lying around 0.0 and it doesn't really inspire... anything.some ideas:*remove the very broken doomsday device because it does not promote interesting game play.*reduce the range of jump bridging, but preserve its personal jump range; i see titans as combat ships not logistics taxis.*give titans a special 5-minute siege module that allows it to have greater than dreadnought dps/tank with the same tracking and movement etc. penalties. also, allow it to be remote repaired, maybe with some kind of cap penalty, while in siege.*give them the ability to use bombs  like stealth bombers , but enable them to be fired to mid range.*no drones, no fighters, no more lag bots!overpowered? underpowered? crazy? i don't know, but it could be fun. i want to see these ships on grid, holding their own, and not dying the second a blob looks at them, but without having to fear my ship *and* fleet will pop in a flash when they warp in."
"well, i wish your comrades would say the same about the nano-nerf, as nano's are also hard to overcome.... for tzarailsa it seems too hard.. maybe you need to help her a little."
"ooh... nanos are bad... when you're facing them. but titans are perfectly fine... when they're on your team?"
"the critical titan saturation point where they can ddd capitals isn't what people should be worried about. the critical point came long ago, when it became trivial to field enough titans to destroy fully tanked hics. combine that with decloak-and-ddd, driveby-ddd, ddd-before-you-load-grid, ddd-before-a-fleet-decloaks, cyno-multiple-titans-to-one-bs-and-ddd... the only titans that get killed are the ones that are fielded alone. it's almost unprecedented to kill a titan if you're fighting more than one of the damn things, and the more there are the harder it gets. but the more you have, the easier it is to get more, since they're a wonderful logistics tool as well!it's a horrendous positive feedback loop that creates a downward spiral where 0.0 warfare gets progressively less and less fun. now, removing doomsdays entirely is a massive change, but what else can halt the spiral?give titans smartbomb range and damage role bonuses, then remove dd?getting near a titan and hic-tackling it would still be damn hard, but you don't have the stupidity that you have now, where everything subcapital can be made totally redundant by four titans. and that's a fairly low number for some alliances to field."
"nope, my corp doesn't have any titans, and except getting a ride with \"steve\" in ascn once i've never had any benefit from any titan.imho titans should not be nerfed in the way the op would like it.i would like to see some changes:as a titan is a strategic asset, ccp should try and skew . for example ccp should put incentives in place not to use titans to triple dd a roaming gang. proposed solution: firing a dd should cost significant isk  500 mio to 1 bio isk . a number of titan pilots could still do it - for sh*ts and giggles - but it should not be the 'normal' thing to do.i like the suggestion of using a script: a 100 km radius where a dd does 50000 k damage or a 250 k radius where a dd does 10000 damage. something like that. alternative 1  could be combined : a 'rolling' dd would be nice, you get damaged quicker than 15 secs near the center of the blast  10 sec  but maybe up to 30 secs at the outskirts. seeing the blast rolling towards you while you scream your ship to get into warp is cool.this could well be combined with the following: the titan needs to launch its dd on a friendly. so you have to get the friendly to a location where he can initiate a kind of field to which the titan pilot can release the blast. the blast ball expands from the field  in a rolling fashion . the field protects the friendly. of course there is a 2-3 sec delay in which the friendly has to open the field. if the friendly gets jammed or killed he can't open the field. a game of cat and mouse ensues. what i like about this is that in a lagged out environment the use of dd's to 'clean' the field gets more difficult. if your field captain gets lagged out and thinks he opens the field at the enemy location, but in reality didn't make the warp, titan could dd his own fleet.in short, bring some skill and teamwork to the dd weapon, make that it isn't used frivously  but can still be for ****s and giggles against our poor nano-nerfed exceed gangs if you want to cough of up the cash to see us suffer  . this requires the 'nerfwand', not the 'nerfhammer'."
"reading comprehension ftw"
"as far as i have seen most problems occur when 2 or more titans enter the field. 1 ddd is survivable 2 in a row are certain death for any ship sub capital. thats the reason u wont see them on there own alot. so i would agree with the persons earlier. titans arent support vessels in my eyes they are the ultimate destroyer of worlds its shoudl stand pround in the frontlines and lead its fleet to glory and not intended for geurilla warfare   aka lets doomsday these guys warp to a safe pos and jump out when we can make it pointless for a fleet to have more then one on the field with removing the abality to set of multiple ddd in sequence to simply kill all in sight and move on.why not give it command bonuses   it is the flagship isnt it? letting it deploy as a stationary object with expanding shields is a great idea but should be considered more of secondary purpose. like a safe place away from home without hauling in an entire pos. in htat mode let it use up lo just the same as a regular pos and enlarge its shields to 10 km around it."
"the ability to dock with a titan is probably the most useful ability it could have, and fairly feasable to pull off as well. docking would work in a similar fashion to storing a ship in a pos array or a carrier hangar, but when you dock, your view becomes one with the titans. ie, you get a camera drone and can look around the vessel, view the map, etc as if you were driving the titan itself. jumping would work like a jump portal: all docked pilots would transfer with the titan and reemerge on the other side still within the titan.a market on the titan would be limited to an \"in station\" view of all \"for sale\" stuff within it's mighty hold.  yes it would need a seperate hangar but it's big enough, yes?  a window seperate from the actual market perhaps? a seperate database for all saleables on the titan and a query for each titan would fix things up a bit.one final idea: drop the doomsday and give it point defenses manageable only by docked pilots. think pos defenses, but in large numbers and not quite so powerful. these would be special modules for high slots on a titan, and each one would represent several such point defenses.of course they would vary in size and power. smaller for frigate popping, med for cruisers, etc.one big fat thumb all the way up."
"yeah pointed that out page one"
"i am wondering lavista,are the changes that are allowed to be processed by the csm, only changes that can work on the current game design and mechanics  tech wise ?because you are trying to say it is the core design of eve that does not allow us these features? well buddy, think again, and think hard before you answer again in an epic style fail like this one.you would be amazed if you'd actually take the time to talk to a design team about features before you reply like this, you have no clue what can and cannot be done in a design. guess what, you only think that it can't be done, simply because it goes beyond your comprehension.no, this is not a troll, it is me saying that you shouldn't be wrecking ones idea just because you have a lack in imagination in, and do not know enough about, either game design, networking and coding."
"the devs stated that we couldn't scoop pods or transport other players because of session change issues, and that was years ago.unless they have re-written the core code around that, then he is probably right.unless of course you have information to the contrary?"
"i certainly hope that in ccp's effort to imporves the game performance that they can begin to offload clients who are not actually on a grid to different servers.  so people who are in station are on a different server than those out in space in a system, although they can all see the same local chat . if they do that essentially the problem with pods docking up with a titan goes away:essentially:system a is where the titan is locatedsystem b is where the titan is going to move to soonsystem a is on server 1system b is on server 2titan dock is on server 3so when someone docks with the titan they session change to server 3, when they undock they session change to whatever server the titan resides in.  for clarification, obviously servers will be hosting more than just a single system or outpost, it would have to be fluid i think ccp is working tword this so they can have multiple servers handle the load of a single system, and dynamically add and remove servers to a system in order to gain higher processing power when needed. but this is just speculation so if the titan pilot session changes to a different server, everyone who is 'inside' the titan does not do a session change at all due to the fact that they are going to be communicating with the same server until they undock. the only difference is now when they undock they will load server 2, which is hosting system b. personally i want to marginalize the aoe weapon of the titan, and change their offensive system into something more fitting with the rest of the games design. generally a ship in a game is best suited to go after its own type of ship. introducing a titan sized weapon system, and changing the doomsday operation skill to titan weapon operation  simple rename  and introduce the new modules into the game. then on top of this change them into things that can be deployed as a mobile outpost. i think it would be neat to see a titan being used to help battleship pilots to pull out new battleships from a titan to continue fighting. although in my honest opinion, most of the titan problems can be addressed with pos mechanic fixes and lag handling fixes. expanding on the outpost idea, titans should be able to 'deploy'  they initiate an emergancy warp, and then deploy in a safespot with a pos shield to protect undocking ships. on top of this guns deploy out of the titan to target any hostile ships that come on grid. this pos shield is run by consuming a new type of fuel which its elements only comes from 0.0 ice mining. when the titan undeploys it keeps its shield up and emergancy warps back to where it came from  cannot be tackled at this point  and then the shield goes offline just as it enters warp. when a titan logs out it automatically enters this outpost state, if it isnt fueled it loses its outward shield and can be tackled as it undeploys. the titans shield can be reinforced in which it burns 4 times the amount of fuel per hour. pilots can only undock when the titan is not in warp. if the titan is destroyed, all assets in it are destroyed as well. any clones are moved to the players corperation headquarter station, any players logged out inside the titan, lose their clones. all jump clones in the titan are destroyed as well. something along the lines of that would be pretty cool, on top of all that when the titan deploys the titan pilot can get into a ship he has stored in the hanger and use it without worrying about someone stealing his titan."
"load balancing techniques would make the capability to move pilots around trivial.it shouldn't be hard anyway. pilot docks at titan, throw pilot into list, titan cyno's out, tell all pilots on list to session change. done.i know bane said he thought it probably not feasible  and really just didn't want it to bring in more issues to the discussion  but it's not a hard problem. for a real mobile station type asset to exist and be valuable as well as presenting some really fun opportunities for roaming around space with a mothership as a base of operations, the docking behavior is a requisite.not only insanely cool, but also very fun."
"any fans of the homeworld 2 game might remember the dreadnaught that you get later in the game. it had something like a targeted ion beam as its main weapon. maybe something along those lines? a module that is fit to the high slot of a titan that doesnt use any 'fuels'  edit: maybe some kind of ammo should be added  - but takes significant cap to operate.it should maybe work kinda like the nos does now? or maybe have the damage depend on the targets sig radius... unless its 'fair' to have the titan able to insta-kill anything it gets a lock on.i dont know exactly how it might work, but i'm deffinintly in agreeance that the titan as it is now needs to change./siggy"
"simply put... terrain effects and weather but on a cosmic scale.magnetic storms, solar flares, dust clouds and such having an effect on game play. your scanner or probes giving crappy readings? the magnetic interference from an orbiting dust cloud is your issue.need to sneak up on someone in a system? wait for excited solar flare activity to mess with their sensors and you might have a chance.from hiding nice exploration sites to expanding the dimensions of combat in eve, the terrain should finally have an effect. tactics, system dynamics and various other variables could be added into the game to expand almost all parts of it.just and idea.thanks for reading."
"i'm all for more \"space\" stuff in this space game...which is why i suggested storm chasers a while back."
"i think that tactical environments could provide a lot of opportunity to create more differentiation between size classes of ships.environmental effects based on a ship's signature radius could be used to create situations where a frigate isn't instantly destroyed by a cruiser, for example. specifics would take some time to hammer out though."
"i can imagine a nexus cloud that is only a couple a grid big. when a ship comes into this cloud, his 'sensors' are limited to about 40km max. something could be right in front of him, and not only can he not see it on his screen, but he can't see it with the overview.storms that do create sensor copies on the overview, or affect tracking. clouds where weapons are useless, or that act as a naturalized webifier. clouds that take you off the local channel, but also prevent you from communicating.from flares as you have mentioned, which are random occurances. solar storms that can actually be tracked across systems. nebula clouds which can be searched out using probes.want gurilla tactics? there you go. hit and run, droping back into a hidden nebula cloud and effecting what appears to be a 'log-off'. system capture points within clouds that make it nearly impossible for large fleets to engage effectively in.so many options. course, the dev team asked us some two years ago to come up with ideas for these types of things. seems like all we got in return were clouds that did damage over time. sad."
"you could also link this in with blobs... sit 100 ships in the same place for too long, and an ion storm will develop emcompassing the entire grid and/or solar system due to all of the warp stabilisation fields interfering with each other. if the ships don't move, the storm just gets worse and worse over time, until it starts to instapop smaller ships.it would be great to see some weather effects to be mined or chased for certain minerals or other tasty goodies, while having others simply appear in space as annoyances!here are some thoughts off the top of my head:i like it!"
"i'll support this, some new dynamics would be nice."
"cool, but none of these auto kill clouds unless they move really, really slow.."
"does not want more random db calls. no support."
"supported.i'd like the chance to duck into a star's corona to escape a pursuing ship's sensors... i'd further like them to take damage, for flying too close to said star.  i'd call that elemental, wouldn't you? "
"allow us to do it without having to jump into them again. its annoying and ive got no idea why this was removed apart from to **** folk off."
"not an alt but i like this mans idea"
"yup. why was this ever changed, anyways?"
"wholly agreed!why they ever took this out makes no sense whatsoever, and it was never announced in patch notes, either... a 100% stealth, um, nerf? what'd it nerf, anyway? it was just a surprise kick in the gonands."
"are we discussing making mining more interesting or how to solve afk mining??to make it more interesting is a good thing to make mining more active could also effect the afk miners though mining is one of the bases of eve's economics and changes here could affect the prices very quickly"
"as has been discussed in gd earlier today, members of csm are maybe impotent. this is terrible if true. if it is true, the mental suffering that such a problem can cause would definetly cause a loss of focus on ones csm duties. to solve this problem i propose that ccp give all csm delegates and alternates free viagra during their terms. i think that this would cause all members of the csm to be better able to focus on the task at hand.of course i realise that some of our delegates are female on my interwebz?!? , they may elect to take the viagra or not, or to pass it on to a significant other. i say this cause to date there has been no studies done that prove conclusively one way or the other the effects of viagra on female psychological sexual dysfunctions.p.s. ccp please make sure it is viagra and not cyalis that you provide to the csm, since i only own stock in pfizer, inc."
"aha"
"just because a single thread exists in general discussion, it does not immediately mean that the proposed issues are actually real. do you have any information other than forum tinfoil to suggest that the csm is actually impotent in any way? you don't have that information because it doesn't exist.first of all, two of the 9 csm members are female. they are less likely to be incapable of bearing children, and i believe that infertile would be a more appropriate term for describing their status. not that the details would get in the way of forum whining.second of all, have any developers stated anything regarding this issue? due to the prevalence of alts in eve i don't think that normal forum posters are reliable sources regarding the virility of the 7 male csm members. i would be willing to seriously consider this issue if someone such as ccp eris discordia or ccp saint were to comment on this issue, as they are the only ones who could have reliable personal experience in this matter. as far as i'm aware of no members of the csm are homosexual, though the members of goonswarm may be suspect by certain parties.please, use your brain before going on a whine-fest in the assembly hall."
"it took me 5 times to actually post this post.but i think this is a good idea. how much does viagra go for, on the black market? hopefully it can give me enough to buy a fanfest ticket!"
"hmm i knew i should have included the following emoticon at the end of my op:p"
"that and a whole lot of hookersedit: make that p0rnstars"
"are there icelandic p0rnstars? does iceland have a **** industry?"
"i know this topic is very popular, but still i would like to post my own vision of titan in this game. basically i have mixed, shaked and mixed again few ideas here and what i got is: titan should be mobile outpost - that is good ideatitan's dd is overpowered - this is truemy idea is to give titan: - full stack of turret high slots - add some sort of siege module - in this state only titan can use guns and dd. this siege module would also change titan into so called mobile outpost  higher resistances + higher repair amount per second + fitting + docking etc .this siege mode  or outpost mode  would create shield around titan similar to pos shield with similar possibilities. what would happen now? when titan enters battlefield, he must enter siege mode to use his offensive capabilities. now you have true behemoth on battlefield  with full rack of powerfull guns + possibility to create dd + possibility for smaller ships to hide behind the shield . but this behemoth is stuck on battlefield for some amount of time  siege mode or outpost mode should be much longer then standard siege mode on dreads, for example an hour . what about dd? well titan still can use dd, but once per outpost mode. dd would affect all ships outside titan shield sphere. now, why? because now you have tactics, risk vs reward. it would be risky to send titan into fight."
"bull. this won't affect looting times in the least.we can melt t1 loot into minerals and make isk out of them this way; in my experience, named t1 loot is not worth any more then normal t1 loot.retreat to where? i'm not going to waste my time flying around between waypoints or exiting and reentering missions because he 'got away'. this isn't wow, it's not like we have the ability to simply follow our targets if they run away.why would i want to pvp against npcs, when could pvp against players?-could break all missions like level 5s are broken.no. it won't work. please try to think about how missions work.missions have awards based on the difficulty of the mission, creating a dynamic spawn system would reward people greatly at times, when they get an easy spawn, and not at all when they get a difficult spawn. and without having a clear idea of what the hell is coming, you don't have a chance to decline the mission. i don't find them soul destroying, if anything, i find pvp soul-destroying, perhaps we should change that"
"if there's less loot, then there's less ships to fly between while looting...depends on meta levelretreat as in they're not there anymore. because pvp loses isk whereas missions give you isk?level 5s aren't broken. holy **** you mean that people wont be able to know exactly what they're up against? ...seriously, how is this bad?oh, and there's nothing wrong with sometimes having an easier spawn and sometimes having a harder spawn. exploration is entirely luck based, much moreso than mission running ever could be.eve is a pvp game. static, non competitive isk faucets break the spirit of eve"
"low-end named t1 loot perhaps, but high-end named loot is often 5-6 times as profitable or much more than it's unnamed t1 counterpart. unnamed t1 webfiers and best named webifiers refine into the same minerals, but the best named sells for close to 1 million isk. you actually miss out on a lot of potential income if you don't look for good loot.please read the entire suggestion before responding. once they retreat they're gone, you don't go around chasing them. the point is that you are rewarded by preventing them from retreating by obtaining more loot and bounty, while alternately you could force them to retreat and complete the mission a bit faster. it gives you a decision to make - currently missions have no decisions in which the answer is anything other than obvious. kill ships in order of bounty, collect loot, complete mission.this statement doesn't make much sense...it's not possible to pvp against npcs...thus the \"player verses player\" part. the differences between reasons for pvp and pve are large enough that you already know them.if you have any specific reasons why it could \"break all missions,\" let me know. general statements aren't very insightful.again, i'm not sure you read my entire proposal. obviously there would be a limit so you didn't end up fighting 100 frigates or a dozen battleships. and knowing exactly what is coming is one of the things that make missions boring. i really don't see how this factors into anyone's argument. you just seem like you oppose this on the grounds that it will make your mission experience less predictable, which i could see people opposing if they only ran missions to make isk quickly. but i think it would be better for the overall health of the game.if you want we could make missions completely predictable, just accept the mission and undock and you explode if you don't meet the minimum tankable dps. your reward could just be dependant on your dps and be calculated after you spend half an hour outside the station, but i want to actually create isk earning mechanics that require more thought and are more enjoyable."
"like mining? no, what you want to do is turn an already working system into some pseudo-pvp for your own enjoyment. rather then trying to improve the missions, you want them to be more frustrating, and require more people."
"not really, as you will still have the wreck to salvage and the wreck will contain 1 named item instead of 1 named and 3 t1.the difference would be select and drag instead of select, ctrl-a and drag. so automatically lost?"
"i'm sure you're the minority in thinking that missions wouldn't be more fun with the proposed changes. mindless, predictable, noncompetitive isk faucets aren't in the spirit of eve..at least if they net as much as level 4 missionrunning does.fewer wrecks will have loot, though.yes"
"in spite of what you claim, missions are hardly isk faucets, and some missions are downright mean. not getting the whole 'salvaging' part, are you?"
"supported. i cant stand missions. the only reason i am supporting this is because it might make them more dynamic."
"nice, if these changes were implemented i may actually run missions again without falling asleep on my keyboard./signed"
"last night i was running a level 3 mission against rogue drones - was going to be my last mission of the day as it was about half past midnight. i aggroed the room with my bs, and while waiting for the room to fully aggro and come to me for a nicer salvage range, i drifted off asleep. woke up a few minutes later to find myself sitting in the middle of a pile of scrap metal, the rogue drones all smirking at me. i had neglected to fully switch on my tank before the sandman came.embarassing, to lose a ship capable of soloing 4s to a handful of level 3 rogue drones, but perfectly illustrates the point of how dull missions can be ; . that catnap cost me 60 mil isk after insurance and refit. an expensive few minutes of dreaming - i can't really say it was worth it ; "
"mining is a different issue, but i'd love for it to be more interactive as well to be honest. what do you mean \"for my own enjoyment?\" i think that most mission runners would like missions to be more dynamic. i can only represent my own opinion, to be honest, but i'm not just trying to make things more fun for me.why would i want to do that? i spend a good chunk of my time running missions solo. i want to give people options, not force people to do anything. it's against eve's general principle.oh hell no, that would be ridiculous - the only thing you'd lose out on is the bounty. i want scrambling to be optional and a tactical decision to make, not a requirement. and npc that is required to kill would not warp off."
"a lot to do to with playing till you are exhausted, very little with missions. i know people that have done that while part of a roaming gang. i am always doubtful of the people that say \"i want to make mining more interesting\". in the science and industry forum there is a guy that with that idea want us to play \"han solo dodging asteroids\" with a mining barge .mining can be made more interesting, and niphur in the past has give some good suggestion, beside other people, but making it a joystick game of avoid the asteroid is not it. i meant the target, not the mission. it would be interesting if the target was worth something extra  not necessary straight isk, could be lp, standing or decent modules  in the exchange to requiring special equipment or if it could be followed to capture/kill him. a change i would like in mission is to make them less farmable through respawn at dt. while i see that sometime it can be needed to redo it  accident happens , keeping a mission open a week and farming it after each dt is really a broken mechanism and one of the worst imbalances in my eyes."
"we have all seen radical altering of the game mechanics before, and i applauded ccp for the continuing endeavor to create a better more enjoyable game. that being said; since this kind of radical change is becoming the norm, ccp needs to serve its customer base better, and explore a method for characters to alter their past choices without being able to exploit that mechanic. like other changes to game mechanics, the ability to undo bad choices  or choices that were rendered bad of no control of your own  needs to be part of the evolution of eve.ccp needs to think about how to compensate players who have spent a lot of time training for a specific effect/game concept only to have them fundamentally altered. simply saying just train something else is no longer a reasonable approach  not that it ever was reasonable .for just one small example, characters who have trained to use a skirmish mindlink trained for specific effects. now some of those specific effects may be fundamentally changed. im not attempting to discuss the utility of an agility boost vs a speed boost, i simply saying that players that trained to get a speed boost did not decide to train for an agility boost. khanid ship changes are another example. again, this has nothing to do with whether the changes make the ships/mods better or worse; the point is that players made specific choices based on criteria that were changed, but were not offered any recourse to change their choices. this amounts to a bait and switch. i believe this point can also be applied to concepts like speed tanking, etc.again, i dont mind an evolving game, but i simply feel that if ccp is going to alter the game, there needs to be a mechanic to alter your character. perhaps you could train for a limited respec or something like that. options would have to be explored, but they need to be explored and explored in an honest and forthright manner."
"i don't see how you could possibly do this without either:1. leading to abuse on a large scale2. requiring large amounts of manpowerwhat if something involving production was nerfed and i made an argument that all of my production-related skills should be changed into something else? i have a very high int and memory and a low perception and willpower - by wanting my production skills changed into gunnery skills i would be effectively be unfairly gaining sp because 6 months of training in production skills could equal a year of training in gunnery skills. you could have an automated system recalculate this based off of the attributes involved but this still leaves problems with skills that may have been trained before learning skills.on the other hand, a manual system would require gms to handle each request individually, and assuming that only 5% wants to take advantage of this feature, an extra twelve thousand petitions would slow things down for the rest of us considerably."
"i feel like being a production character now, but it's ok because tomorrow i can fly recons and the next day i'll have fleet command v.no. specialization is final. it requires sacrifice and involves the minor risk of changes in game mechanics."
"yay! then i can respec shadow instead of holy for that big raid on black temple this weekend!eve is supposed to represent real life, to a certain degree. and among those reflections, is the fact that skills and abilities don't magically appear in your mind. and there is no trainer in the capital cities that waves a magic wand and makes them all go away again.when is the last time you woke up and forgot how to drive your car, how to operate the machinery at work, or how to tie your shoes.skills don't just *poof* out of your head, except during a bad clone copy procedure. and even then, the effects are random. there's no calling the operator, and asking for kung fu or how to pilot a titan."
"he has a valid point if a change is so large that it no longer resembles what it once did. the skirmish might not be a good a good example. if the skirmish was changed to only affect mwd or ab speed and not base speed or if rorq's bonus was changed to shield instead of mining it might be worth considering something like this  fundamentally different . a change that alters it only slightly i wound't support. i also would prefer some idea of how to accomplish this goal before i support."
"i don't agree, the car you drove yesterday operates in still the same way today as it will tomorrow.if overnight you need a different skillset due to someone changing the rules of the game, you should get the oportunity to get those skills overnight as well.could be done on a 'one time' change skill option in the charpannel that gets enabled after a major ****-up from ccp. some other mmo's have this option build in the game, so i don't see why ccp couldn't implement something similar, skills are only a table in a db and it should not involve manual intervention from anyone."
"because eve isn't like other mmos and our skill system does not work like that of other games. this will never be implemented it is a terrible idea."
"it's the only game i know where in the middle of the party, the rules get changed. this suxx donkeyballs. so if the rules get changed in the middle of the game, i think re-skilling your char without waisting time to start all over again is a justified request."
"i completely disagree with the intention in the title of this thread. this is eve choices have consequences, if you chose something that was overpowered and gets balanced latter, you had your fun now figure out what is still broken and keep on training.however i am for a buff to the time it takes to train skills though. my current plan on evemon is like 10 years long...."
"obviously, this is the first time ccp has ever decided to change the game in a way that hurt the fotm. nano users should get their skills refunded, because there was no precendent for fotm getting nerfed....none at all....except about once a year when a new one gets killed.really, you made a choice, you get consequences. no different then dual mwd, myrmidon, gallente recon, nos, etc...."
"funny thing though, the game hasnt changed yet. this will not be an issue once the speed nerf is adjusted after play test. don't worry about re-speccing yet. the speed nerf will come pre-buffed in the test mode before it is implemented on tranquility.refer to first line of the devblog..... again."
"this is not the first major gameplay change  nerf  which has been brought into the game, rendering thousands of players' months of training near useless, or at least completely different from why they were originally trained.still, respeccing is a bad idea for eve. though the gameplay does not remain static, your skills make your character and give the game that measure of permanence no other mmo really has."
"its not my intention to evangelize people to my point of view, different people always have different opinions. i would, however, like to make a few things about my perspective clear.1  this is a proposal given a growing trend, not a response to a specific issue. ccp has made significant changes to facets of the game before, and i doubt it will be the last time. i am simply arguing that if this is to become a trend, then ccp should consider options to mitigate undesirable side effects. for example, the khanid ship changes were rather significant and affected characters unevenly. some characters were entirely unaffected, while others had skilled to fly ships that effectively no longer existed.2  i want to make it absolutely clear that i am not suggesting some kind of painless option to totally reset your character. i expect that there would be significant but reasonable requirements for altering limited aspects of your character. tbh, i would be perfectly happy to see a limited option only become available in response to a major game change.i really dont want to dictate how skill reclamation system would work, that is for ccp to decide. ill give an example below just to give some idea of scope. i dont expect it to work that way, its just an example of what i mean by limited.3  i fully realize there would be significant difficulties to implement such a change, but i doubt the are insurmountable. finding an appropriate mechanic with appropriate restrictions may not be an easy task, but neither is creating, expanding, and balancing an mmo in the first place.just one rhetorical point to some of the comments made: eve is a game; it should be fun and as fair as possible. eve is not some kind of life simulator or replacement for real life achievements. i summarily reject any argument that appeals to eve being like real life. i could beat this point to death, but thats is a separate discussion.exampleagain, this is just and example to clarify scope, im not arguing for this particular method and mechanic.you want to reclaim skirmish warfare specialist  you have level 5 . to do so you must train a special reclamation skill and you must reclaim the entire skill, i.e. you cannot just reclaim one level of the skill. the time it will take to perform the reclamation training is based on the rank, level, and primary/secondary attributes of the skill being reclaimed.1- the rank of the reclamation training is equal to the skill reclaimed.2- the primary attributes for the reclamation skill are the same as the skill reclaimed.3- the level time is one level less than the reclaimed skill. in this example the total time to reclaim skirmish warfare specialist at level v would be equal to the amount of time your character would need to train a rank 5 skill based on charisma/will from level 3 to level 4.once you were done you would receive a bank of skill point that could be spent on any skill that had the same primary and secondary attributes. dont forget you lose skirmish warfare specialist completely  though it could be retrained latter if you wish .obviously you could not undercut prerequisites. anyway, i only provide the example to show that im not talking about some wildly easy way to just remake your character. i am talking about a method that would allow you to shift your character's focus within reason and at the cost of some lost training time.for example, this would allow you to trade mechanical engineering v to particle physics v at the cost of some training time, but it would not allow you to trade mechanical engineering v for amarr cruiser v in any way shape or form."
"op: no. just no.last sunday, after having a 26er of rye and a half-bottle of red wine the night before."
"anyway, i see that no one likes my ideaits all good, ill live, and ill give up on this thread after this post.that being said, i have to reply to just one post. it has almost nothing to do with the thread but i always get a chuckle from people who appeal to real life to justify some aspect of a game world. this guy may be trolling but there are those out there who actually think along these lines.so, when was the last time you woke up and you car was suddenly a snowmobile? the analog has happened in eve, e.g. a turret ship suddenly becomes a missile boat.when was the last time your body was destroyed, but your neural mappings were instantly documented at the moment of your death and transported at faster than light speeds to be deposited in a clone?when was the last time you flew in a ship with massively sophisticated computers that cant seem to do simple things like automatically lock targets without employing some kind of giant secondary computer system that is modularly interchangeable with a howitzer?when was the last time you plugged into a skill book that taught you how to fly a space battleship?when was the last time you were able to remove or install 1600 millimeters of armor plating on an entire ship in the blink of an eye? oh and btw that armor is modularly interchangeable with a target tracking system.when is the last time you were able to repair tons of armor in a few seconds using empty space and nano repair bots?it is a game, and things that defy the logic of real life are accepted all the time because it makes the game experience more enjoyable and fair. repeat after me, you are not a super cool, nigh invincible spaceship pilotyou are some guy  or chick  who plays eve."
"ok one last posti find it odd that no one bats an eye at characters being bought and sold so players can gain or trade access to new ships/mods, but everyone seems to think it is unacceptable for someone to be able alter his or her own character. where is the logic in that?alrightseriouslyim done now."
"first off... i do not troll... i just vary my input to threads based upon the legitimacy and/or the repetition of the topic. this \"respeccing\" for instance, has been talked about numerous times, with similar rejection each time.i don't think that your car has become a snowmobile. however, i do think there was an overnight recall on your transmission, and now you have an automatic instead of a standard. that doesn't mean you get to just \"erase\" how to drive a standard. those skills will be with you forever. now you'll just have to relearn how to operate the car with an automatic instead.spaceships, fittings, repairs... that's all game mechanics, as you pointed out. and given the setting 40,000 years in the future, entirely plausible. besides, it's the same with any mmo. some may have elves wearing armor and carrying shields. this one has frigates wearing armor and carrying lasers.btw... i am a \"super cool spaceship pilot\""
"no"
"alright. learning skills, as they are, suck. the skill system in eve is nice because it's flexible and you're always training towards something useful. personally, i'll be damn happy a week from now because i'll be able to use t2 medium guns. i remember the same feeling when i hit electronics upgrades v and could start training for my covops. working towards that next desired skill and watching as it changes your gameplay is part of what makes eve so appealing.enter learning skills. learning skills grind this to a halt. the choice for newbies isn't \"hmm, i do want to train to use this awesome new module, or get into a destroyer, or get myself connections to do level 2 missions...\" there is no choice, really. they're told that unless they spend weeks training up learning skills, they'll be gimped later on. as such, it makes the early part of eve, well, ****ing boring. yeah, of course you can stagger the learning skills and not do it all at once, but you're still wasting a ****load of time training some boring skill that only serves as a means to slow them down as they try to get into eve.learning skills flat out suck, and if i recall correctly ccp doesn't like them either. however, how do you remove them without making it unfair to vets who've trained all those skills up?it's pretty simple. firstly, remove the learning skills from the game. refund all points that people have spent into learning skills and put them in a pool that can be distributed instantly to any other skill they want. no sp wasted. from there, add 6-10 to all attributes for everyone to make up for the lack of learning skills."
"i support the idea/discussion currently going on"
"you really think they are going to count the 3/4 of the alts voting in your speed-nerf threads?i really don't think they will. especailyl when they actually check how many are a few days old :  and if you really want votes to count, then they are going to have to do a search on every character to see how old they are and if they are actually viable as a voter...just like real life.guess your vote will fail at that point"
"votes are per account not per character and are automatically counted numbnuts."
"nobody that plays eve has alt accounts."
"guess what, each one of those votes cost $15 usd a month. so why does the pro-nerf have 18 and the anti-nerf have 40? maybe because the anti-nerf represents the year+ playerbase that have dedicated to the game, invested billions in ships and implants and second accounts, and because the pro-nerf typically is made of 3-month drake and raven pilots that just joined the biggest blob alliance that would let them in. ever vote is valid, get over yourself."
"can i just remind you arlenna , that whatever changes ccp make to the game resulting from these proposed changes , the people who fly nano ships now and are engaged in pvp on a daily basis , will still be good pvpers and you will still be ****.fly safeo/velve"
"or maybe it is just because people are more likely to speak out if they have something to lose, and find it hard to consider what is best for the game rather than their own selfish interests?i think this nerf is a needed one, and i am a beta vet .. so your arguement isn't all that strong, is it?"
"i think the votes against are only higher because all the nano***s double as forum whiners..."
"i see no reason to believe that one side of the debate would be using alts more than the other. nano-lovers and nano-haters both feel passionately about this issue, and i imagine there's about the same ratio of people on both sides who will cast three votes per account instead of one. thus, even if the raw numbers are misleading, thesupport ratios should not be. of course, ccp needs to fix the voting system in many ways, one per account highest among them, but the vote is not illegitimate just because the system is imperfect."
"i'm pretty sure this is already the case - try and support something with one character and then try and do it with an alt on that account. i'll try it now, actually..."
"i is be alt."
"well, that's a little annoying."
"adjustments to research/manufacturing interface at pos, csms please bring this to the attention of ccp, we need some streamlining!hangar & interface changes  simple "
"well im gonna send this back to the top"
"luv ya jade."
"which one of you support the ninja salvagers? i'm having trouble trying to figure this one out, since everyone i've talked to seems to immediately turn carebear on me."
"i never really got that bit of the argument actually. surely \"carebear\" would be supporting a game position where people steal other people's stuff and because its hisec they can't actually do anything about it? wasn't i supporting a position where by the carebears in the op  hisec mission runners  could actually shoot at ninja salvagers if they were so inclined and thereby throw down the gauntlet for a pvp confrontation? why not ninja salvage some guys wrecks in a combat ship from time to time just to let them know what happens if you get tired of losing your dessy? just a thought."
"nozh is a tool and should be fired. so should whoever hired the asshat."
"this \"fix\" is too rough.such work is impermissible for game-designer."
"in b4 hurr zulubird"
"yep people moaned they got what they wanted and tbh even though im a nano user i just think its gonna be just as fun to change the way we play. the only people who will be affected are those who can only play one way."
"can't this topic just be locked already? it's pathetic"
"why is it pathetic? looks more like folks wanting some answers is all  although some could be better written  ."
"your post just shows that you are an ingnorant whiner who doesnt understand the game or doesnt have the skill to combat nano ships. i agree some speed mods needed looking into, but the nerf is way over the top and is a major blow to the minnie race, ive been playing eve for 4 years and i believe ccp are losing touch with what eve was intended to be, the last year i have seen some absolutly stupid ideas that ccp have tried to introduce into the game and it seems as if they dont even play the same game as we do. surely they must see how this will encourage blobbing and they must already know that the servers cant handle huge fights.pos warfare in its current form means masses of players are needed, this change will just mean that masses of players will be needing for other aspects of the game aswel, people claim that roaming was just as easy before nanos but that was when there was 20k less players on the server, jump bridges werent even a twinkle in the eye and cap ships werent dropped on every 5 man inty gang like today. if the patch does go live the skill involved in eve will just be dumbed down so much it wont be worth playing, ccp need to wake up and get some devs who actualy understand the game to start making the descions."
"the lot of you whiners have your tinfoil hats so securly welded on that you can't read what has actually been said in the proposed changes.here is a quick recap.1. current achivable speed breaks the physics engine.that's right, the speeds currently obtainable are causing program level damage. that means they will get corrected.2. gurillia warfare, that's the nano fleets or some succesful equivilant, will not be removed from the game.in other words you will still be able to raid in 0.0.3. there will be a month of playtesting before anything goes live.so get on the test server and proove to ccp that the proposed changes will \"wreck the game\". take a quick breather, castigate yourself for training the fotm. realize that nano isn't being removed or nerfed into the stone age, it's being balanced. a reason to fit afterburners is being added and the web+scram will no longer be instant death. you nano monkies should be estatic about that.the mere fact that mwd are nearly required modules shows you the current state of afairs is broken. can nano be countered? sure absolutly, can it be countered with a kill by non-nano? only if you have a ddd. all other nano counters end in the nano ships leaving unharmed, unless their pilots make a critical error.that state of afairs, while livable, is not balanced. so tuck and roll for god's sakes. if you want serious input on the nano changes you won't get them here. get on the test server and see for yourselves what they will be like. hell you might like it.-galan"
"i logged onto sisi briefly earlier to test out the blaster paradox this patch will create.deimos / t2 blasterswith the mwd change the web change, blaster-ships have no chance."
"really need to get some of the devs that moved over to work on emovampires back."
"yep, that means extreme speeds though, whereas the current singularity build is pretty much halfing the speed of all mwd cruisers. what that actually does at the moment is bring everything into killzone for amarrian laser boats and missiles. so what we've seen so far is a return to battleships online from year two of the game and an effective nerf on all small ships. not just the extreme nano performance that actually did break the game physics engine. its worth being informed on these things. its one thing to say that, its quite another to actually do it. and the reality is that the current nerf on speed is pretty much removing guerrilla warfare from the game in 0.0 sovereignty regions. this is the direct impact on removing speed-based evasion possibility before addressing broken sovereignty mechanics and fixing alternatives like black ops and distributed small gang objectives. this isn't news to us, and its why the csm voted 30 issues to immediate ccp consideration ahead of speed nerfing.no you really can't. in npc sov raiding will be \"hot drops of caps\", burn eden style cloaking gate camps, cloaking recons or large rr battleship groups. in player sov you can scratch the hot drops  cyno jammers  and largely scratch rr battleship groups since hostile jump bridge networks can instantly drop an entire regions worth of blobbers on your head while dictors, hics and bubbles cut off all escape. ultimately it leaves us with burn eden style cloak and gank tactics and thats about it - ravens, hyenas and sabres with falcon ecm support. -> guess what the next \"hot topic\" will be for extra points? well lets just say speed ships aren't doing so well on the test server at the moment. battleships are. insta-death = a blob of battleships/bc sat on a gate firing at your ship whilst it toodles away at 1500mps really. i'd advise you to go test this for yourself on sisi actually. warp a ship  any ship  into the ffa beacon with an active battleship group sat on the beacon and try and get away, then imagine this is 0.0 and as well as the damage they have a hic bubble and a couple of rapiers with multiple webs. perhaps you do genuinely feel that 0.0 sov regions should be impossible to pass. if so then fair enough, thats your point of view and you are welcome to it. but lets not pretend this speed-nerf will allow roving pvp in 0.0. it really won't.i'm afraid that is just simple ill-informed nonsense."
"i never suggested it wasn't \"worth being informed\". have you heard that they are pleased with the current results and plan to go live with all changes? that would be something to get up in arms about. if not, please keep playtesting and provide that valuable feedback. it also helps to post in leiu of that feedback and not with the constant stream of \"oh noes! !111 nano!!\" that's been the norm here.so the csm feels a change correcting a broken physics engine is less important than thirty other things? how many of them are breaking aspects of the game code?so here is the question, will the current status of nano break the intended sov fix? if it would then i imagine a nano fix would have to come first. again since we don't know what the final fix will be at this point panic is unwarented. and that necisitates panic? play it out, offer meaningful suggestions and quit acting like they are killing your baby.i'm not pretending anything, i'm stating the intended results direct from ccp nozh's devblog. ccp has a pretty good track record of achiving balance with broken aspects of combat, nos and ecm being prime examples.it's interesting that you give \"roughly half\" in one example and \"1500m/s\" in another. since when is half of 7.5km/s 1.5km/s? since in your example i'm jumping into the worst possible senerio, alone. i submit i ought to die in that senerio. with a cloaked pilgrim i might not though. here's an equally balanced example for you. take any straw man you want and jump into my burning barn. if you get out without being incenirated straw is clearly overpowered. nerf strawman. o really? i must have been sleeping the last three years in game. tell me then since i'm such fail. how do you kill a nano ship, without a nano ship or a ddd? unles the nano pilot makes a catastrophic error?i'm waiting, what aside from nano kills nano? not runs it off, kills it.-galan"
"understandably, people are going to be angry if speed is nerfed, and people are going to be angry if it isn't.however, the above statement argues against one fundamentally strong and powerful point put forth by the devblog, and the devblog can be explained by logic:ships that use nano builds are fast, decrease damage through speed, and are agile.nano builds are fundamentally flawed when combined with modules and rigs that make the ship faster than drones, missiles and turret tracking speeds.therefore,ships that use nano builds are fundamentally flawed, because when they are combined with modules and rigs that make the ship faster than drones, missiles, and turret tracking speeds, they markedly decrease damage and are too agile.the problem is in the root, many people say. the root of this case are nanos and other modules that decrease weight by a percentage. the problem is that if you affect the root, you affect the entire tree. every ship that uses nanos+mwd or other modules will be affected. yes ccp, speed does need to be nerfed a bit. the ships that rely on speed need a fix. but if the roots are to be looked at, one must look at what that'll do to the rest of the tree.this proposed patch will probably be one of the biggest in terms of impact, as it's effects will hinder, help and hamper hundreds of thousands in a very big way. this time, we have to get it right the first time.ccp. no ubernerf then eventual pump, please.players, quit the smacktalk and help out instead of whining.we need to look at this carefully.we need to look at this with dedication.we need to look at the future of eve's warfare.and if all comes crashing down in a conflagration of hate,we need to look at what went wrong.the future, gentlemen, is in our hands."
"all ccp need to do is reduce the bonuses ods, polycarbs and snake sets give to speed. doing what they plan to do doesn't just affect nano ships it will affect nearly every ship in the game. it's simp and does what they want to be done without screwing over close range boats in the process."
"maybe instead of a nerf they should introduce/boost a mod, drone,... whatever, that can effectivly be used against nano-ships. i mean in real life you wouldn't/can't make a technology worse, you would develop something to counter it. balance game, but with a forward approach.just an idea."
"part of the problem is the number of ways that can be used to make a ship faster. it gets expensive but the bonus is clearly worth it.this part of the probelm is being solved with large changes to the various totals possible when these methods are combined.if the goal there is to bring all ships to a new maximum potential speed an alternate solution would simply be to set a maximum speed each hull can atain. leave the modules and implants and whatnot alone but allow them only to take an individual hull so far. the remaining slots, no longer useful for nano, can be fitted with modules to make the new ship more dangerous. so you can get all your speed from implants and then have a tank and dammage mods in your lows.ultimately nothing is set in stone and it will be playtested extensivly so if you are worried get on the test server.the seccond problem is making the ab more useful. this is partially accomplished with the 2pt scram = no mwd portion and partially accomplished with the webber nerf.both will add an interesting new adaption to speed/tank ships. the main complaint is that blaster boats will suddenly be helpless.nearly all combat occurs within 20km. small blasterboats will need to be speced for speed so they can still run down oponents. they will benifit from not losing their speed totally when close to large vessels.large blaster boats can swap that web mid slot for a targeting computer with a range script. it may take more than one module but they will be able to get range. if they can't be made to work consistantly then play test, again, will show this and we may see an adjustment to the blaster falloff range.-galan"
"totally supporting this, would go into detail but op said it all."
"fw is a ****stain on the underwear of this game until all factions are included."
"even if they added all the factions to fw tomorrow, the issues being raised would still exist, just for more factions/characters/players. how about you take a chill pill and stop trolling."
"i agree with may of the ideas here."
"i support this idea!.if it was on the csm agend in iceland, what has come of it?.ab"
"absolutely yes."
"supported, oh yeah!"
"i know the game cannot be balanced as there is no such thing in a game such as this. i am only asking that they work to correct items that are clearly broken. they have added alot of features and i am suggesting that they take some time to place more emphasis on correcting a few things that are obviously broken [do not ask me for exaples just look through this forum, features and ideas, and other relavent threads] they also need to take some time to look over the games core codeing and see if there are any ways they can rewrite it to be faster and more stable."
"i think this is making mining much to complex. changing the asteroid belts to exploration sites would be sufficient, and i like the idea of a prospecting ship, it would definitely be needed to provide a reliable way to find belts to mine. i am not sure whether i like the idea of \"publishing\" the location of the asteroid belts, as people take time to find them, and do not want everyone just leeching off their work, but then again, it might be harder for newer players to get into mining without any exploration experience. here is a post of mine in another thread that i think could provide a nice change to mining."
"this is why belts should never be completely relegated to exploration sites only.when the systems were initially surveyed, they placed the beacons to make sure they could get back to the belts easier. that's why they're blantantly obvious on the overview.i don't quite think the solution to mining boredom is complicating the current process. i think it's adding more content on top of the existing.1  mineral rich, fast moving comets. while it might be more profitable to chew them up with your hulk... you'll need an ab/mwd to stay in range. meaning the challenge is balancing cargo space and mining efficiency with speed for pursuit.2  a modification to constantly having to find belts... is the idea of exhausting a location. why would a belt wiped clean suddenly appear full the next day? or why would a moon never run dry and collapse in on itself. heavily mining a particular system could drastically alter the ecology when moons start disappearing and pos have to pick up and move on."
"i'd have to agree with this, hence why i modified the idea to keep the existing belts in place. like you said, newbie miners do need somewhere to mine. what i would do however is remove the enhanced versions of the ores from the belts and move these to exploration sites. so you could go to a current belt and make a small profit off basic ores, or you could go hunting for better belts using the exploration system and make a better profit, thus rewarding you if you're willing to put in the effort to find these sites.sounds like a really good idea, more varied content is definately welcome.agreed. resource depletion should definately be something that people have to be aware of. hence why only a certain proportion of asteroids should respawn at each downtime as opposed to the current system where all of them respawn.as to moons, setting each moon to have a respawn rate as well as a current quantity for each mineral on that moon would maek things more interesting.for example:- moon x contains titanium and cobalt. both have a maximum quantity of 24000 units and a recharge of 50 units per hour. you set up a pos to mine the titanium, and succeed in keeping the process running 24/7. with these figures you extract 100 units per hour and the mineral recharges at 50 units so net depletion of 50 units per hour. you can keep this mining going for 480 hours  20 days  before the moon will be depleted of that mineral. you then trade over to cobalt for the next 20 days while the titanium rebuilds up to maximum.this gives meaning to the mineral abundance figure. most moons have this as a factor of 1, however a moon with a factor of 2 would recharge the mineral at twice the normal rate  100 units instead of 50 units . on one of these moons you could effectively mine indefinately as the depletion rate would match the recharge rate.having said this, this is a seperate idea and probably deserving of a thread of it's own."
"1- learning is a necessary waste of time.it usually takes a person two weeks to complete learning skills. in that two weeks, said person will have to learn more about eve and game mechanics than he will have to in the next three or four months of his eve-life. why is this two weeks important? it's the trial by fire for  allegedly  new players. eve is a cold world, it mimics too much of the real world because pilots are allowed to scam, cheat, steal as long as that particular action does not involve an exploit, or against the eula. about 60% of new players come to eve never make it pass the trial by fire. it is a good thing. look at the other alternative, wow.2- whining is human nature.you do it. i do it. he/she/it does it. quit whining about me whining.3- eve stands for evolution.  not the corp, ugh pilots in eve evolve everyday. from a frigate pilot into a cruiser pilot. from a cruiser pilot into a bs pilot or a specialized interdictor pilot. it's the core of eve that dictate the game. sometimes, the game reach a period of stagnant, evolution slows down. and we stuck with massive blob of hundreds of players, cold war between two powerhouses, alliance after alliance pour their resources in supercapital ships. but, somewhere in the galaxy, in some dark corner of space, one pilot come up with a tactic now widely known as nano***gotry, which involve small number of pilots fitting exclusive for speed for hit-and-run operation deep in the enemy territories. this cycle of evolution, this mutation has spread. most pilots adapt to this tactic, some stand resilient against it. most fail and whine, some succeed and hold their heads high.soon, nano***gotry will no longer be the trendy thing to do. this tactic will mutate to something else, for better or for worse. and the cycle of evolution continues to turn.this ain't burger king, you can't always have it your way."
"increasing the roidsizes is more then just adding more ore in them. if they were to do that, then prices on minerals would drop even more then they already have.i have no trouble finding any roids to mine. we set up our hq in a system with 12 belts and 1 ice belt, and there is always roids to mine. even in a hulk. altho some times there isn't enough for 1 complete cycle per roid, but then i just mine something else that is useful.i think you should get a fast ship, equip a survey scanner and do a tour of the nearby systems and you will find plenty of belts to mine. no need to go to low or nullsec either."
"as the title implies, i'm quite intrigued by the timing of this nano \"rebalancing\". with the establishment of the csm, we have been given the capability to raise issues and put them to the vote in the assembly hall.most people will be aware there are two threads on the nano issue- one for people who support the changes and another for those against.its safe to say that those against are presently way ahead in terms of votes. but does that mean that ccp will drop their plans? or at least take it back to the drawing board due to the obvious opposition to the substance of the recent dev blog?i guess the broader question is- will the idea of the csm and a more democratic process for taking this game forward prove to have been a charade? if ccp choose to ignore the obvious concerns of many players and push on with the changes regardless? for the record i voted against the changes, not because i don't think nanos need to be looked at, but i do think ccp have gone way over-board this time! "
"i was going to post to this on the subjects of invulnerability and balance, but as i don't pvp and my understanding of speed tanking is not even close to 100%, i will leave the field to those who know what they are talking about : "
"yes thats an interesting point.i'm the first to concede that my understanding of game mechanics is far below that of the devs. after all it's their job!  but i'm also often impressed by the knowledge of our player base concerning these issues. some of whose rebuttals in similar debates read like technical reports from some kind of scientific study!what interests me more though is whether ccp are going to be true to the democratic principles of the csm and listen to the concerns of many ppl over these changes... or not"
"frankly, i don't think this is a situation that calls for democracy. the point of the csm system is to bring concerns to the developers, not to vote on whether to reject proposed changes.it would be pretty ridiculous to run the game's development on a series of proposal-veto-counterproposal iterations. the playerbase needs to come up with solid recommendations and specific changes to what ccp has laid out - that's what the csm was designed for. unscientific polling is simply a distraction.i have read plenty of great analysis from players who are actually on the test server experimenting with the proposed changes and seeing what works and what doesn't. but what we need is a csm counter-proposal that specifically collects and outlines the findings of the players in an effective, simple and easy to read format.it doesn't matter how many supports an \"anti-nerf\" thread gets - that just isn't constructive and there's nothing ccp can do with that info except assume that it's just the standard anti-nerf whine and tune it out as background noise. if we expect the csm to have any impact on this particular issue it must be with highly specific and reasoned arguments, not with noise."
"i agree theres a danger to un-scientific polling as you say, and i'm not expecting ccp to throw the whole proposal in the bin just because of the uproar. that would be irresponsible. i'm just wondering if they will take the opposition into account. otherwise whats the point? you can't deny that ccp are attempting to introduce at least a basic democratic principle with the csm, and i applaud them for it. but i also feel that its over issues like this that the whole thing will stand or fall.if its function is simply as you say, then the next appropriate meeting of the csm will have to raise this with the developers as a key issue. if only due to the sheer number of people lining up on both sides of the argument .my point really is will ccp listen to the genuine concerns that people have raised? not whether votes in the assembly hall should be the deciding factor on game balancing. which would be nuts!"
"but what exactly will they raise to ccp? that's more my point - right now we just have these \"for\" and \"against\" threads that do not accomplish anything by way of generating specific feedback. the csm has nothing to bring to ccp at this point except the fact that many people supported an \"anti-nerf\" thread. what good is that?the genuine concerns can't be listened to until they are clearly and concisely expressed, and that has not yet been done. my point really is that the opposition cannot be taken into account until they present a clear counter-proposal. at present, opposition to the nerf is far too vague to be worth discussing. it has to coalesce into something debatable."
"the developers are obviously the people that will come up with the right solution to the problem of \"ludicrous speed\" in the end. they are naturally in the best position to do so. i wouldn't expect a player to be able to come with a counter proposal that would be as feasible as someone who is paid to do that job  unless they were a developer for another mmo perhaps, who happens to play eve...and who could blame them!!  but neither do i think it should be all or nothing. where a dev blog is posted and everyone just has to accept it without question. of course ccp are well within their rights to do this. but i for one don't support those methods. especially when a mechanism has been introduced that is supposedly intended to give the player base a real and meaningful input into game development.i feel that i should clarify that i have no particular vested interest in the nano issue. i have benefited from their use and also suffered at its hands. even though admittedly i voted against in this particular \"anti-nerf\" thread. i simply weighed up the pros and cons of the proposal as i saw them and made my decision. thats what does interest me. the vision and promise behind the csm. i really hope that the council is a success. as i believe a sucessful exchange between the player base and its developers, which lead to real improvements in this game could act as a positive example for other mmo's. none of which to my knowledge have a similar institution.i feel the csm represents a unique opportunity for its representatives to raise the concerns of the player base formally to game developers. then taking these concerns into account the developers can use their expertise to act on them. if the csm is reduced simply to the orbit of bug hunting and proposing minor fixes. i fear it will become a hollow process and won't live up to the expectations of many players who have become genuinely engaged in the process"
"yes but simply saying \"many players don't like these changes\" isn't meaningful input. and currently that is all the voting threads are saying. if the csm is to have a meaningful impact on this particular development issue, they and the playerbase need to quickly move beyond support/reject and get into highlighting the specific problems that are solved and created by the proposal, based on real analysis and active testing by the playerbase.i guess my point is that demanding action from the csm on the basis of the vague polls is not productive. we as the playerbase still have not yet provided them with real meat to work with, and it is still our responsibility to present something meaningful for them to escalate to ccp. a broad disatisfaction with the devblog is not a valid issue for escalation, in my opinion."
"if you read the threads, a decent number of the posts are actual argument, instead of just a thumb and maybe some swearing aimed at the other side. it's not all, by any means, but it's enough to sort of understand what the various opinions are on the topic. the poll is unscientific, yes, but it's the best we've got, and it's at least quantitative, which is better than the pre-csm method of conducting similar threads on eve general."
"i just don't think a poll of players, no matter how accurate, is a suitable indicator of the justness of a balance issue. it is an old saying that what is popular is not always right and what is right is not always popular.the way to impact a design plan like this is through reasoned argument, and that can be done without tallying polls at all  and i'd point out that that is the very purpose of the csm - to act as a 'filter' and pluck good ideas out from the background noise of the forums . the council members ought to be swayed by the strength of the arguments rather than the weight of numbers in a poll, that's all i'm saying, and i object to the notion that the nano-nerf issue is a 'test of democracy' for all of those reasons."
"i've been reading and contributing lots of feedback in the test server forum, and i've run across several posts from ccp devs stating that suggest they aren't looking for approval from the playerbase, but that they are instead interested in feedback.believe it or not, a lot of issues are being raised by players and answered by ccp already, in just two days.many of the issues brought up in the posts of those opposed are already said to being looked into.i've been vocal that i do not think it is the csm's place to oppose eve developer decisions despite explicitly stating attention! the modifications discussed below are all subject to change, based on player input and testing experience.this is a playtester issue atm. ccp has asked for and is looking for testers and feedback from the test server at this time. and if you look through the most recent dev posts, they are clearly quite annoyed by all of the flippant, unhelpful replies.no doubt the 100+ page of \"agree\" is not what ccp is interested in at this time."
"simple:bring in the team of tourney commentators  \"experts\" if you will  and leave things in thier hands. i would happily trust whatever recommendations they made over any csm member anyway.**edit**and would live with the results without complaining. but then again..as they actually know something about eve combat operations in total...i would rest pretty easy knowing the game wasn't going to be dumbed down further.i'll put that in my expanded bio."
"it's really good that you're highlighting this concern lavista. if i can make a bold suggestion - the csm should just refuse to discuss ship balancing issues, period.trying to collect all the ship issues into one document is just going to obscure the real problem in a sea of frivolous complaints. taking them one at a time and trying to determine which concerns are legit and which ones aren't is going to waste the council's time.ccp wants you to act as a filter, so i suggest simply filtering out all ship balance issues - the worst case scenario is that something legitimately broken with a ship doesn't get raised to ccp. but if you try to take up these sorts of issues, you run the very real risk of wasting time that could be spent on the true big picture items that ccp wants the csm to be bringing to them."
"lavista, this is a cross-post from warpdriveactive.com:i agree with you that the csm, in its current form, might not be the best place to deal with detailed, micro-level game issues like ship balancing. i think there are bigger issues for the csm to be concerned with - and *they* should be the focus of the council.when important political issues get raised by citizens in their country, they are discussed and widely debated by their political representatives and in the press. however, this is rarely at the level of detail of an exact amount a particular tax incentive should be set at, or the precise amount of money which should be paid as a benefit to one group or another. these details are worked out by the civil servants, the un-biased subject matter experts who are not part of the political parties. the people and their representatives debate the bigger ideas.i guess my comparison is pretty obvious: in my mind, ccp are the civil servants of eve; those with the detailed and  crucially  neutral view on the mechanics of a particular detailed aspects of the game - and perhaps with a better understanding of some of the wider issues a small change here or there may make.by comparison, the csm should be about discussing the bigger ideas, the wider-reaching aspirations of the player-base in eve.specifically relating to ship balancing issues; i think that the csm could usefully discuss a more streamlined channel as you mentioned in your post - but that you should otherwise have a hands-off approach. if you attempted to act as arbitrators between ccp and those on the forums calling for x or y ship to be boosted or nerfed, i think that the csm could become perpetually bogged down in those issues, and never able to achieve its full potential to look at the bigger picture.vm"
"vestik is right on - well said!"
"very well-written post indeed.but here is something, that makes me wonder: i tend a link to this thread, on the csm mailing-list. but it's only ankh who has actually responded. what is up with that?"
"they probably don't think it was worth posting out of lack of support. but that was a rhetorical question right?"
"hey how about this. -identify a thread that has adequate suport.-csm does not vote or debate fix of ships.-send it to the dev who works on these types of issues exclusivley, in a tl;dr format.  another words the guy that works on this crap day in and day out can quickly identify if there is a problem or not, and leave it up to him to essculate it. -csm is still representing the player base and not sending in \"niggling\" issues to teh devs that are expecting different content."
"one obvious question springs to mind. if ccp doesn't want to talk about balancing issues with the csm, and the csm doesn't want to talk about balancing issues with ccp, then why the hell did it get brought up in iceland? who put it on the schedule, and why? was it just miscommunication, and if so just address it for next time. and if it wasn't discussed for any great length of time, then the system seems to be working properly as-is. i don't want you wasting your time with issues that everybody agrees to be minor, or even merely unarguable. but banning balance discussions and things like that are really heavy-handed solutions to something that i'm not convinced is a problem. the csm exists to discuss all eve-related issues, not just the vision stuff. don't cut off a large swath of that just because it's inconvenient - de-emphasize it, sure, but don't eliminate it entirely."
"yes..just yes"
"yes, now please"
"those prototype models look freakin' sweet! also, seeing personal repair stations  like the ones you have to pop for those easy mercenary missions  would be nice so people without a ton of coin could still own a little piece of space."
"/signed"
"/signed looks the way it should"
"up!even a simple non 3d application that support, say, chat, market, wallet and the general character management, would be apreciated! :d"
"i agress with this. and have better resolution support. i have a 46\" wide screen 1080p tv i want to use as a monitor.when i try max resolution single monitor on my tv at 1920 x 1080 res, it doesn't display anything at all.it would be nice to use the tv to see space and my laptop can be used for all the other windowed information."
"/signed"
"/signed.support for quad-mon please."
"i like how the naglfar looks.... looks scerry, dark and mysterious.... i especially liked how it looked on the teaser trailers for the emp age expansion"
"give it a hull tank - 10% hull resistances per levelbulkheads ftw"
"/signed"
"sigend"
"/signed"
"/signedmy ceptor's are useless now. i could tackle just as well in a cheap frigate instead of having my uninsurable ship popped by warrior drones."
"against"
"against!"
"against!"
"it is clear to me that this is a hot topic.i was really undecided in this as a rule.there are many ways to counter nanoships that nobody really wants to do because it requires coordination and brains to do it.the arguments on both sides are very compelling but it is clear to me just looking at these 2 threads that the playerbase has spoken.looks to me like the majority is against this nerf so i will support this motion, that has no weight anyhow - ccp will do it no matter what is said."
"nano nerf can go die. lots."
"against !nerf speed ? why not. destroy speed tanking for cruiser sized vessels and above ? no please, not fair for those who can't shield or armor tank.make missiles the must have in small gang or solo pvp ? it's going to become the \"push the button it can't tank it anyway\" flavor of the month until the next nerf."
"too much, too fast and too many 'flow on' effects to missiles, web, scram and who knows what else if it is ever put into operation.good idea to reduce 'ludicrous' speed but worst implementation ever."
"/signed and stamped to iceland"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"ccp need rethink what they want. they try to control everything now. did they still remember what they said first?they just give tools they will give player a free space. so they want more now."
"against !"
"2/3 of the replies here are done by alters"
"against!!!"
"against."
"against."
"signed against"
"signed"
"against"
"signedagainst"
"dear player,we changed your loved mmog to hello kitty online.it<U+FFFD>s sink or swim!"
"hello kitty online is great fun!ok.../sarcasm endagainst"
"who ever came up with this nerf-has never played this game."
"nvm"
"against!!!"
"i'm against this nerf"
"against it."
"i very much doubt the people voting against it have actually tried it.it isn't the drastic nerf they are making it out to be.in fact, it is pretty darn good.i would have nerfed it harder tbh."
"i tried it. i voted against."
"i have tried it. but probably a lot of people voting against haven't. but i bet the same goes for people voting in favour. and i also bet that i have more evidence that ccp nozh doesn't have a ****ing clue about what he is doing than that you have to the contrary. using a vaga with t2 polys and a snakeset as an example of a setup 'with nothing special'?"
"well, caldari missile boats  except kestrel  needs a boost. :p"
"nano ships are too easy to kill. i never fly them but i blow them up all the time in slow ships. my last five kills are against nano ships with my buffer tank hurricane.edit: opps i forgot to get the support button fixed now"
"against the nerf"
"against ps.:bring more stuff ships and items don`t nerv the old !"
"against. balance it, don't change the game completely."
"signed"
"keep it up boys, poke your corp mates to voice their opposition to this garabage and hopefully it will get retracted."
"against it"
"against."
"oh yeah this guy hates it too"
"and me too, i hate ze nano nerf and the caldari whiners tooz"
"against."
"against."
"you honestly think that will make them want to reverse changes and walk away like they never thought about it?if you're that mad, you sir need to deactivate your account and take a step outside. it's a gorgeous day, the rabbits are hopping, and the children are playing..."
"against"
"against! i bet they do it whatever people say."
"so truebut, i vote against"
"im all for adjustments to nanos, and all for some of the ideas currently being tested, but in its current format i cant agree with it"
"support a nano nerf but not how they have done it."
"against"
"against definitly !"
"against"
"half baked ideas"
"!!!!!!!!!!"
"jajaja, /signed"
"against"
"against."
"against"
"against."
"i don't know how many players have more than one account, but what does it change ? you only have one vote per payed account."
"i don't think this is the appropriate way to wash the dirty laundry of requiem. you perfectly know, why tri members didn't join in that op. god, what am i happy to be back in tri."
"/signed"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against!"
"against"
"the nerfs in current fashion are completly uncalled for and out of line"
"the speculation on the upcoming nerf is ruining my profits .also the underlying issue of completly removing a viable tanking option speed isnt about running away its about engaging"
"against over powering missles"
"i support this thread. down with the nano nerf."
"nano nerf is badmmmkay?"
"i don't see why they need to remove content from the game."
"!"
"boo. nano nerf is a fail idea."
"the dev blog was complete nonsense"
"they'd better nano the nerf !"
"against."
"just say no to the nano nerf! as well as the web nerf although this doesnt seem to be the topic for that..."
"signed. worst nerf ever. not even scripts were this stupid."
"my choice of ships doesnt really include nano-ships, but i understand how they are part of game mechanics and how competent people counter them.no to this absurd nerf."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"against. totally."
"against.we need a viable small-gang high-skill replacement if we're going to change speed mechanics."
"against!"
"against!"
"down with the nano nerf!"
"signed"
"support this threadagainst nerf"
"against!balance if u please. dont take away!"
"against!ccp failed at nerfing the nanoes and also nerfed rapiers, webs, blasterboats, and a bunch of other **** too, there should be no nano nerf and if their should be one this isn't it."
"this."
"i am against the nerf. keep nanos"
"the nerf sucks for million of reasons, tbh to many to write them down ... eg snipers overpowerd, missile and so on"
"against!yay we got 25 more pages then the for so i hope we win! :dthe nanonerf will kill alot of ships i know there are diferent sollutions for those ships but we dont want a change ccp will loose alot of members now if this gets to the tq server."
"against the proposed changes"
"against"
"rock/ paper/ scissorsbreak the scissorspaper is happyrock is happy, until it runs out of scissors to killthen rock is brokenpaper is happy, until it runs out of rocks to killthen paper is broken.if ccp break their scissors, the failure cascade begins."
"worst idea after the script thingagainst!"
"againstis just too much, not only make ships slower but nerf webs as well?just for trying to bring afterburners into the table? geez..."
"against it all the way"
"eventhough im amarr and a carebear, this is too muchis a whole minmatar nerf, what else are the rusty buckets good for if not speed?just to make drones hit? or missiles?nerf if you need too, but dont kill the game"
"its true that nano's need to be nerfed and reworked but ccp has taken it way too far, instead of spending time to think up a way of balancing things around the system that already exists they would rather bash everyting with the nerf bat till its totaly unrecognizable and redo the whole thing and basicaly say screw everyoen who has invested time and isk into the current system. so against 100%"
"patch overnerfs so many thing it isn't funny. very much against."
"i am against the current changes proposed, but however i am not against a speed nerf entirely."
"/sign"
"i'm not particularly likely to create an alt, but the thing that puts me off the idea the most is what you've said: having to go back and mess with all those short-duration trainings.but how about a simpler solution: letting the chosen skill train continually until it hits level 5?that's crude and lacking in sophistication, but usually if a skill is worth training from 2 to 3, it is also worth training from 3 to 4."
"i love this idea"
"i've made extensive use of the possibility of \"dark training\", having been unsubscribed for 4 non-consecutive months in order to train 4 hardcore skillz from level 4 to level 5, in the 16 months that i've been an eve player so far.i believe i'm pretty much done with \"dark training\" now, but it has been a great option to have, and i'm sure that many players appreciate it. ccp should think twice before they nerf \"dark training\", although there's no reason to boost it by allowing skill queues to be utilized while unsubscribed."
"up!"
"pro nerf"
"going slower is no fun, but everybody going slower is more fun for everybody. game balance sometimes requires sacrifice..."
"people now can't knock my carrier off station. fully support a+++ please don't nerf carriers "
"support! for missiles : "
"moar"
"+++"
"oh yeah!fight like men again!"
"nerf it!but leave the ships that r meant to go fast such as interceptors alone! also leave webby's the way they r they be alright same with the warp scram/jammers"
"go for it!"
"support"
"/signed"
"support"
"yes!"
"all of you people who are voting for this nerf, do realize that everything that has to do with speed is being looked at to get nerfed, yeah?overdrives, afterburners, ship base speed stats are being lowered across the board,  some bs base speeds being lowered as much a 15%  you guys know all this right??just checking.....a friendly voice from the opposition.cheers."
"i am for the nano nerf, so - support"
"support."
"i am for the nerf."
"/signed"
"support"
"i support the nerf"
"fully supported"
"support"
"hell yeah !support!"
"i actually had a very long conversation with an ex-corpmate about how i was instinctively against 'nerfing' or any other brand of balancing. i went on to say that i'd be joining him in opposing the speed-nerf. to be honest, my resentment stems from the absolute castration of the arazu. due to 'balancing' they made it a cloaking cabbage that's only ever used for sitting at the back of the class wearing a dunce's hat in recon gangs or scouting the opposition and staying cloaked as they slaughter your gang. damps? yes i'm afraid they are sir, very damp indeed, try a kleenex.the point of mentioning this was that i've always been of the impression that 'nerfing' causes far more issues than it was ever designed to solve and compounds issues of balance. its possible to find a use for the arazu you just have to be prepared to look for a while and its possible to beat a gang who are loaded with falcons when you yourself have none, you just have to be prepared to think a little and try some off-the-wall set-ups. to use a well-worn eve-cliche, adapt or die.the problem, as so well-stated in the blog  best i've ever read , is that adaptation meant getting nano'ed up yourself to the ultimate boredom of all. how many times have you seen 'no-mwd = death' in set-up thread's here or on shc? aximoatic? yep, carved in radon-spewing granite for us all to read for posterity. speed counters speed, so we're all in inties, hac's, recons, ea frigs and if we're really cheap cruisers. battleships? only for specific engagements, in one of my old alliances their use was banned. yep, battleships were banned for being 'fat-arsed barges'.so here's me voting yes for the very well-reasoned changes.just un-nerf the arazu while you're at it.no-one likes flying a cabbage."
"support in general"
"support"
"i support this!"
"support : "
"i'm for it. i've give my reasons elsewhere so i won't divulge, plus i'm sick of these threads so i'll leave it at this one. i think the nerf could be less severe, polycarbs, snakes, and nanofibers being the main three items that actually needed the nerf. i'm not sure about the rest. but i'm glad something is being done about the issue."
"yes, while the implementation will need balancing and the details ironed out, the concept is solid and will provide a lot more ability for tactical fittings. with lower-powered webs, larger  turret, and hopefully missile  ships will actually require support to take out smaller ships. which in my book is definitely a good thing."
"oppinion changed."
"for."
"support"
"support"
"it's good for eve. i support this."
"/signed"
"supported. i'm all for more variety of play styles in any game. when one set up works too well, everyone starts doing the same setup to keep up. less speed tanks = more variety."
"need nerfed"
"support"
"about time, i support."
"i support."
"supported"
"all for"
"support"
"needed a nerf"
"support!"
"support"
"great nerf."
"i support this."
"yes nerf it"
"bye bye tri"
"pathetic legion will dispand ?"
"it's about time.ar"
"make it so!"
"as long as hulks are still more efficient that's really not such a problem. support to capital mining module  but no support to capital ship as suggested by others, it is stupid "
"supporting a chribba thread."
"this made me giggle : "
"i would totally eliminate the local-intellychat. if you want to see people billions miles away, you have to scan for it! take a recon, place some scan-tower that spread that intellgence infos to your corp or ally. but if you roam in the wild, you have to risk.why i can't see rats in belts from the stargate? or i can't see complexes without scan for it? so i can't see people in system if their ships aren't in overview-range or scan range  if i scan ."
"a big no for this ideaso now you want to turn this game into who has the most time, the most people at the time to enjoy the game?"
"ok, here is an idea  which has been stated over and over again . if this is implemented, i would expect:the ability to put system scanner modules at poses without sov.that the ship scanner showed only ships that have pilots in them and some kind of iff system where you could \"ping\" a ships iff scanner, and it would return \"friend\" for blue or \"unknown\" for neut or hostile.local beacon counter  ovbiously  because a soverien power over a system with sov controls the gates, their members should have an accurate local channel showing everyone, since they control the gates and they should know who is in a system anyway."
"i love this idea. i fully support removing local as an intel tool, and replacing it with more active means of gathering intelligence. ganking someone in your system should be about just watching local for an arrival, and keeping an eye on your six should have more involved then popping a cloak every time an unknown pops up.moving the local info into constellation chat is just a step in the right direction, as long as i'm allowed to close both."
"it is so simple to fix local, without getting rid of it completely.make local chat a \"recent speakers\" channel, instead of an \"immediate\" one.then you have a total count, but the only faces you see are those that speak. you can still gab with all your friends... but you'll have no idea that some outsider is about unless they choose to start gabbing too."
"i think nobody should be visible to you in local chat unless they either speak in chat  thereby breaking radio silence  or they are directly in the same grid as you. the idea of me knowing who's jumping in and out of the system while i'm sitting in some belt so many au away is pretty unrealistic."
"agreed."
"the ability to research up t2 bpc's from invention should be good.no to creating t2 bpo' - this is what invention was to get rid of. more building slots on a character - will need more building slots in stations - though i'm all for mega advanced mas production as long as you have advanced mass production @ 5"
"supported."
"after reading over everything, it looks like people are pretty convinced that custom ships are a good idea.i'm not saying they aren't, but how would this change the market?personally, i'm not a fan of contracts - and as it is, you can't see which rigs are installed in a ship when its contracted to you. that said, i think that the market will need to be overhauled in order to accomidate the variations of each ship. if they are as customizable as some of the posts suggest, one dominix could have literally thousands of configurations. obviously we don't want to open up our market window to see a listing for each one of these different variations under ships->battleships->gallente->dominix... so how does the market get fixed to handle it?"
"qft... i don't think i could have put this more eloquently myself."
"*i want to expand the specialization further by making a char can only have one specialization skill. if players want to learn a new spec skill, the previous learned spec skill will be removed. i hope this will diversify the industry and enhance the 'niche' market.*time to consider removed t1 loots and replaced it with resources. alloy loot for t1 loot, named bpc for named loot, and turn everything into players produced market."
"i lend my support to this initiative.i know they are working on it, but they need to put more effort into fixing this key problem and less into adding new content that requires more large subsystems to tax the server. new content is great, necessary even, but not at the expense of server performance problems that prevent the grandest of all pursuits in eve, fleet warfare."
"praetor ... can i have my thesaurus back now please?you are right in everything you say, but like others have said, its not like ccp are unaware. what does frustrate the hell out of me though is the fact that they  ccp  are working on things like ambulation which can only put more stress on the servers and therefore increase lag even more.if somebody wants to walk around ... then let them do so in wow  yes i said it  ... i prefer my pixels in space.ccp have certainly come up with some good lag reducers and have been flamed for it before people came to appreciate the benefits ... we can all live in hope that they have another such ace up their sleeve."
"ccp if you would like to continue graciously accepting my money every month i want a playable game, and when you get into a fight which your game allows and from all appearances is designed for, and then you either spend the whole time staring at empty space, or disconnect and spend that time staring at a login screen it really seems like im not exactly getting my moneys worth here. in my option the situation is clear, instead of giving us an update that clogs up the server with empire fighting hows about you spend all that money and time you spent developing that and implementing something more worthwhile to the thousands and thousands of people that live in 0.0 and fight vastly more meaningful battles. now i dont expect lag to go away next update, but when you dont even load the field or when fc's dont want to take their fleet against the enemy because the lag would be so bad that it would turn jumpgates in insta-loose machines, there is clearly more of a problem with the game than ships that can go really fast.ccp please get the game working to the point where we can actually engage in the types of fights that 0.0 calls for, then add more to the game."
"fleet battles are partaken in by a minority of the playerbase, and lag is basically the most difficult problem there is to fix. also, fleet battles as they at the moment wouldn't be that much fun even without lag. flying around in blobs shooting one target at a time?it would be nice to have no lag for these battles, but its not going to happen most likely.both lag and fun issues would be  will be? - see fw  fixed by making the most biggest fleet battles pointless by changing mechanics."
"reduce lag. i want to see fleet fights like this in evenow thats what i'm talking about"
"no new content until lag is at least improved. doesn't do any good to have piles of new shiny ships that die before your screen even loads."
"thanks for all the kind and critical words. both are absolutely greeted with sincerity and gratitude because this is an issue that affects all of us and drives deep into the core of eve's future as the world's preeminent single-shard mmo.it was brought to my attention in another forum that i left out a suggested solution to the lag issue involved with these ever increasing massive fleet battles. i deliberately didn't include a suggested fix here to avoid having this thread descend into a debate of what is and is not technically feasible within the constraints of ccp's budget.i believe that ccp's initial shortsightedness in the early years of eve lead to the current lag fest that occurs on a daily basis, although i admit their efforts to correct the situation have resulted in some improvements and are truly herculean however they are band-aids. to scale eve to the size it needs to be and what it will become in the future will require totally new thinking about mmo software architecture and hardware deployment.i wrote a plea of emotion to engage us in our passion for what we love  eve online. sometimes you need to appeal to people on an emotional level to feed the process of change. motivate a man's soul and he will move accordingly.the hardware industry, specifically the oems who build the servers eve  and the rest of the world for that matter  uses based on intel and/or amd processors have let us down also. many providers robust industry applications the world over are lulled into believing that the next thing will fix their performance woes. we believe in the almighty predictive powers of moore's law to save us from our prior sins of inadequate programming based on flawed assumptions and poor planning for future expansion.moore's law doesn't specifically say processing power doubles. what gordon moore said was that; that the number of transistors that can be inexpensively placed on an integrated circuit is increasing exponentially, doubling approximately every two years. it is a common mistake to misinterpret moore's law and assume it gives us a free ticket to doubled processing power every two years or so. as wonderful as that would be however, this just isn't the case. processing power is also a function of the software doing the processing on the hardware transistors.this is where i completely agree with how the current status quo came to be. ccp definitely planned to be able to forklift upgrade their hardware when new cpus became available and just load the existing eve stackless python implementation on the new servers. eve was conceived as a serially threaded application on a scalar processor architecture. when at it's very conception as a massive single-shard should have been built as as an hpc application with dynamically linked threadlet  microthreads  within a highly parallel stream processor architecture. in ccp's defense though there are many new concepts and capabilities today that didn't exist when they conceived eve. ccp has had to bootstrap their way to success with eve and unfortunately in this business arrangement you cannot build out the best from the very beginning, so this current dilemma is completely expected in some ways.planning to do forklift upgrades is an understandable misstep, because nobody really wants to re-write their software all the time, it's expensive and time consuming. however ccp didn't plan perfectly for eve's massive growth and the subsequent node scalability necessary for players converging on a single system  node ."
"at the same time they have subtlety pushed us to higher and higher concentrations of players participating in fleet battles through additional features and functions. case in point, view the flash graphic at the top of the empyrean age feature page;"
"i like your vision, and i imagine that ccp shares it. i'm just rather fatalistic about the whole thing."
"up!"
"up!"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/not signedit is part of game mechanics"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"agreed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"corp trief?"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"k"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed !!"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"i've never experienced my drones bumping me out of allignment during warp out. good to know about the problem. seems like the elimination of collision detection would solve at least four problems1  drone clumping.2  ships being bumped by the drones.3  computing resource drain by the drones in calculating their individual collision avoidance.4  drones navigating around obstacles, such as structure and asteroids.not much to dislike there. perhaps it's time drones were able to partially phase out of normal space to allow them to pass through things, including each other. although you'd still have to be able to shoot them. that would only leave the problem of willful drones going their own way against orders.windjammer"
"support drones need to work as intened"
"i fully support this.the beauty of eve voice is that you do not have to exchange server information cos its liked to the chat channels. this is extremely useful when working with allies in factional warfare. people who say idiotic statements like vent/ts > eve-voice have obviously never engage in joint operations and therefore cannot speak on the matter.having fc'ed a number of op's with people outside of corp/alliance i know that it is extremely frustrating to spend the majority of your time revealing otherwise sensitive information. beyond this it is the worst nightmare of every fc to disconnect and not be able to tell the fleet to continue without them. therefore it is essential that an external client should be made especially since the only real reason for integration in the first place was to support the original moneymaking scheme."
"should have to stay in a corp for atleast 24 hours imo, except maybe npc corps."
"i completely agree, i wasn't online for the war, but from what i've heard its a total exploit, and rediculous."
"the suggestion of a per player war flag, perhaps as kills rights during a war, sounds like a pretty good solution to the situation. that way, you get to streamline the application process, allow for quick transfer of players from corp to corp, and solve this issue with warring exploits. that being said, i completely support the cause."
"i support the op."
"i agree with desert viper."
"i also completely agree with desert viper."
"i agree with desert viper, this is an exploit."
"i agree this is an exploit."
"i agree total exploit."
"this is what i would like to see. the problem with this \"exploit\" is the complete surprise attack that can happen when an application is accepted and the guy next to you can become a war target at the time of his choosing.having to dock to accept the employment offer would definately fix this."
"i like these ideas. i'm interested in making the titan a more tactical instrument. however, i'd like the value and/or impact to continue to justify the large investment required.i would like to see the doomsday become a defensive aoe effect with reduced or diversified damage. the range should be enough to be meaningful. i would select 200km  and certainly not full grid . let's change the cooldown to 5 minutes. we need to make it a challenge to take one of these down.i'd like the offensive weapons to be tactical in nature. my favorite idea at the moment is to create a siege jammer module  only for the titan . while activiated, no capital ships on the grid may go into siege or triage mode. so, the effect is that you can protect your pos from capital blob death. at the same time, you have to scramble and stay focused to prevent the titan from going down as well. these effects might result in more interesting fleet fights. i know that we already have blob issues. really though, i can't think of a suggestion that would eliminate that. so, if we have blobs, let's make them deal with multiple concurrent objectives. more tactical options and strategies will add diversity and interest to the fleet engagements.cheers m8s!"
"yes, a solo player with the work of hundreds to produce and maintain even one titan."
"actually, why not make titans a anti-bs capital. using doomsday becomes like s seige mode gives it massive tracing/sig res/exp velocity etc bonus making it able to fight bs's though hics can go under its guns.just about everybody wants to see titans in the front line fighting so what about that?otherwise a ew titan is just a capital sized stealth bomber using ew bombs"
"yes, we need moar sheepz not able to hit stuff. we dont have that already."
"i agree that the titan dd in its massive dmg + huge range version, and coupled with the tactic of deploying multiple titans, is overpowered.i dont disagree with the proposed changes, but in order to support the idea i would like to see it more thought through / refined.expanding on your idea, maybe more specialised effects, not neccessarily linked to race of titan  as it already gets racial bonus , but maybe link those to titan modules  like siege mods  so that every titan pilot can decide to do these new effects, but maybe one titan can do a certain effect  e.g. your proposed energy neutralization  a little bit better than the other titans. this would not only open the possibility of future module balancing / introduction  without entirely changing the ship itself  but also add some options to fitting titans i guess. one of those titan modules could very well be a dmg titan mod, meaning the dd is kept in a certain way, but in future it needs to be focused on one hostile ship  maybe with a limited aoe that could be used vs bs blobs that warp in all together to the same spot .nothing to do with your idea, but even that the dd is overpowered, if it gets removed in its current version, the defensive capabilities of a titan need to increase quite a bit. in order to not only make them viable to stay on the battlefield and to use whatever new offensive options they get, but also to ensure the investment that was needed for all those titans that exist already."
"you're right, it doesn't have to be racial by titan. how about making it so any titan can use any one ddd? and yeah, more than 4 of them isn't a terrible idea either."
"titans need a massive boost to their guns, to where 6-7 guns would do around 5-10k dps, and be able to track very slow bs, then they need their doomsday changed, the ideas here are a good start. if it was viable to fit guns instead of smartbombs, if committing a titan to a battle meant you not only get his bonuses, but he's actually useful beyond his dd, if hotdropping a titan right outside of a pos shield meant that you were going to lose dreads, then the titan would begin to be used how it should.... like the biggest ugliest mother****** ship out there, one you dread seeing warp in ontop of either your dread fleet or bs fleet... not because it could dd which you can sometimes warp out of, but because every second that titan is sitting there, it's doing massive damage to your fleet.problem is, this makes the titan vulnerable which encourages huge support fleets which means titans would create bigger blobs. as it is now, the dd is best for the game because the titan can act as a solopwnmobile, and not need 200 support ships to warp in and dd. how to solve this? i'm not sure : "
"like i said, giving them access to the good old-fashioned siege module is a good start. they have a pile of gun slots, and a capital tank. if the highs were ddd, siege, 6 guns, and they had cap and fitting to run 2x capital shield booster or 3x capital armour repper, they'd be able to tank a good 30k dps or so, and dish out better than 10k, on top of having a massive amount of ehp, a gang bonus like no other, and a crazy-awesome ewar effect. it'd be worth leaving them in the fight at that point. they'd still be killable, of course, and probably more killable than they are at present since they're in combat, instead of safed and cloaked , but they'd also be worth bringing to the table for reasons other than killing one support fleet per hour. it looks to me like it'd be a far healthier state of affairs."
"the doomsday needs to be replaced with something that ensures the titan is still deployed onto a battlefield and kept there for more time than it takes to align out, still has a unique and powerful role, but doesn't win a fight solo. making the doomsday scriptable would also add a new tactical dimension to a fight. it means titans are more flexible and would be used  and therefore destroyed  more often in combat.here are the ideas i like:aoe e-wara racial e-war effect that requires the titan to stick around to work. ideas that have already been mentioned include warp scrambling, mwd inhibition, webification, an ecm pulse and a neutralizing effect that removes a % of cap from every ship in range.weakened doomsdaylike a hybrid of current doomsdays and smartbombs. low damage pulses over a massive range designed to counter drones, fighters, frigates and finish off capsules. a real 'anti-blob' weapon that doesnt require a blob to counter it.focused blastthe doomsday acts as a special siege module, immobilising the titan for x amount of time but giving it a massive rof+damage modifier to its capital weapons. useful to turn the tide in capital battles and actually makes the racial titan weapon bonus useful.this script will require a cooldown before being used again.remote interferencesimilar to the siege module effect above, when this script is fired upon a target it does no damage, but prevents all remote assistance modules  armour, shield and energy transfers  being used on it for as long as the titan keeps the doomsday active. now the titan can be used to help kill other supercaps, but must be committed to a fight to do so.none of these scripts will wipe out an opposing fleet solo, and require the titan to be used alongside a support fleet to be effective.and as a side note, i would also like to see a new hi-slot 'repair bay' module for motherships and titans. this is activated and uses fuel akin to a clone vat bay and allows gang members within range to repair damage to their ships and modules.i did the majority of production for my titan. it's really not challenging to semi-afk haul freighters around via jumpbridges for a few hours."
"these are awesome."
"having a siege module for a titan would never work, simply because nobody is going to put a 50bn isk ship into siege for 10 minutes when it's very commonly known that any titan will die really fast to a gang of nothing more than 15 dreads. so either make a new siege module, or give a titan a bonus to cycle time and stront amount, to where the cycle is 20 or 30 seconds, and any titan can fit enough stront for 2 hours of constant sieging. make the titan commit to the battle, but make it possible to turn of his siege mod and have a chance of getting out if he gets hotdropped. this way, it's still going to take 30 seconds to a minute to be aligned out after he gets hotdropped, i think that's a sufficiently gaping vulnerability. to balance it however, again, the titan must be able to function better than any other ship, in normal fleet and capital combat."
"or give the titan another role bonus that says that siege mode doesn't prevent incoming logistics. might be overpowered, but it seems reasonable to me. also means you wouldn't need to change around the capacitor and stuff to allow it to have a bigger native tank.actually yeah, this is a better version of what i was saying above. thumbs up. interesting. i'm tempted to just say you'd use nanite paste from the corp hangar, but something along those lines is reasonable. stick up a new thread on the idea."
"at face level it sounds like a good idea. but in reality this is what will happen, 1. attacking fleet enjoys the light show2. everyone came fitted with cap boosters and a few 800's in the hold so they all restore cap.3. 10% of the fleet of 100 ships has a module with 25 heat damage, nanites applied4. continue to kill now nuetered titan. 5. since there is no reason to warp out, the 25 second warp recalibaration is not a problem.6. titan goes boom"
"titan would force a fleet to come prepared with cap boosters, nanite paste, and other special titan killing stuff in their backpacks, leaving less room for ammo and filling up power slots.titan would need a support fleet and could not be deployed on its own or it would get popped because it engaged a hundred ships by itself  makes sense, stupid titan pilot oh yeah, and we all get a light show how are these bad things?"
"25 heat damage destroys a mod until docked in station and repaired.... no amount of nanite past can repair a fully damaged mod from my understanding of the mechanic.as for the cap boosters, trying to rely on those in fleet combat is pretty tough for most standardized fleets. when you factor cargo, lag, and potentially multiple doomsdays, you're fleet is going to be very crippled while titans are still more exposed by this point.10% chance of losing a mod was added to create both a permanent advantage of a dd weapon in a fight and a bonus to multiple dd while not being overpowered.again, if you time it right and lead a fight with a dd as your fleet is coming outta warp, that can be a huge advantage.--------------xttz, i understand the reason for scripting, but i'm not a huge fan of that particularly being the dd weapon.... maybe just different mounts capable of going on a titan in general."
"modules have 40hp. the heat damage could be increased so that some modules are untouched, some damaged, and some incapacitated."
"when i reactivate yaay later today, i'll up heat dmg then... my mistake."
"no brainer proposal is no brainer."
"/signed"
"no ! you are destroying another profession. call it market trading, or whatever you like. removing t1 loots only helps on group, 0.0 miners. and more lps for mission runners is a joke ! nice way to even devalue lps even more. and building \"named\" items will make the mission runner income even less, due more of those items be available.basic economics with that one, supply and demand.remove macro / farmers from belts and missions and then you will see mineral prices raise. especially the ice market.edit: btw what you all are talking is massive revamp of the industry profession. it all domino's into each other. one thing will change another and so on. you can't remove t1 loots without some other \"massive\" changes to both industry and mission running."
"i used to ninja run missions out in 0.0 a while ago, loot was the only was i could build more ammo as most npc 0.0 areas that arnt hevily occupied have little on the market. with no loot the small guy trying to do a few 0.0 missions will have to find another way to get the bits and bobs for ammo.also im sure the bigger alliances dont need to what with the increase in caps being able to jump ammo out but smaller 0.0 alliances/corps with limited cap ships use loot to reprosses for more ammo, replacment ships ect.i dont care either way what happens with loot drops tbh im just throwing some info out there"
"i like /signed"
"yes, but perhaps you should make that reply in a thread where the proposal actually is a no-brainer. this one's actually got a lot of possible problems."
"i still maintain that removal of t1 loot will not do what people want it to do: it will not cause miners to make as much isk as mission runners  see this for an explanation of this assertion .so the question is, what's the purpose for removing t1 loot? is it so that the role of miners is clearly separated from the role of mission runners? if so, that's probably a reasonable goal to most people.before i support this i want to see concrete objectives that are the goals, rather than an \"it's broken fix it\" thing.  for example: while many don't like the upcoming speed changes, the dev blog did state the design goals clearly at the beginning. given those goals, the changes they propose would be the right direction. also, i'm not sure that miners can provide the current mineral demand of the eve population, so removal of loot would cause a massive depression as people can't get the resources they need when they want them. of course, maybe the apparent \"demand\" for minerals is mostly due to trading - it's hard to tell without more information. perhaps the miners are more than up to the task.so, the relevant discussion i'd like to see  in any discussion here in assembly hall, not just this one :what are the goals of the proposed change?can the eve universe tolerate the changes without reducing the current \"standard of living\" for the pilots?"
"that is part of the problem.. it's very easy for them to rack up on standing so they work the level 4s and flood the market with cnrsthe only thing you can do now is probe them out and steal the mission objective which causes them lost standing, lp, and time.they also get very upset : "
"while i don't look at the issue as acrimoniously against ccp as many on this thread, and i do understand that dedicating employees at ccp to hunting these guys down is expensive as are the possible legal ramifications, i still would like more action taken against these people.you can dress up whatever is happening to you any way you want, but unfortunately the root of the matter is not the vigilantes. it's you. you're getting ganked because you're not paying attention. people aren't going to have any sympathy the moment you admit you're windowed out of eve and expecting a safe, steady income flow. i usually don't support \"gank\" activity of \"innocents\" in eve as a matter of my own temperament, but i have to say they're right in this case.it's the same as someone deciding to afk in a supposed \"safe spot\" in a 0.0 system for hours on end while they go do something else  for whatever reason , then coming home and being upset when someone probed him out and popped him. or freighter haulers who autopilot afk warp system after system, then are surprised that someone scanned their slowboat and suicide ganked it for the goodies it carried.i have a problem with ganking when it occurs to players who are paying attention but are helpless due to game mechanics, lag, and similar things, but you could save those hundreds of millions of isk simply by paying attention to the game.yeah, mining is boring and it's so easy that you can do it while you're doing something else. but that doesn't mean you should."
"to fix farming  macro or 'legitimate', whatever .a  limit the agents avail to nuub schools  lev2q20 max . limit the ships that can be flown by a nuub pilot to cruisers or smaller, no mining barges, no freighters.b  limit agents avail to non-militia npc corps  lev3q20 . no freighters. mining laser output is cut by 30% as an automatic tax.c  war declaration flags are persistant per player, not per corp. jumping corp does not remove the flag  until the end of that declaration cycle . joining a new corp does not transfer the war flag to the new corp, it merely allows the new corp to assist their war-declared member if they come under attack  and thus gain aggression, but this lapses normally .neutrals, not in the war-declared member's corp, gain a war flag as well as an aggression flag for assisting pilots being attacked by a war target. that war flag is persistant until the end of the active war cycle."
"ive an idea to stop isk farmers. once a day you get a message that pops up on screen to get your ship into a station. theres a 15 minute countdown that flashes to do this and when this over another countdown appears on your screen and in this time no concord action or gate guns are activated. this will catch out the isk farmers as this action will be randomised daily and at this time pirates and gankers can have a field day  well 15 minutes  to kill anyone that caught in space with no aggro timer or sec loss.ok flame away"
"ok, i support much of what's being said in this thread, but the comment above is seriously off the deep end. how can you justify bringing the law into this in such a way? selling virtual items should be illegal? that's as asinine as any law proposal i've ever heard. fraud is when someone misleads another to purchase an item that they have misrepresented to be something it isn't  at least, that's one example of fraud . please, tell me how selling a virtual item for real money is fraud by any definition of the word? it's already against the eula to do rmt and other selling of virtual eve assets, that's as far as we need to go. eve has all the power they need to suspend accounts and ban players."
"my 0.2 isk. assume, on average, 50% of players will not buy isk, 25% are farmers, and 25% will buy isk. what you need to do is get the players who are buying isk onto your side. the simplest way to do this is to reward players for turning in rmt characters and reporting sites.ex. i'm flying my ship around trading when i get an eve-mail for a website where i can go to buy isk.maybe i report the mail, maybe i just don't care and delete it. if i report the mail, ccp determines it's legit and does something, ccp gives me some isk. even if they just give me, say, 1 million isk, that's 1 million isk i didn't need to make missioning, etc. heck, give me the equivalent of 1 milion isk in loyalty points with a factional navy/police force for reporting criminal activity. all of a sudden everyone reporting these people has an incentive to both make reports and make factual reports  as you only get paid if the gms find something .this takes more isk out of the economy than ccp gives me, so there is a loss of isk, but i get rewarded for caring.second: penalize players less for buying isk off of a site, if they report the site. this turns the players against the site. ex: i buy 100 mil isk off of some website, then tell ccp that i've done it and give them the details. ccp then can go in and say 'hmm, this guy got 100 mil from this website, and this character' and follow the money back, ban all of the characters involved in the money trading scheme, and confiscate the isk.they probably do some of this already, but now they have player support and a much easier time tracking people down. everyone who doesn't report the rmt site is caught, and the money is taken along with a warning from concord  or scc  and possibly a security status drop. the warning should read something like this:\"dear <player name>,as part of an ongoing investigation into illegal isk trading, an informant gave us information indicating that you acquired <amount confiscated> illicitly. these funds have been confiscated pending investigation. you received these funds on <transaction date> from <other transaction party>. for his services, the informant was given <amount of isk and/or lps and appropriate faction> as part of our informant policy, which states that any person reporting the existence of an illicit isk trading scheme will be rewarded if the investigation is successful. as part of the investigation, concord has lowered your security status by <amount>.the player  or players  who report the rmters are allowed to keep all of the isk  or some of the isk, or a percentage of all of the isk obtained, ask the economist which would do the least damage while creating a viable incentive .if you just target the people selling the isk, all you'll do is cause prices to increase because the companies doing this increase their risk. maybe you'll catch some people, but it's a drop in the bucket. once you turn the player base against the farmers  specifically the player base that uses farmers , you'll notice some gains. plus you make the players themselves afraid of not turning the isk sellers in  because if they don't, someone will .i don't buy isk, but i'm a bit poor in eve. if ccp would reward me for buying isk and using the transaction logs to turn the farmers in, i might buy a little bit and turn the rmters in. i won't shell out 20 bucks for ccp to do its job, but i wouldn't mind buying cheap isk if it'd help ccp catch those responsible. i know that a lot of people will argue 'no! we shouldn't have to reward people for doing this, they should out of the goodness of their heart.' i'd agree with that, mostly. the problem is that the people buying the isk aren't going to report it under the old system. i feel like this system encourages people to track down people trading isk illegally, rewards people for using ccp to handle the issue instead of taking it into their own hands."
"i've posted this some months ago in the ships and modules section, with limited success. please, take a quick look on my arguments.1  skilltimeactually, the time between the covetor and the hulk is less than 2 days  just exhumers iii . this is pointless. no one is actually flying a covetor, except for pricing reasons. i suggest to reduce astrogeology to lvl3 for the covetor, or increase exhumers to 4 for the hulk. this isn't much, just some 5 days.2  fittingall barges come with only one med slot. obviously to fit a rock scanner, as even a 10mn afterburner requires too much powergrid. i don't see any reason why this ship is beeing held so limited in it's options. miners are sitting ducks anyways. with a 3 med cov and a 2 med retriever, they could at least try to defend themselfes. i would be very pleased if the csm would bring this forward in their next meeting."
"i defer to chribba on a better judgement of the covetor's value for mining veld! but, i'm fairly certain he'll just tell you to get a revelation fit with m2/mdcm2s.do the macro miners still fly these death traps?"
"agreed on both points.for 1 , i think reducing the skill requirements of the covetor  rather than increasing the skill requirements of the hulk  is the solution; astrogeology v is one of the big time sinks that go into transitioning from the retriever to the covetor.for 2 , i like your suggestions, but let's be careful about making barges too capable for balancing purposes. it is and should be very dangerous to operate a barge solo in low- or null-sec, and we shouldn't be making it easier. however, the ability to fit an ab would be very useful: these ships are so painfully slow it takes ages just to travel from one end of an asteroid belt to another when they have to."
"thanks for your reply tesseract. i understand your concerns about 2 , but i don't see a big problem in more meds. ok, you could skip that rock scanner and make an ore overview setup, which would leave you then with 2 or 3 meds for pvp/whatever. what would one possibly fit? 2 is too few for anything you call a tank, 3 maybe slightly, but without those t2 resist of the hulk ...you could go with an ecm, granted. but you can actually do it as well if you dismiss that rockscanner  not checked cpu for this . to be honest, the idea for this came when i was high sec mining in my hulk, can flippers in frigs and cruisers flying around me and stealing my wrecks, looking for a fight. fitting a hulk with webber/scrambler and see if my t1 hobbies could deal with that frig would be interesting, but 100m risk? and not satisfactory insurable! in a 17m covetor with a scrambler and invu, i would have tried"
"/signed"
"ships held in the ship maintenance bay  smb  of capital ships are unable to hold cargo other than charges. originally this was added to force a change over from using hauling carriers to having people use more rorquals and jump freighters. it's now seven months later and this has happened. these ships are commonly available on the market and used to move cargo by those who need to do so. mineral compression has been nerfed severely, with the size and composition of many items changed. so now i have to ask - why is this annoying restriction needed?issues:a  while ammo and charges can still be held, many ships require other items in their cargo to be used. cyno-fitted ships no longer keep their ozone with them. many combat ships often change their fittings in space using the refitting ability of an sma/smb. they now need to rely on corporate hangar arrays and shared roles with other corp members in order to keep things like this outside a station. b  this restriction affects the anchored ship maintenance array at a starbase. i can't think of any logical reason for this beyond programming laziness. no one is going to pick up an anchored starbase module and move the ships with cargo inside them. sma's are however very useful for players in remote or unfriendly space to keep their ships. this restriction makes it much harder to keep fuel or alternate fittings without relying on shared corporate hangar tabs. if ccp wants to encourage pvp in more of 0.0 space, one of the first steps should be to make it easier to live there without a station to dock in.c  abandoned ships are much harder to clean up. previously if someone left old ships inside a starbase shield, a carrier could simply fly by and scoop them up. now it's a much bigger chore to clear away old ships such as rookie ships left in a starbase with 1 unit of trit in their cargo - every ship much be boarded and moved one at a time. this of course also applies to ships left in starbases from long before the cargo nerf.this restriction is no longer needed, please remove it."
"please do this"
"well stated, makes good sense. i support this proposal."
"voting for great justice"
"do it! ****!"
"agreed"
"yes"
"\"oops you have a cyno frigate that you want to scoop into your bay? too bad, it's got liquid ozone in its cargo.\"\"oops this ship had alternative shield repping modules to swap for its weapons, and did so at your carrier's maintenance array. can't put that in your smb!\"please change this. please for the love of god. it's stupid and it makes me hate you just a little more."
"devs, if it really bothers you then just change it to not being able to store a ship with more than 1000m3 in its cargo bay.please"
"yes"
"i see the reason for the change, but it was ham-fisted, and i'm not convinced it was necessary. either do something better, or just don't do anything at all, but \"ammo only\" is really not the right answer."
"trying explain to people, what counts as ammo, what doesn't, that stupid autoload of trit....this change would make life so much easier in dealing with dumb newbies/goons. having to go 2 jump bridge hops, to switch from being a priest domi to something with range.... big pain. leaving my fittings in an open access hanger is not a good idea either..."
"yes, i totally disagreed with this nerf on rp grounds and on the fact that it just annoys everyone, whilst encouraging nothing  jump freighters and rorquals are way more efficient at moving things than carriers used to be, so if you need to move lots you will continue to use these ships ."
"if i ever decide to rp an amarr slave trader and want to have a carrier filled with haulers full of slaves, can i? guess not /signed"
"completely agree. the reason for this change is no longer relevant, time to roll-back to the way things were. its a pain in the neck to load up my exotic dancer, booze, smokes, and my trusty copy of pax amarria onto my pvp boats each time i go out.*edit for approval."
"agreed."
"is there any reason not to allow this? i.e. right click on a scan result from probes, create bookmark. i don't really know the backstory behind probes, but presumably they give your ship coordinates to warp to so why shouldn't we be able to bookmark it? the results get cleared when you change session, so you can't dock and get another ship to warp to results. in the case of exploration, this means i either have to warp my expensive cov ops into a potentially dangerous site, or i have to leave it at a safespot while i warp in my pod to bookmark. in the case of player probing, it means you have to warp in the cov ops first which may get decloaked and alert the target when it would be more practical to go straight in with a combat ship."
"fixing the ghastly ui issues would make me happier than three icelandic girls spending a vacation with me...well ok, almost.why is it not done yet? when can we expect it to be done?as far as i'm concerned, the ui bugs are the top of my list of reasons to not login."
"i have a ui issue that is really more annoying than anything.the border of a window or dialog will not be where it's drawn and you can see that by trying to resize a window or even just close one.restarting the client fixes it but yeah, it's annoying."
"i've been saying this for months now. look up xaen's multi-year-old list of ui improvements, the vast majority of which still haven't been implemented. it's pathetic."
"do it"
"edit: this is just a guess i am not an it professional he's rightmy guess as to why it was removed. the ship you are piloting is the only ship that can be renamed, refitted, ammo reloaded, etc. all other ships are database items and by limiting the actions that can be performed on them streamlines server-client relations.edit: found a good reason for this feature"
"/signed.au contraire, fahtim... its yet one more example of something that got changed for no real benefit. you're telling me that renaming an item is going to slow down a database, versus having to initiate a session change associated with jumping into -each- ship?as an it professional with over 15 years experience in dealing with databases, i find this laughable that it was even changed steathily as it was. it not only makes the user work harder, but is a pointless necessity that could have been left well enough alone.oh, not even counting the amount of times the user has to click only to find scotty tell them to hang on a few more seconds. what? ridiculous."
"man i have no idea why they removed this but would be awsome to see it come back."
"i was just giving a reason as to why ccp did it, i never said they were stellar programmers like yourself. well i guess they are stellar programmers in the literal sense. or is that the figurative. trying not to be so post-ironic.changing my mind however b/c i'm sure this is a pain for the people running our free frigate program, didn't think of that earlier."
"i like this idea too, its not a game breaking change or anything, just an annoyance that would be nice to get rid of."
"yep, this has been ******ed since like forever."
"making mining more interesting to the degree that a human miner is willing to do it while paying attention and is encouraged to do so while paying attention in order to maximise his profits as opposed to the current system where mining is done as a semi afk activity at best.i realise that fluctuations on mining activity ripple through the markets in eve given that it's one of the primary sources for materials for the majority of items sold on the market  or should be, but thats a different issue . supply and demand however dictates that these fluctuations will be ironed out reasonably well.for example, i'm primarily a mission runner at the moment running right on the edge of low sec occasionally getting missions into low sec itself  surprisingly i've never had pirate trouble since basing myself there despite people telling me that every route into low sec is a multi heavy interdictor gate camp with no chance of getting through . however, say the price of tritanium went up to 4 isk per unit? well i've got a mining barge on standby to help cover that demand and would happily put missions on the back burner for a time to deal with that.and i'm sure many others out there would be the same, mission runners, traders, industrialists, pvper's, pirates etc. if the opportunity for profit were there, people will take advantage of it."
"on a general bad idea to make mining more tedious without any advantage for the player doing it, running around in a belt to find the 10% of asteroids that aren't barren is the worst part. want to have that kind of fun? form a gang, pick a belt, tag every asteroid with a number from 1 to 10 and then throw a 10 sided dice. mine only the asteroid with the number you generated. you will see very fast how fun is running around with your barge to lock the next available asteroid. mining with guns is already better in most situations, you really want to make it always better?"
"well if you want to mine a clearly marked barren asteroid then that's your business. however, if you read through my idea you'll realise that the asteroids only change to being a barren asteroid once all the ore is depleted out of them. when these respawn as fresh asteroids then they show as being mineable.want to be locating easy ore day in day out? don't strip the noob belts clean.besides, this only applies to the newbie belts. if you're in the position where you've skilled up into a mining barge then you take your mining serious enough to go hunting for more lucrative, untouched belts using the exploration system.ironically, i'm of the belief that mining with guns should not be as large a source of minerals as it currently is. hence why i supported the idea of removing t1 loot drops and the idea of adding t1 components to the game.mining should be the source of minerals.npc rats should be the source of components.both should be needed for production thus making both roles equally important in the production chain."
"i support the op's idea and the direction it's taking, but i would also like to add my support for the addendum i quoted above. these additions should add extra value for those who choose to make use of them, but they shouldn't be mandatory."
"you are really naive and haven't really read my example. 1  so long as veldspater stay the basic mineral for tritanium it will be mined by people that need tons of tritanium, independently if it is a noob mineral or not. it was mined when mining omber and kernite gave x3 or x4 times the isk of veldspater, it is mined today that it is the best high sec mineral. 2  i got that your not barren asteroid are identifiable at range, the point is that they will not be near each other, so you will need to move from one to the other  probably you don't know how the tag work, so: they are visible if you enable the relative column in overview, the proposal was to get the feeling of moving from 1 not barren asteroid to the next . with your idea it is almost guaranteed that there will not be a second not barren asteroid within your stripminers range  even less if you are using mining lasers ;3  your idea is that 10% of the barren asteroids revert back randomly every day. you really think that they will survive much after dt?\"don't strip the noob belts clean\" and that what would mean? go there and run a cycle on each asteroid each day? you have already substituted the current system where all asteroid grow in content every a few day with your where 10% of the barren asteroid respawn. so the better system to get the highest number of asteroids is exactly the reverse, generate as much barren asteroids as possible,as it will increase the number of new spawned full asteroids."
"i don't believe that i stated anywhere in my idea that this would completely replace the current system for replenishing belts, it's intended to compliment that system.so basically if you mine an asteroid but leave some of the ore behind then it will replenish slowly as it does at the moment.however, if you fully deplete an asteroid it won't pop like it does at the moment. instead, it'll be represented as a barren asteroid and have a 10% chance each downtime to return as an asteroid with it's ore content maxed out.so, if you want to be guaranteed a steady supply of ore then you never want to mine out an asteroid completely, however if you want to be hunting for single asteroids that could keep even a hulk running for multiple cycles then you'll want to find the fresh asteroids that have replaced barren asteroids."
"so we have the even worse situation with a belt full of low content asteroids and some hidden  as they are all not barren  good asteroids, and you need to shoot your your scanner  15 km range or a little more, at best limited by your barge sensor range  to the asteroid to know the mineral content. we are still at the same point. i think that making a barge running around to find the right asteroids is bad, you seem to like it.you have more than a year experience in game, so, if you have specced for them, you should know how slow are the barges, and how nonproductive is to run around dropping 1 can here one there each time your ship is full. even worse yout idea will ruin group mining as people will not have the possibility to mine decent asteroids and share a can for easy pick up for the hauler."
"or, you could use a mining frigate in a prospector role to locate the good asteroids before your barge even gets to the belt thus minimising the maneuvering you need to do with the flying housebricks that are mining barges. the idea isn't to support a semi afk style of play but to reward those who put in the effort to locate the decent deposits.you seem fixated on the idea of just warping to a belt in a barge and hoovering up anything in range like you can currently. now this is still possible with the exploration sites, again, taking the effort to locate such a site. if you personally don't have the skills to locate these sites i'm sure that there are people in your corporation that can and will for a reasonable share of the profits to cover their expenses and time.if you're a solo miner however then it just means you need to work a little harder to keep up with those using teamwork effectively.edit:having re-read this i apologise if this came across as being a little too harsh, this wasn't my intention."
"i am fixated on the idea that requiring more effort for the same return isn't making mining better, is making it worse."
"i agree. that could introduce in costly/material reapair system -> isk sink -> improve economy.pilots may try to disable ships warpcore, or weapons. even in missions, where someone ask for \"bosses have to flight the battle\", pilots may disable bosses ships as a mission itself  say, no need to kill everything .it's annoying to see that a ship with only 1  one  structure hitpoint is 100% combat efficent like a full shield/armor/structure ship.....i think this would be a hard revamp of the combat system."
"this is a good point... and a good balance.targeting sub-systems would require that they be pronounced enough to lock onto in the first place. so i could see the option only appearing for certain classes of ships to begin with. a frigate is so small  by comparison  that you could try to aim for the engines and wind up hitting the shield generators instead. plus they are easy enough to kill that \"called shots\" wouldn't be worth it.while a titan, or even a bs, are surely big enough to land shots on specific systems without too much collateral damage.perhaps one solution to this dilemma would be adding a stronger sensor module. kinda like the ship or cargo scanners. sure, it takes up an extra slot... but so what. you get to disable ships rather than just destroy them, you can deal with one less slot.so you lock onto a bs, and fire away. or... you lock onto the bs, and then start scanning. now an extra window opens up, displaying the sensitive systems onboard. you click on one, and start to lock on. you'd be using the same weaponry, which means your scan resolution will factor in... and the effective signature radius of such a tiny part of the ship could be impossible for one bs to fire upon another bs. but... those little frigates flitting about could definately get a lock onto the soft underbelly of the opponent's titan or mom.so here we go... \"called shots\" for ships sub-systems. you can attempt it in your mega if you like, or you can hand the job off to that little enyo someone decided to bring along just in case."
"i really like the idea of subsystem targeting, and i have a way that it might be possible in a preliminary stage without too many balancing headaches:the chance of hitting a ship's module is relative to the weapon's signature resolution vs. the ship's signature radiusif the target's shields are up, you can hit high-slot modulesif their armor remains, you can hit high-slot and mid-slot modulesif their armor is gone, you can hit all modulesthis also has the side effect of giving a boost to ships that regularly engage larger targets:-hacs vs. battleships-frigates vs. anything-battleships vs. capitals-capitals vs. motherships and titansi think that might work as a first step."
"how could that possibly be implemented? another right click menu? of course it would be nice to do that, but i assume it's ages to early to speak about, and there are a lot of other things to do first. taramics idea looks much more convertible. just like critical hits in other fantasy games."
"lots of miners are afraid to go into low sec or 0.0. mining barges are too slow and fragile to survive solo/small gang low sec or 0.0 mining ops. how about adding a new t2 mining cruiser that can mine more than it's t1 counterpart but less than a mackinaw/hulk/covetor. if it can mine more/as much as a barge then we would just see them in high sec a lot. also it shouldn't use strip miners or mining lasers, it should be able to use it's kind of mining laser, one that can use mining crystals. it should also get a bonus to mining range this way it can be far away from the warp to 0 point on a belt and far away from scram range. a bonus too cargo capacity and drone damage/mining yield also might be a good idea. the slot configuration should be dependent on the race, but there should be enough low slots to strike a good balance between nano mods and cargo mods. this way it can hold ore, and also align to warp quickly. the ultimate goal of this ship class is to encourage more people to venture from high sec and go into low sec and 0.0 and to diversify the ships you can fly. here is the abridged version.- t2 mining cruiser.- custom mining lasers that can use mining crystals.- bonus's to mining laser range, cargo capacity, drone damage/mining amount.- slot configuration allows for nano and cargo mods.- mines less than the good mining barges  covetor/hulk/mackinaw - encouarges pilots to venture into low-sec/0.0."
"i approved this idea's prototype thread in s&m, and i approve this one. a more durable, cruiser for mining is a nice idea to add some variety to low sec. if they mine less than mining barges, they won't crowd empire, but with increased survivability they may make some miners bold enough to enter low sec. should this happen, there will most likely be an increase in mining ops and even solo mining, thus increasing the population in low sec, which is more fun and money for pvper's and miners alike.i like to think that these proposed ships are to mining barges as blockade runners are to industrials."
"i was thinking about that for sometime.totally agree!!"
"would this perhaps go along with the request for a visible timer on modules?everyone has suggested the rotating clock animation to signify how long before your miners or reppers run another cycle.could that get implemented, and made sure to appear obvious, to satisfy this request for more noticable activity?"
"and if the learning skills would be some sort of boost skill  like drugs . boost that fade away the more they are used, until no more sp remains and noone could use again. some sort of \"pool\" to spend after char creation to speed up your knowledge.to newbies it would be a boost, more exiting esperience learning new skills, piloting more ships, using more weapons. to veterans, they don't need them more as they already know the \"how to\".. as my 3m sp in learnig actually are: time boost."
"if a player is only going to play the trial, and never beyond that... then of course they wouldn't train learning skills. they'd ask \"why do i need those? to learn faster? i don't plan on sticking around that long anyways.\"but the vast majority of players intend on sticking around for a while... at least until they get suicide ganked and can flipped a few times and get fed up with the attitude and atmosphere of pvp pirates. but i digress...players use the free playtime during trial periods to get the learning skills out of the way, because they are such a necessity to getting anywhere in a reasonable amount of time. and despite the repeated attempts, no one will ever raise a valid argument that learning skills are still \"optional\". only about as optional as drinking water and sleeping. sure... you can go without it... but you'd probably regret it.making isk, and buying/replacing ships... those things happen all the time. but you can't do any of it until you learn the skills first. that's why players reinforce that learning skills may not be the only thing you study, but they are a very high priority.i said it before, and i'll say it again. i'm for getting rid of the learning tree. it's not \"something people could do to make themselves better\". it's \"something people have to do if they want to play the game sometime this year.\"if getting rid of them means that each and every skill takes days to complete, then so be it. i don't imagine that ccp would do that to their playerbase, since a lot of folks would say \"this takes too long\" and leave for other mmos.if that means that those skill points just evaporate completely, with no form of reimbursement, then so be it. sure, some players might whine about time spent... but how would you rationalize *spontaneously* rearranging memories and training to support the redistribution afterwards? you went to sleep one night, and forgot \"how to study faster\"... and woke up the next morning knowing how to pilot a hac instead?"
"i agreed to the need of revamp the mission system. really good ideas.for your asking question about how to a player could create a mission... if a corp or an alliance wolud create a contract-like post asking \"we will pay 5 billions isk if you destroy/bringtoreinforcedmode the <corpname> pos in <systemname><moonnumber>\" ? maybe, \"before <date-time>\"? or even \"we will pay 200 millions isk at everyone who partecipate the siege todestroy/bringtoreinforcedmode the <corpname> pos in <systemname><moonnumber>\" ?"
"i approve of anything that adds more random elements to the pve game.ar"
"agreed. and maybe blinkng or changing colour on the time numbers, just to warn."
"with the current contracting system it is impossible to contract ships that are fitted with faction or t2 crystals as the game seems to think they are a damaged item. this is the only type of ammo affected this way and it is incredibly burdensome and annoying. if someone using rails wants to give their ship to a corp mate to move in his carrier he simply contracts it over and its done. if someone using lasers that happen to have faction or t2 crystals fitted wants to they have to jc/fly all the way there, wait for the other person to be around and then manualy trade the ship to them which then completely defeats the purpose. secondly it means that you cannot even attempt to sell ships stuck in hostile stations via contract if they happen to have faction crystals fitted. it is incredibly rediculous that this is still an issue this long after contracts were introduced. there has to be some way to redo the system for t2 and faction crystals to distinguish them from damaged modules/ships/drones etc."
"i don't need viagra, i'm hard as a rock baby  see what i did there "
"a/s/l?"
"timeless/asexual/being macromined"
"i think lavista vista must be the only person in the galaxy who doesn't get junk mail spam advising this"
"well. i do.but i never read any of them, as i don't need a larger **** or anything."
"^^sounds like we dont need to be nerfing nano's....instead nerf lv!!!!!"
"or nerf both!"
"we've all had it happen. we're involved in a battle and manage to dock up with heavy damage. for whatever reason, we were unable to use our repair modules while out in space, and now, we're deep into armor or hull.we're low on isk, and the repair centre says, \"it'll cost you more than you have, my friend.\"you think, \"that's ok, i'll just undock and use the repair modules when it's safe to do so.\"the battle rages on outside, and ends, and you're ready to fly back into 'safe' space to rep up. no such luck! you're too badly damaged to undock! you don't have the isk to repair at the station facilities! what do you do?well, if you're just sitting in the docking area anyway, why not just use those repair modules of yours? save yourself the isk of using them, and you still have to wait out the repair time, right?ccp, let us use repair modules while docked."
"here, here!"
"while it takes away from the repair shop's profits, right in front of their faces... you'd normally just undock and repair right outside their back door while having a smoke..."
"there, there!"
"so as we can see i have out did my reputation far by creating such havok with this forum heheh....."
"this is an interesting post. imo ingame circumstances have a lot to do with the stances on the very issues we are talking about. this is why this csm project is fluff and the reason it will inevitably fail imo.since politics is an intrical part of eve you cannot seperate the two. the higher levels of this game are all about posturing, and using any methods created by ccp including the forums to win  and in some cases metagaming such as buy time cards and other less then desirable means .your proposal of \"dropping politics\" is essentialy saying \"ignore that portion of the game\". since the politics along with the controlling of territory that is entwined with that is the reason many people play the game what you are asking is impossible.good suggestion goonies as some people are not cut out for the job, however since ingame you are my enemy including these forums and all that it pertains , i will not allow you to use the forums, the csm or any other body, or element of this game to gain any advantage, thus in this instance i will disagree with you. the sole reason has already been stated.you have two standing members in the csm. i reserve the right to change my opinion at any time, to include a time when there are no goonies on the afformentioned board, or when/if i suddenly become allied with you, or your goals coincide with mine.if that reason is not cute and fluffy enough for anyone then welcome to eve, and either appreciate it or dont...i dont really care.see my sig for my opinion on other hot topics such as this."
"i dont mean to distribute nonsense or take part in any dibocal's but i do state and here me out i just aquired this character from the forums and was checking out all the post the previous owner had placed so ... pleese disregard any old postings of this character for i did not and repeat was not me who partaked in this discussion ...."
"agree"
"bumpage to get your attention. interested in opinions"
"actually... don't give the titan weapons at all!allow it to anchor itself where ever and go into this mobile outpost mode, and while in that mode it has the cpu/powergrid of a medium pos tower. while it's in siege sentry guns can be anchored around it  or any other pos weapons system . any number of these systems can be anchored at once, up to the starbase defense skill of the anchoring player.drawback: it takes 10m to enter siege, and 30m to unsiege. once it leaves siege mode anything anchored around it goes into storage mode  like an anchored can  and can simply be unanchored just like a can.thus, a titan can anchor itself at a belt, have someone deploy a handful of pos guns to kill the spawns, and the belt can safely be reduced to so much rubble before moving on to the next. or do the same thing at a chokepoint gate to serve as a defensive bastion.if the pilot logs off the titan remains where it is, in siege mode, just like a pos. all logistic modules shut down but sentry systems continue to function."
"i like the concept hastrabull. but i would not make the titan immobile in siege mode. that makes it useless as noone will risk a titan under those circumstances. i would let it use up strontium, and give it capital weapons with say a 1000% damagebonus  compared to 625% for dreads in siege  and without the tracking penalty  so it can also hit battleships . a real monster, but killable and not capable of blowing up a whole fleet with a single push of a button."
"well making it inmobile was one of the main points. titan would change into some sort of outpost but with very high resistances/hp and with huge offensive capabilities +bonus to damage/tracking.in shortinmobile but hard to destroy and with huge firepower + shelter for smaller ships. something similar to command ship from nexus - jupiter incident"
"i think making it immobile in order to use dd  and get decent dps out of its guns  is decent. maybe just make it use a standard siege module  or a titan version that is similar  but have it get a higher bonus  like malachon said  of around 1000% or maybe more. don't increase the timer over 10 minutes. even at 10 minutes most people will never use their dd. make it an hour and you will make the module unusable. you could then make the dd render the ship completely inactive for say 30 seconds to a couple of minutes or so  all modules deactivate, can't move, can't warp etc . i'm not sure how these things would balance it, some testing would be required."
"something like this yes"
"you all suggest the wrong thing. titan should be turned into a mobile outpost with defensive capability not offensive.*titan can turn into an immobile outpost with huge gang bonus*with shield, friendlies can just stay outside the shield and fight, if they take damage, move in and dock up to repair"
"i'd rather have a titan go offline  unable to move, fire, or activate modules  for x minutes after firing off a dd."
"i still like the siege idea into \"station mode\".it could anchor anywhere, so it doesn't need sovereignty or something  as has been suggested before . and it also doesn't need a nearby moon or planet  also been suggested before . i'd also say that certain systems should only be available in different modes. for instance...1  people keep complaining of database errors if a titan has passengers docked, and it tries to jump. so only allow docking while in station mode. if it tries to shift back to ship mode, then everyone is ejected, or it simply can't shift back until everyone has left on their own. this might cause problems, if a ship is aboard and the titan really needs to leave in a hurry... but it's your fault for allowing them inside to begin with. 2  different weapons systems should only be available in different modes. i think the aoe dd could be reserved for station mode as a defense. and a new aimed dd could be used for ship mode. then it can either stay still and blast the whole battlefield, or it can move about and blast individual targets  like other titans .3  i think that the titan could project its shields around friendlies while in station mode. but i wouldn't give it any extra shields during that time either. titans already have hundreds of thousands of shield points... but it could be an option to protect the fleet while that lasts. when the titan is reduced to armor, then the fleet hiding under its skirts is vulnerable as well.4  one extra tweak i suggest everytime the multiple titans per fleet issue is raised. if an aoe dd is used, then the area is irradiated. and successive dd used in that same area before it is allowed to dissipate will bring detrimental results. either the damage suffers \"stacking penalties\". or the weapon has a chance of not firing. or maybe the weapon delivers the blast back onto the titan? either way, i think residual energy would be a simple fix to fleets bringing a dozen titans to a fight."
"if we imagine the local as to the range at wich our own ship-radio can hear, that system simply hear the space void. if noone speak on-air, you don't hear anything but space-noise. if you speak your voice thorugh the system, your words appear, but not the list of people, only the single phrase you spoke, not the list. it is stupid.so, i agree to eliminate local-intel.maybe the stargates themselves spread across the system the +1/-1 access/exit ships  not the type, nor the pilot , so you may know how many pilots been there  mmm and the jump bridges? mmm ."
"i agree with the issues raised about making missions more interesting by randomizing the outcomes. to go along, i would like to see two changes made to how belt rats work and how npc loot drops, both from rats and missions, are determined.1  belt rats. as it stands now, if you are in gallente space for example, you will only see serpentis rats. if you know the security status of the system, you can predict down to the ship name what sort of ship you will see. the rare exception is faction ships, and even those are predictable. why is this? do sansha or gurista pirates *never* travel to essence? my proposal is to add a random element to the encounter tables to allow a chance for different types of rats to show up. also, make it possible for more variety of ship type as well, like bc rats in a .5 system.the value would be more variety and less predictability, chances to get different types of loot and salvage, and motivation for players to work together to take down tougher opponents with smaller ships.2  randomize the loot drops. all npc loot drops can also be predicted by type and ship strength. one of the fun aspects of any game that includes looting is the surprise in what you are going to get. in eve, you might get a hgher meta level item, or the extremely rare faction or officer drops, but 99% of the time loot is dull and predictable. so much so that many players don't bother. same with salvage. my proposal is to expand the loot tables to include items like implants, usable boosters, bpc's, rigs, and other items outside the list of modules. the value would be added excitement to the pve game, and more motivation to loot and salvage. not to mention more pirating possibilities. ; ar"
"maybe there's an option i haven't found yet, but it'd be great if mails from insurance and/or cloning services could be disabled. or at very least, if something could be put into place to make sure that we don't get insurance expiration mails for ships we've sold or otherwise lost possession of...it's obviously not a very important issue... just a minor annoyance from time to time."
"insurance expiry mails for ships you don't own sounds like a bug - bug report it. as for the other, you should be able to add npcs to the blocked list, just like players."
"i'll make this short and sweet.currently, it's possible to use alts on the same account to support an issue. while ccp  and possibly the csms are capable of seeing how many accounts are behind a specific number of supporting votes, this can still be exploited to inflate the number of supporting votes which harms the overall legitimacy of the system and can distort the perspective of players wishing to weigh in on an issue. this needs to be fixed as soon as possible.that is all."
"i'm supporting this topic with my main..."
"...and now with my alt."
"supporting this topic again with my main  and only  character."
"or maybe you're my other alt?! it's become self aware!"
"some where in the nano thread s  insanity over the last couple of days, in one of the threads here in the assembly hall. i believe lavista or maybe it was jade, said that ccp is able to look at the tallys on their end on a per account basis. i do think though for us the on washed masses it would be nice to see that same \"per account\" vote opposed to 3 votes per account mayhem we have right now."
"hello i too support this plan....no i am not the alt of the above poster....promisep.s. you only get to see the one alt, the others portrait is soo ugly small children would cry in fright"
"ok testing this. i thought you could only support with 1 char per account."
"and now with my alt on the same account.eidt: hmm, works indeed."
"agreed, it should be 1 vote 1 account, and transparent to the forum members as well as the folks around the back, to avoid inflated bandwagon effects."
"that must have been jade.but right now, i think this is a limitation of the forum system, which seem to work on a per-character basis.but yes, i fully agree. this is a major flaw. it needs to be worked out for the future of csm. if ccp wants to have a body like this, it will have to be done right. the current way, isn't."
"supportin' dis.at least my alts are fairly easy to actually find"
"i support this topic."
"supported again."
"has my full support, inflating votes with dummies is something akin to election fraud..."
"and again."
"i support this."
"me2."
"i support this issue."
"urm? divide all the results by 3?????"
"that sounds like an event trigger.cat_onwashed     this.extract human.eyes, new spoon spoon.rusty  ;  also, supported.edit:fool. some people don't do this, so you can't. i'm one of the extremely small minority that doesn't even use alts on the same account, never mind other accounts."
"you mean people actually take the thumbs up icons seriously?i've so often seen people support an idea but forget to check the little box that i wouldn't even rely on them to get the overall pro/anti mood of a thread, let alone anything approaching a meaningful tally.although i suppose people will be more careful to /support in threads like the nano ones.edit because i forgot to support"
"the no-nerf vs pro nerf. no nerf is double + the pro nerf.i'm sure that there was padding on either side but however you cut it more people are voicing to stop the changes than to support them as it doesnt just effect nano ships....its a bad idea and you knows it foo.."
"ummmm, you realise that this thread hasn't got anything to do with the nano-nerf itself, right? it's to do with the proven flaw in the current system where multiple alts on the same account can voice support for any given issue thus padding the perceived support and increasing the amount of noise created in the thread, drowning out any reasonable suggestions for how a given idea could be better.this was proved as being possible with the first three posts on this thread with tarmanic supporting this with both himself and one of his alts on the same account as tarmanic."
"supported"
"this thread has nothing to do with any kind of nerfing. get out."
"thanks i wasn't quite sure what to say, my ******ometer temporarily suspended all neural functions."
"1.0"
"/signed"
"im tarminics 3rd alt, i am triping the dataforce by supporting this threadno serious"
"page two snypa"
"stangly enough thought your thread popped up as the nano whiners where loosing the voting war tho eh?and: .. make me"
"my thread popped up as a response to this thread: linkagecheck the timestamps on my first post and this thread's creation.besides, it's extremely likely that both sides are using this tactic. it doesn't make it any less dishonest."
"the fact that players assume that their voting will reverse the changes is misleading. the fact that this is in the assembly hall is misleading. if all this voting power was spent in testing and giving honest, only slightly-biased feedback to what the devs are creating on the test server, the anti-nerf and pro-nerf crowd might actually have some say in how balanced this change is.but the devs have already stated that it's not working as they intend it to work  not as how we believe it should work or how we think it's fine , and their concept for the changes.i'm beating a dead horse, again, when i say that game development isn't a democracy. your not paying to have a product built to your, or even a majority of players, specifications. your paying to buy the product as ccp decides to release it. you've got no creative rights or control over said product.good marketing is completely different, but if you did win and cause a change, you'd sure as hell be p*ssed off when someone else used popular vote from a small minority of the playerbase that is active on the forusm to change something you didn't like. better off we'd be if we just left it to the guys who are trained and paid to design it, as they're the ones who takes the blame if it lives or dies.so, vote or not, opinion or not, the real flaw with this system is player arrogance and misunderstanding."
"definatly supporting this. all you have to do is look at the nano threads and half the chars you see voting against it are characters with no corps and bs names that mean nothing that are a couple weeks old. yea.....ok.....ccp better be able to tell who's on what account. if not, this is a serious problem and peoples vote doesn't mean $hit."
"and this whcih is about as honest about the whole thing as you can get!"
"i voted with my 14 characters..... sorry what was the topic again?metagaming: if you cant beat them 1 on many. outa meta game them whining. for when you cant win in game whine for changes and the only counter to a sucessful whine is lots more whining!"
"agreed. an 'align to\" for every single celestial object in space, not only the fleet version."
"agreed.maybe not all bosses would escape  they too have clones! .but some missions that don't require to kill all, but to tackle someone, or exploring some systems or so.. : totally agreed on removing t1 loot and halving boring frigs."
"i agree.but we have to remember the loot problem. it really kill economy, miners and producers right now. on some other thread, some nice post ask to eliminate loot for scrapping, maybe leaving some named t1 mods, insignas and quest items, and a tiny up on bounty  not much .maybe producing t1 mods will be worth again."
"i didn't go threw reading it all, at work at the moment, but i don't think you should remove the quality rating. instead make it that once you get to a certain security rating all agents for that empire are equal quality, makes something to work for and would still reduce lag spreading out missioners and and still keep the present system.edit - guess this idea was already proposed."
"i do missions to relax myself. i do pvp in nullsec to excite myself.i think it's bad to force to go mission runners to lowsec systems where they risk their ships.and it is bad to eliminate missions only because of lag. i can ask to eliminate pvp for the same reason, don't i?no, it would be bad to kill missions as it would be bad to kill pvp.so, aside the omnipresent lag  new hardware will help , the mission hubs will lose lag only if mission runners will find new systems.i totally agree to clean the laggest systems.one suggestion is to let contact my agents from systems far away from the agent homesystem based on standing. a pilot could ask for mission in lowsec, simply calling that agent from a lowsec system. if my standing will be enough i can even ask my agents for mission in null sec, and maybe that mission would be more risky and hard.so there will be no need for quality, but only level and system security. no difference between 1.0 and 0.5  really no difference , but if i'm a militian  factional warefare , mission in enemy systems would pay.callin' agents from away and nullfing the reward difference between 1.0 and 0.5, would kill mission hubs and let enough space for future improvements on the mission-game-system."
"we are supposed to be drone specialists, after all. i propose to reevaluate bandwitdh specs on all gallente boats. all gallente battleships should have 125mb drone bandwitdh for a start. for a drone-specialised race, to have battleships that can't even fit 5 heavy drones, just doesn't sit right."
"gallente can be specced for drones, blasters, and railguns, so no not every bs should be able to fit 5 heavies."
"gallente have a primary turret weapon like every other race, and some of their ships favor that weapon. the fact that their ships are split between drone and turret users is not uncommon. caldari face the same issue, only their weapon split of hybrids and missiles all take up the same high-slots.if anything, i'd consider yourself lucky that a large portion of your damage potential in a large portion of your ships do not take slots, do not require fittings, and don't use cap. asking for another boost is like spitting in the rest of our faces."
"and, this could probably be better posted in the gameplay discussion or features and ideas sections."
"kid, there is a drone nerf coming, as they are now too good to take out smaller ships, compared to 99% of turrets  no n in turret ."
"increase for all ships why should gal ships get that regardless if they are the drone race..... hell amarr ships only get bonus for cap  basically means the lasers won't drain the cap that fast  and the damage bonus only goes on a few select ships same as resist bonus and rof.... forgot the abaddon only gets resist and dps bonus apoc gets range and cap use i think i am not a big fan of the bandwidth thing myself but hey **** happens and then u adaptwhiner threads"
"following the same logic caldari can be specced for rails, blaster, guided missiles and unguided missiles, four specializations against 3. not less so for the whining comments."
"though i'm a professional drone *****, i can't support this.dominix  5% hybrid damage per level, 10% drone damage per level : 6 turrets, 5 heavy dronesmegathron  7.5% tracking per level, 5% damage per level : 7 turrets, 5 heavy droneshyperion  5% damage per level, 7.5% repair per level : 8 turrets, 4 heavy dronesdps  no skills, t1 | all skills, t1 | all skills, t2 :dominix: 224 | 679 | 897  tier one, two damage bonuses megathron: 245 | 613 | 809  tier 2, one damage and one tracking bonus hyperion: 247 | 615 | 816  tier 3, one damage and one repair bonus things look pretty good to me. the hyperion has an extra turret but loses a single drone. it's real damage will be a bit lower than the mega's due to tracking but the megathron has 2 offensive bonuses while the hyperion has only one offensive bonus, so that seems pretty balanced to me. there's no good balance reason why the hyperion should have another drone."
"nice troll."
"i'm a massive gallente specialist, and even i think this idea is stupid. being the drone race doesn't mean that the noob ship should come with fighters. and hyperbole aside, two gallente bses have 125 of bandwidth, and the hyperion is just fine without it."
"was inspired by yours. if you count blastrers and rails as different specializations, i can do the same for guided and unguided missiles."
"heheheh ... i guess you could count the combat and sentry drones as different types, no?but more accurate would be to say, hybrids and drones, and hybrids and missiles. the two don't equal out, though, because in the latter case, they both take up high slots."
"fine. caldari = hybrids and missiles. gallente = hybrids and drones. amarr = lasers and drones. minmatar =  bastard child who uses everything  mostly projectile and missiles. each race has bonuses focusing on 2 types. this is eve university 101. the gallente do not suffer from a specialization deficiency."
"so really drones should be nerfed aaahhh lock thread."
"maybe not all but some gallente ships really lost out when drone bandwidth was introduced. in particular the ishkur went from a nice ninja ratting ship to a useless piece of crap."
"then maybe the ishkur deserves some lovin, but clearly not all of them - only the droneboats that are shown to be underpowered  like your example ."
"gief the eos back the ability to hold/deploy 5 heavies nowwwwwwwwwwww."
"the eos and myrmidon should have lost turret slots, not drone bandwidth. and yeah, the ishkur got hit, although not really as hard as those two."
"the heart of the matter is that you want a dps increase on all gallente battleships.your arbitrary definition of drone affinity as being able to fit 5 of the biggest drones is interesting as well. compare caldari and gallente and its obvious which race has more emphasis on drones, beyond that gallente isn't entitled to anything."
"because some original person took the time and effort to specialize a character, and the other person is paying money or isk for that effort. there is a difference. in your first example two characters are involved and neither change, they just switch ownership. the second involves the actual alteration of a character that should remain static. i don't think players should have the freedom to move around their skill points at will like musical chairs. you can alter your own character by training something else, i think that's enough freedom as every character can do anything. there's plenty of logic in denying this op."
"i can't really support this as much as there's a part of me that would like to.eve does not have \"path\" system that you're locked into where choosing certain skills makes other skills difficult to learn or impossible to learn, nor does it have some \"softcap\" to total sps where reaching a certain sum total of sps means that you gain sps at a slower rate afterwards. for instance, just because i have 1,500,000 sp in missiles does not mean that if i try and buy gunnery skills later on they now cost twice as much sp to level. if eve's skill system worked that way, i'd support your post.it doesn't, though.while i don't support the op's request, this isn't a good example. in wow, you're \"locked\" into a certain path depending on your choices. in eve you are not - there is no mechanic for diminishing returns in other skills because you chose certain skills.i'm going to guess you don't play other mmos then.i've played most major mmo to have come out and quite a few not-so-major ones like this one. of those i played, all of them had major changes that totally change some \"class's\" aspect. while you might not know people who played everquest  if you do, ask them how about necromancers in early eq and what happened to them later , try asking someone who plays wow how paladins \"used to be\" or how mages used to get an invisiblity and an unlock spell  making rogues pointless .people are better off in eve than in those games because there's no classes and you're not \"locked\" into a certain skillset."
"its only a matter of time tho.seriously, i gotta say i cant approve of this idea, you make your choices and thats the end of it.just for balance ill point out that i have skirmish mindlinks, recons 5 inties 5 hac 5all stuff thats getting massively changed. do i want agility bonuses instead of speed bonuses? do i *******s, i trained the skills for the speed increase, cos i for one hate snailblobtankwars and i fly with some incredibly talented inty pilots.as far as im concerned there should never be any requirement for this kind of respec option, as the changes proposed should never be considered, minor tweaks for balance, as required.unfortunately thats not the case, sadly it seems to me the loudest portion of the playerbase are the ones who have the least clue about the impact of thier screaming.educate those players, teach them that the game can still evolve with only minor adjustments and that whatever fotm is currently killing them can be easily balanced  if it is unbalanced that is  with only minor changes. that is going to be a far more valuable and long lasting option than respecing skills"
"i still want to be able to delete skills."
"now i don't know if this happens to everyone, but it happens to me a lot, and it's starting to get somewhat irritating. most of the time when i'm getting a storyline mission, i'm looking forward to it, till i read the mission details and discover that the mission is about transporting 7500 m3 big cargo or mine buy  10k m3 ores for the faction for war preparation so the faction won't soil itself and die of the humiliation. now those missions aren't that irritating, autopilot something somewhere and get paid for it is easy money, aslong as you got the ship for it. most of the time i'm doing command/security/anything-that-involves-killing-other-ship missions, so me having a ship that got a four didgit m3 cargohold number really isn't something i give much attention to. what i do give a little attention to however, is storyline command/security/anything-that-involves-killing-other-ship missions, but it doesn't seem to me that i get most of those. instead i get a boring mission which i need to jump 6 times back and forth 15 times cause the cargohold of my salvaging ship only got enough space for one engine.if this is a somehow irritating phenomena that mission runners experience, then i believe that storyline missions could be organized in the way that mining missionsers get mining related storyline missions, combat missionsers get combat related storyline missions and so on.anyways, that's just me.thanks for your attention.-ady"
"just so ya know. the missions you get are determined by the department that the agent works with. so if you want lots of fighting missions work for a command or security agent and now a manufacturing or research agent. don't know for sure if the militia agents are broken down this way but i bet they are."
"the cynical perspective of factional warfare prior to its release was that it would be some sort of \"pvp lite.\" i've been bopping around the gallente militia for a few days, and i don't think this is true. what it is is \"alliance lite;\" the militia is functionally similar to an alliance, but without leadership or organization.there are problems, though, with an alliance without a head. internal issues arise: complaints of loot-stealing, bickering between corporations culminating in intra-militia wardecs, and arguments over militia-wide strategy and tactics. there's no authority to settle internal disputes, so the disputes continue. and there's no authority, either, to level punitive measures against players or corporations who persist in causing problems for the militia. there's no guarantee beyond an implied agreement that we're even all fighting for the same <i>side.</i> there needs to be some way for the militia to deal with problem members and problem corporations, and in less extreme cases to function as the last word in intra-militia disputes. authority would also help on an organizational level. the ability to designate short term goals and provide some mandate for the activities of militia members would help on several fronts. it would give the militia, especially new players who aren't entirely sure of their direction or purpose, something to concentrate on. it would also allow the disparate elements of the militia  the pve'ers who don't really want to get involved in pvp, and the pvp'ers who don't want to do plexes  to cooperate on a more meaningful level. if the goal this week is to decontest fliet, then the folks wondering what they should be doing know that they should be heading to fliet and doing the complexes there. and the folks doing pvp fleets know that the other side will be drawn to that system like flies to honey, and will know where to concentrate their efforts.organization will also help another problem, which is the lack of fc's. the militia channel is always full of people x'ing up for whatever group will have them, but fleet commanders willing to take a group under their wing are significantly less common. at most, there tends to be one large blob'ly fleet in the warzone, and then usually only when an opposing fleet has already been spotted. having goals handed down from on-high will give people a better idea of what they need to do, which will hopefully result in more people being willing to step up to the plate and take command of a fleet.so having a system of leadership in the militia would help keep deal with intra-militia squabbling, and help give players purpose."
"here's how i propose to do it: - individuals are chosen to fill specific roles in the militia by a vote. corporations each get a vote, and the militia corporation's members all vote individually to determine the militia corporation's vote.  alternately, a corporation is chosen in a similar manner, and their ceo becomes something akin to an alliance executor. - the militia leader has the power to kick corporations from the militia for a period of time, or individuals from the militia corporation. he doesn't have to approve applications; the militia will remain open to anyone who wants to join. booting a member or corp from the militia will require a vote from existing militia corporations. the boot will not be permanent - possibly, it could simply entail dropping the corporation/player's standings, which would necessitate regaining standings to rejoin the militia. - if rewards for fw are implemented, the militia leader may be able to put players or corporations on a probationary status, and dock them a percentage of their rewards.- the militia leader has the power to designate a system or systems as conquest goals. this could be handled in a few different ways: either single systems, or up to three adjacent systems, or up to three nonadjacent systems, or single constellations. victory points in these systems are gained at a higher rate than in other systems, for both sides. standing increases for vp gain and kills are also higher in these systems than in others. this doesn't function as a tremendous incentive without faction pvp rewards, but even without them it gives the militia some focus. even simply giving lps to players who score kills in the goaled systems might work. - the systems designated by the opponent's militia leader as conquest goals become defensive goals, with similar mechanisms play. since all of the systems have multiple capture points, this would help decrease blobbing somewhat; simultaneous strikes on multiple points mean that the blob cannot be everywhere at once. at present, blobbery hasn't been cut down upon because the points are spread across dozens of systems, and the prize the fleet's chase is the enemy fleet. bringing the conflict down to a couple systems at a time might help this, and bring fw specific mechanics further into play.at present, the main problem facing factional warfare is the lack of coherence within militias. corporations may be organized but the militias as a whole aren't. there's a significant power vacancy from the fleet commander level upwards, and the militia is really feeling that where it hurts. simply sticking someone at the top and giving him basic levels of authority would help this tremendously, and might help make factional warfare the interesting variant of pvp it was meant to be."
"edit: op fixed this"
"should solve that problem. and having someone at the helm to make the decision and then having people need to ratify it will work better, i think, than a straight democracy. also, it wouldn't be too hard to put in safeguards to prevent bootery en-masse.[edit: hah, nevermind, then. but the democratic vs. ratification thing is important enough that i'm leaving my post here.]"
"/signed to everything he said.fw has no internal controls over its militia members, other than normal corporation management features. this is not enough.there exists a need to handle war-decs, standings across all of the faction, and fleet management. recognizing fc's is one thing, but having fleet features where there are designated fleets in place and people can simply sign on without x'ng all of the time, is a welcome idea whose time has come.extend control in the areas that need it, and release control for the sore points. ccp needs to get in touch with all of the visibly prominent corporations that are trying to organize things across all of these fronts.ccp, or any member of the csm, please take heed. the playerbase as a whole may not know how to articulate into words what is required, or even be 100% consciously aware of the issues at stake, but there are a large number of us that do. please talk to us."
"op suggestions:all non corporate militia members, 1 collective vote, each corporation  independently by the number of players, even 1  1 votealliance like politics games to be added to militia play, with giving some people the power to ban others from the militia  and it will abused as a tool against specific corporations dictator like militia ceo with the power to set goalsto all the above:nothe militia is not a 0.0 alliance and should not be ruled as one. quoting some little pearl open to exploitation:"
"this can be abused in so many ways, just one example would be for an alliance to seed the militia of thier choice with a bunch of alts and members, then vote one of thier own into control leaving themselves with thier own little personal militia.the other problem is how do you make sure the vote is fair.-one vote per person, the largest corp in the militia wins.-one vote per corp, the largest corp in the militia still wins, all they need to do is have each member start thier own little temporary corp, join the militia and vote."
"there are simple safeguards that can be put in place to keep people from flooding the militia with alt corp/players. for instance, we've got a ranking system . . . why not weigh votes by rank? you can flood the militia with a bunch of rank 0 alts, but they won't be able to swing an election. the need to ratify decrees means that this is not an 0.0 \"dictatorship.\" it's a cooperative effort. but what the effort lacks now is <i>initiative,</i> and that's what putting someone at the helm gives us. it gives us people actively making decisions, that the rest of us can \"yay\" or \"nay\" to. instead of us all sort of sitting around in a mob grumbling about how someone should be doing something. second point: larger corporations have more power? that's how a democracy works. the danger of having the people make the decisions is that there's a constant danger of more people who aren't you making decisions you don't want. either we can have a democracy, which apparently we don't want, or we can have a dictatorship, which we don't want either, or we can have anarchy, which we've got and is frustrating. we can put safeguards in place to prevent corp-spawning, to prevent alt-spamming, and to prevent an 0.0 alliance moving in wholesale and shutting the place down. if you have better ideas on how to do this, feel free to speak up. but folks, this is exactly the problem we've got with the militia now. no one's in charge, and a significant minority can't wrap their minds around the idea of being \"constructive.\" the militia needs leadership, and if you don't like my proposal i would <i>really, really</i> like suggestions about how militia leadership could be better implemented. because we need something. oh, and the other solution is to ask to have ccp put someone in charge. but . . . folks, this is eve. the whole game is arguably about players governing themselves - is fw really such a joke that we need to carebear up the leadership, too?"
"i would like to see a race specific bonus implemented. that way any minmatar born clone flying a minmatar ship will have specific racial bonuses.example.minmatar racial bonus can be 10% bonus to ship speed.caldari racial bonus can be 10% missile bonus of some description.gallente racial bonus put towards drones.amarr racial bonus to capacitor.these bonuses can be worked out amongst the ccp thinktanks.cheers. chelly."
"first, i think this is more for 'features and discussions' than the assembly hall.secondly, one of the prime factors about choosing a 'race' is that it gives you no bonuses. we're all equal, it's the skills we train and the ships we decide to fly.does that mean the idea is bad? no. but theres something counterproductive about being a minmatar, for example, and not using your speed bonus to stack with your ships speed bonus. specialization beats out generalization any day.so i support moving this idea to it's proper forum, and i don't support adding bonuses to races. unless you give amarr a 10% bonus to armor resists. then i fully support it ;?j"
"we already have racial specific bonuses.they are found at character creation, in the form of what starting skills and attribute balance you have at intial character creation.so, no i dont support your idea."
"if you give bonuses to people based on their character race you will **** off a large portion of the player base because the race their character is doesn't have the bonus they want. the older the character, the more ****ed they are.add in the bonuses only working if your flying your races ships, and you **** of everyone who wants to fly ships of multiple races.this is the kind of change i would leave the game over because it forces me to chose between throwing away a character i've had for a while, putting up with the fact that i will never be able to pilot a gallente ship as well as the players who got lucky, or leaving eve."
"you should still be able to get the skill and ship specific bonuses if you choose to fly another races ship. what i'm getting at is this:2 ravens shape up for a 1 v 1.pilot 1 is amarr.pilot 2 is caldari.i think pilot 2 should have just the smallest advantage to his raven as he is caldari.there are plenty of nerfs that ''****'' pilots off.in the end, it's to make life a little more interesting, not easier as easier is often boring."
"the op is right, in a manner of speaking. if you look through the data dumps, you'll see race-specific bonuses, not far off what the op suggests.however, eve is all about redemption. you have to take yourself very far down one path until you're not able to come back  faction standings . applying a limit to characters at their birth goes way against this.saying that, i would like to see more racial difference. whether that be race-specific ships, or militia-only reward ships for high-ranking officers  which are returned if they leave the militia , then it's all good."
"what a terrible idea"
"this is just a bad idea, sadly. it sounds good on paper, but really, the skills you get starting out should cover this, but beyond that, everyone should be equal.oh, it's great if you happen to play amarr with an amarran character. but what happens in the future when the amarr are nerfed? or you start out playing caldari because they sound like awesome miltarists then you find out about the truth about missiles and pvp.right now, one of the big \"insurance policies\" in eve is that even if some favorite tactic / race's ships / skills are nerfed, you can always just learn new skills without being inherently disadvantaged compared to someone else who was just \"born better\" who will stay better forever."
"no. eve prides itself on letting everyone do everything equally well as long as they put the same amount of time into it. i was completely against char-gen-only skills, and i'm most definitely against this."
"i prefer the existing system. anyone can do anything, given enough time."
"it is a terrible idea. what makes eve great is it's flexibility. you are, for all intents and purposes, a \"tabula rasa,\" as john locke put it. you fill it with whatever you want. complete freedom.what's your suggesting creates classes. classes = bad"
"it was stealth nerfed during the expansion release, and i bug reported it shortly after.no response yet on the bug report, nor a simple database hotfix. so, they've seen how effective logi's are with remote energy x-fer and made it impossible for anyone  other than bpo holders  to produce t2 versions?the bug report."
"\" you are not authorized to view this bug report \""
"what seems to be the problem here, sir?"
"i agree that some of the nerfs may be a little overboard. i don't fly nanoships. but i've said it before, i'll say it again: nerfing the crap out of something is the laziest way to fix a perceived problem.tbh your ideas, along with some buffs to either tracking on some ships or missile explosion velocity and missile velocity on others  or both  would serve the playerbase much better to combat ships that are currently invulnerable due to their high speeds."
"if your intent on seeing any balance to the nerf, get on sisi and test it to death. report your findings, don't go all opinionated, and believe it or not, devs will listen.prove to them that your taking too much damage from missiles. prove to them that your getting locked down too hard. but whether your arguing for or against the nerf, unless your actually contributing to make the changes the devs have already decided to make balanced, all your doing is blowing smoke.don't try veto's and votes like you think this is some kind of high-school popularity contest. test, report, and test again. if you don't do your part to help bring balance, you've got no right to yell about ccp not listening."
"ok, veto it, keep your 7k/s ishtar.but give us the guns to hit you in the face with when your doing max speed."
"these changes are dispicable, repugnant, and lack any intellectual direction. they are counter to small game combat, display a complete lack of understanding by the devs about pvp and are a complete capitualation to the whining drake, caracal, raven crowd. the worst things every forced down the throats of players and could possibly result in the first serious decrease in the viability of eve as an entertainment product"
"signed."
"just some place to discuss progression of faction wars..."
"make alliances cheaper to start/maintain. as things are many corps cannot get access to 0.0 space as existing alliances will not recruit/ allow them access. my corp has been trying to get into a 0.0 alliance, but no one will have us. we cannot hope to take on an alliance to gain space, so what do we do to get into 0.0? obviously we do not want to join another corp, we have the corp we want already. ccp wants people to expand into 0.0, yet makes it almost impossible."
"yes, they are boring. maybe it's possible to reimburse them fairly. however:no, you are not forced to train them.no, they are not so tedious if you do a little math with marginal returns  see evemon if you can't do the simple economic analysis yourself yes you can replace the attributes, but what about reallocating the sp and time spent?i think it's enough that the tier-2 learning skills can be started upon completion of the teir-1 at level iv. that's very very lenient to begin with. learning skills provide a way to customize your character and allow him/her to grow intellectually. learning skills are a healthy introduction to the patience required in the unique skill system of eve."
"even ccp refered to them as a boring grind."
"i already accounted for that in my post.they don't customize your character at all, because basically everyone trains them because they are universally necessary. yet again it doesn't add anything to the game except force newbies to waste time before training anything usefulwouldn't a better introduction just be letting people see the skill system for themselves, rather than a wow-esque \"grind for a ****load of time before you can do anything useful\"?"
"it does not force new players to do anything. most people who don't understand the system do all their skills to iv:iii because they are told to. it is possible to get you basic skills without bringing your learning up to ridiculous levels.instead of:learning ilearning iilearning iiibeginner skillsadvanced skillstry this:learning skills ibeginner ilearning iibeginner iiadvanced ilearning iiibeginner iiiadvanced iietc.it isn't a grind when done properly and efficiently. if eve does one thing well it teaches players the basics of diminishing marginal returns. having high learning skills is only worthwhile when training those iv/v skills. players benefit by learning to prioritize.again, you don't have to grind, you can plan it properly so it's not such a terrible obstacle. if a player chooses all of his attributes at the beginning, either one of two things would happen.1  ccp would make sure all of the bloodlines are balanced so each has an equal opportunity to specialize in anything as they do now. no fun in picking a bloodline.2  ccp would keep the bloodlines separate. newbie who doesn't understand the game picks the bloodline with all the charisma and realizes since the attributes are at a high level and he can't add any to perception and intelligence, he trains slowly for everything important and quits.i had a longer post with more math for this second part let me know if you want to see it."
"i beg to differ a bit, they do \"customize\" your character, especially for those who are dedicated insane  enoungh to train up 5,376,000sp in learning skills. customized how you may ask, customized in the fact that i am able to out skill those fellow eve pilots who started around the same time as me. yes it is a long time to pay off learning everything to lvl5 in learning, even the advanced ones, but i am going to be in this game long enough for it to pay off.eve is not about instant gratification, eve is about dedication and long term commitment to goals. maybe that is why when i was still a nubbin, of my first 5m sp, 3.5m sp of it was in learning. for some people that may be too slow to get \"real\" skills, but i used that time to actually learn about the game, reading faqs, the forums, guides, and joining a corp where i got to learn a bit about all aspects of eve.for the record you dont need to have much sp to be effective, you just need to be cunning. i only once \"pirated\" and it was when i was a week old and in a punisher in low sec, i had less than 500k sp at that time, but i still got me 10m for ransom.also for the record, yes i really am sick and have the aforementioned 5,376,000sp in learning skills.tl;dr versioneve is not the instant gratification you seek, learning skills are worth it, if you have the paitence.do not support"
"i think learning is fine...you either do them or you dont, the obligation to do them is all in your head.what i do want to see is the adv learning skill itself."
"learning skills are a great aspect to the game. learning skills actively encourage newer players to be responsible with their skill training and show how rewarding time management can be."
"null^this"
"go here for the previous thread. every aspect of it gets debated to death."
"the entire vote is bullsh*t, and i'm not saying that because i'm in support of the nerf or against. i could care less, because my perception of 'balance' is completely different.but when the hell was it the players, with no programing experience and no real concept of how the game worked behind the game screen that they see, who decided what changes the developers made?i mean, come the f*ck on, they were taking votes before the test server was up. and testing is going on, and changes are already coming down taking the testing into account.but i'm so amazed at how arrogant players can be. your not paying to have this game built to your specifications, you know. your paying to play the game as the developers choose to deliver it. going off on a vote or crying for nerf/anti nerf threads on the forums is, hopefully, completely ignored by the playerbase.because guess who will never take accountability if a poor decision is made off their own complaints? the players.if the servers crashed and could not be repaired because players were pushing the game engine to limits it couldn't handle with a particular mixture of modules, boosters, rigs, implants and skills, it damn sure wouldn't be those who used those tactics who would raise their hand and say 'my fault.'and the same goes the other way. if thousands of players were lost because of a massive nerf of an entire playstyle, it's not going to be the whiners who claim the blame.it all goes onto the developers shoulders. let them design their game, throw an idea out every now and then, but until you are paid to make the code yourself, don't assume that you should have any say. your power is simple and easy to use: pay the monthly fee, or don't.if you pay, you like what ccp does. if you leave, you don't.easy. now can we all get over this crap?"
"yay, anubis xian's sales alt on same account."
"anubis xian's ceo alt on same account."
"yeah, that seems broken to me."
"hehehe .. read the posts. i've posted with all my accounts, several trial accounts, and in both sides with various alts on each of these accounts.if that doesn't invalidate those bs 'up in arms' comments, i've lost respect for the ccp dev team."
"one account, one votean answer was given in there by inanna zumi that the csm/ccp could see the number of individual accounts supporting a given issue, however this doesn't help when people are blitzing a given issue with all of their alts  in this case the nano-nerf both for and against it  and claiming that support as an overwhelming mandate for change given that the general eve population cannot see the account support just the number of thumbs."
"don't want this to drop off the front page for too long. players might forget that they have no say in key development decisions other than their right to pay for the game as it is delivered, or not.and of course we all know that that would be a horrible world full of forum politics, whines and counter-whines, and annoying threads like the very one your reading. basically, forum hell."
"yet before salvage it wasn't their income since salvage is a relatively recent addition. i wonder if the changed probing system came out at the same time as salvage?this would mean that the ability to salvage other peoples missions would have been started at the same time as salvage."
"personally, i don't really care if they take the learning skills out or leave them in. though taking them out would cause some major headaches and what not. what i would like to see though, is the time it takes to train from 4 to 5 reduced. 30+ days to train a skill is just plain silly. knock 25-50% off that training time and, imo, things would go much smoother. there would be a lot of gripes and whinging from older players, but whatever happens, someone is gunna complain."
"neither evelyn beatrice hall nor voltaire  who she was describing when she said that  were american. you're missing the point. nobody is asking for \"special treatment\". it's just that it's neither appropriate nor fair to make assumptions or assertions about someone based on some unrelated category they happen to fit into. if i call you stupid because of something you did, that's one thing  although still rather rude , but if i call you stupid because of where you were born  and thereby call every single other person who was born there stupid by implication  that's beyond the pale.we're a private community here. there's absolutely nothing wrong with expecting certain minimum standards of behavior in the community. if you really can't stop yourself from being openly and aggressively racist, homophobic, misogynistic or whatever nobody is \"stopping you\", we're just saying don't do it here.if it makes you feel better i'll fight to the death for your right to start your own forum and say what you like there."
"it's ok to be bigoted in game right, like my caldari character is a racist against minmatar scum?"
"sure."
"i'm a newbie, i started playing this game last september  or was it october?  anyway, i played the game for about a month and quickly got bored of it. i thought \"eh, all this skill training crap is too boring.\"  that's saying something, i'm normally patient.  so, about ten months later, i had a conversation with a guest  customer, i work at target  who plays eve. the advice he gave me, was to slow down on the learning skills, and train in stuff that you think would be fun. i'm glad i talked to him, because i'm having more fun with eve now than i had months ago. so just to reinforce what a lot of people are saying:don't take away skills, just educate newbies on doing what's fun rather than shoving learning skills down their throats. when they are necessary, they can always be returned to later."
"35 pages of do not want there.you have no idea what you are talking about. just stop typing."
"some thoughts...first, to ankh on the \"slap on the wrist\" players found the issues you brought to ccp to be important, some had been asked for or about for a long time with no feedback... with the csm we get feedback... ccp wanted big things and that is what they got, they just did not have the same idea of what was a big thing.lavista,i am in agreement with you on ship balancing, it seems to me that all you will see here is opinions on those ships and their value... having the csm spending time on debating if this ship or that needs a reassessment is a down right waste... all ship balancing needs to start out with a look at the database  by ccp  to see what warships  those ships that have use in combat  are used or not, which are primaried  popped first  would be a good statistic, which are ignored... and which are left back in a hanger... nothing to do with the csm here...one of the above posts said a reply only forum is a good idea, dev asks the question \"why are crows left in the hanger when other interceptors are out fighting?\"  i picked a crow because i can spell it, not because it's bad  where a ship the database says is not used as it should be... or a whole class of ships are left out of the fights... filter  delete  all the troll posts and go from there... nothing for the csm except perhaps for the nebulous \"there have been multiple posts aimed at balance issues, please let us know what you are doing about it\"ccp wants the csm to look at \"big\" issues, but like so many things, \"big\" is a matter of perspective... battleships look big if you are in a frigate, but very small if you are in a titan."
"perhaps remand ship balancing issues to other forum sections, and let it stand in queue?"
"this is something i've been griping about for quite some time. right now, i use a destroyer to salvage missions. works great. until it gets full. then i have to dock or pop a can and come back for it in a hauler, wasting a lot of time. an industrial or barge of some sort would be nice. here's my concept - that's my concept."
"/signed"
"please please please make these kinds of changes to pos's! i was so disappointed when i saw my first pos. pardon my bluntness, but the way they are implemented now is just utter and complete crap."
"can't believe this isn't getting more attention./signed....again"
"signedalthough i believe the idea is still raw and needs a lot of refining, i think this is a great direction."
"i think that increasing the bonus that rsd ships give out should be increased to 7.5% instead of 5%, making them more useful."
"/signed"
"yes ecm ships got the boost now pls do the rest"
"/signedgiving damps one of their effects back up to prenerf status would be really nice."
"i don't use two monitors now, but if it meant being able to see the game while i market-browse, i certainly would. : "
"yes yes yes and i think this whould be a new 1st in an mmo if not out of all games so it gets my veto."
"love it support"
"just rewrite the ui so we can drag windows like chats, fleet, market, etc outside eve's main window. something like tool and palette windows in photoshop. 1920 or 1680 resolution would be large enough for eve if one could get all those secondary windows outta the way and keep only the overview and ship hud in the main window."
"yes please."
"signed"
"eve absolutely needs native multi-monitor support  unless it would cause server lag !yes, you can already stretch eve over monitors with hardware. but, to clarify it's a function of your video card and it's video driver not the eve client - if we could unhinge parts of the ui, size the screen to what we want and put ui  read overview, market window, etc.  items where we want while changing the center point - eve would be much more awesome than it already is but fix lag in massive fleet battles first!"
"i was just talking to one of the goon fc's about cap training, and when i said i was planning on training minmatar caps, he laughed. i loved my scimitar, and remote repping in hostile situations is fun for me, so i figured the nid wouldn't be too bad. however, my first time trying to make a nag fit in eft my jaw dropped. being able to fit the 4 weapons, siege mod, and one boosterr or repper with little cpu left over is pretty pathetic, especially given the fact that their damage output is so low, nag pilots would be forced to shield tank so they can fit damage mods to increase their damage. the fix i thought to myself was exactly what yorda suggested, minus the 3/3 turret/missile idea  i'm all-for 3 turrets and no missiles, however . changing the nag and the nid to shield tankers would balance the shield/armor tanker capitals. hopefully this issue will be addressed before i have to train for dreads"
"these slot arrangement needs to be more specialised"
"i don't think that black ops bs will ever eclipse capitals ever in any category, and that right now they are just big expensive toys that need a big boost. the sin's bonus isn't useful, panthers is kinda funny and gimmicky, while the redeemer and widow remain most useful  in my opinion . giving the panther a range bonus, and the sin a rep amount bonus would make those ships more useful, but those are just a few quick ideas i came up with on the spot. the most glaring weakness as i see it is that the fuel bay is too small, as discussed, ships that emerge from being bridged are not cloaked  recons, stealth bombers, covops are all pretty fragile , and that ships that need to launch a covert cyno need cyno theory 5  which isn't that big of a deal, but it is a pain to train .edit: upon reading waxau's post, i like his idea of giving the ships an ew bonus  but not as strong as the recon equivalent, maybe 2/3 , and giving them a covops cloak capacity. they shouldn't replace recons, but they should also fit along their scheme."
"against in it's current form.it's too extreme, too cataclysmic. too soe like. yes that is a grave insult to ccp, to compare a move of theirs to soe i'd rather see a nerf that affects the high end  cruisers going freaking 10k+  but leave reasonable fits alone  say 3-5k . these changes are going to make reasonable setups cost billions because it seems to be balanced based on people fitting crazy stuff. i also disagree vehemently with the webifier nerf, wtf? nerf the only thing that currently can be used to break nanos?the mwd change is just ******ed. a t2 mwd should be faster than a t1.. ditto faction and officer ones...also, i disagree with giving warp scrams the ability to also shut off mwd's. that makes one module way too powerful. if you want to add that ability to a scram/disruptor module it should be via script so that you have to load either warp scram or mwd scram script.webs also should be scripted one for strength, another for longer range at the expense of strength..."
"having the invitation to a marathon race i started training, being nearly ready someone told me: 'hey dude, they shortened the distance... it's just 100m now!' i thought - 'hell s..t i need to change my training and get some spikes!'then - when the races finally started - the referee came: 'hello sportsmen.. the organizers of these fine games got the audiences opinion - they better like to see werestling' ...hello? ccp? adjusting..., balancing, fine tuning... ok - but turning the whole thing upside down in between?i vote no the planned 'changes'."
"just out of interest, is this merely another example of your usual trolling, or indeed your honest opinion?"
"/signed"
"that"
"against your taking it all away"
"we need a nerf but this is the wrong one. i am against!"
"the nerf of the pollcarbs/mwd reuse timer yeswarp scram killing mwds/web nerf/gang skill nerf no!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"[color=\"red\"][size\"200\"]hell no[/size][/color]"
"against"
"this will kill small gang pvp. there will be no way that a smaller force can engage a blob without getting annihilated. this will move from a game of skill into a game of who can make the biggest blob. small gang pvp is the most rewarding experience that this game has to offer, and this patch will destroy it.against!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"too many radical changes at once. you've had many months to address the issue in which you could have changed one module at a time and gradually worked to a solution."
"againstc'mon ccp, there has to be another to implement this. a very large and painful kick in the balls certainly isn't the way to go."
"against"
"just say no to the nano nerfif we want to go all nerf crazy, why not nerf things that real-life technology has already shown to be obsolete? we can use lasers to shoot down artillery and missiles, so why not let amarr take out incoming arty rounds and missiles? silly defender missiles. and we can use the super advanced technology of 'mirrors' to deflect incoming laser attacks, so why not let everyone fit mirrors over their hull to nullify laser damage? just saying : "
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"about time it was done"
"against"
"against"
"all the guys in stain that voted should actualy hit the agree button when the post or they r not counted"
"don't make t2 ships useless =/"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"people, be sure to check the \"check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\" box when you are making your post, or your vote won't get properly tallied.thank you for your \"no\" vote on this critical issue.cheers.p.s. my vote was tallied a long time ago, so this post is just a reminder to all of you. peace."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"i just trained interceptors.against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"signed"
"signed"
"against!!"
"against"
"against"
"500% from an mwd dam thats low."
"against this is bull****."
"can we have all the posts in this thread not linked to accounts which have logged in to sisi this week removed?tried it all again tonight, and it is still good.there were some extensive engagement tests, and the nano ships still managed to engage and disengage just fine, they just had more reason to disengage at times.the tests included a bubble-camp .. and it did not end up with a bunch of dead nano-ships, they pretty much all got out."
"against"
"against"
"no, it really is my honest opinion.the only thing i don't really like is the mwd cycle time thing because i don't realy see the point - but even that i can live with.seriously, get in on some of the sisi testing, the whole balance is much better than those in this thread would have you believe."
"against!!"
"against"
"i am completey against this patch in its current form. more development from ccp is essential.i support this thread 110%. time to earn ur free trip each year csm"
"against"
"found the right one :d"
"nerf is too big imo"
"against!"
"well i have tested it and some parts of the change are ok such as the changes to afs and i dont mind the changes to scrams either, but the changes to webs and speed are to much.with the web changes every gallente blaster boat has to fit mwd, scram and web, disruptor is no longer an option because you have to be able to deactivate your opponents mwd to be able to stay in range becuase webs dont slow things down enough anymore. the problem with that though is if you are going up against a blaster boat all you need is ab, scram and web and you can dictate range easily, because you cut there mwd and will have more speed than them with the ab and the web wont slow you down enough to keep you in blaster range that long.also with the changes missiles get a massive boost over turrets, one situation i noticed was with drones, drones when webbed at close range are still quick enough to get under your tracking, ive got virtualy max gunnery skills, and when flying an astarte, i was being attacked my 10 hammerheads t2, seen as they was the only things doing dmg to me i decided to try and kll them, but i found even when webbed they still manage to orbit me at close range and make it virtualy impossible to kill them, which isnt a problem for missile ships.also the changes seem to cater towards numbers > skill, alliances who can put out large numbers with high skilled pilots will like these changes, but smaller alliances who rely on hit and runs and picking off large blobs will suffer, missile spam on sisi is the i-win at the min, this was evident when i flew into the cruisers ffa and just watched cerbs ripping everything apart from whatever range they wanted.vagas seem pathetic on the test server, ive soloed 2 in my jag and astarte, perhaps part of it was down to bad piloting, but there has been other instances where all ship types are ripping vagas apart easily. curses are ok 1v1 or if you can dictate range, but they are awfuly slow now and cant tank at all and rapiers and huginns were getting ripped apart.overall i think the changes to speed is too much, you say they are broken becuase missiles and drones cant hit them, but if missiles can hit them doesnt that mean that missiles are the superior weapon choice becuase they can do everything? the web changes is way to harsh and realy is a big change in gameplay, maybe knock it down 10% but the current change is way to much. the scram change offers a new style of play and is another way to counter nanos, but becomes almost a must fit module combined with the other changes which is somthing ccp say they dont want. speed nerf and web nerfs need throwing out and maybe just reducing speed by alittle is all the is needed and the scram boosts along with the boosts to afs are the only things needed to be introduced."
"holy batman wall of text u got there."
"i don't like this plan:- it is not structured: eventhough the objective is really clear and well stated, the plan doesn't follow a structured path from the objective to solutions, but simply jumps from the objective to solutions.- it is not focused: it seems to me like a bunch of ideas thrown there for the only reason that they can imply some changes to speed. indeed the plan affects too many different things, nerfing even webifiers that is the natural counter of nanos.come on ccp, this is the result of a coffe-break brainstorming. i know you can do better than this.i'm against this specific plan of nerfing nanos, while i'm pro a smart way to avoid reaching too fast speed.st"
"aaaaaaagainst."
"i am against it"
"against"
"against"
"i'm against it."
"against"
"against."
"especially against gimping the blasterships!"
"against"
"i like this thread."
"who cares about nanos? don*t kill blasterboats!!"
"against the nano nerf in the current form."
"we tried blaster ships *a lot*, and if anything they are better than before, so i am not sure where you are comming from on that.i was shooting drones no problem either .. but if your set-up makes that hard, use your drones on their drones.i don't understand your claim that some ships can't tank at all either.there are some awesome tank fits for some of those ships, but people are trying to use them how they used to, and then moaning it doesn't work.missiles need adjusting a bit  not much though, a small tweak on explosion velocity should do it , i agree. however, that does not make the changes bad in general."
"/vote against the nerf"
"vote against the nano nerf"
"againt"
"against"
"against!"
"against!"
"against"
"f*ck you ccp!making raven one of the lightest battleships and nerfing the minmatar bs further into uselessness is just f*cking stupid-check the new stats."
"support"
"against!"
"against"
"save solopvp!"
"against!"
"against"
"against!"
"against"
"against"
"against!"
"against!"
"against. save solo"
"poasting in the loser thread"
"gay"
"against"
"against most stupid nerf ever galaxy should evolve not degrade"
"against"
"i'm against the speed nerf"
"the changes on sisi simply are too aggressive... other simpler changes could achieve the more important corrections without causing so much collateral nerf."
"against."
"ahora creo que si : "
"i'm against the speed nerf"
"against."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"100% against."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against! worst idea for a nerf ever"
"agaisnt again , forgot to support topic :s"
"against!"
"against changing nano in that way."
"i'm for ccp's willing to improve this awesome game, i'm willing to express my attitude to \"nerf\"\changes as \"against\"."
"being a newbie means your passion to test those pretty ships everybody already fly."
"against!"
"against"
"ha ha"
"1.0"
"against!"
"against"
"even if this nerf made game balance better  which i don't think , the cost of customer dissatisfaction is too high.this nerf does more to change the style of eve pvp than to adjust balance in eve pvp. we don't want to play a different space game, we want to play this space game, that's why we are here.the speed balance can be adjusted without creating a new game experience for eve"
"against, it's better to boost missiles a bit"
"signed!"
"against"
"fully against."
"more against the web nerf."
"this nerf is something i'd expect from swg devs."
"there have been many much bigger changes than this in the past.eve survived, and thrived."
"against \"nano\" nerftoo broad of a \"fix\", its like going after a fly on the wall with a trebucet."
"against"
"would it help if i said \"please?\"please?!"
"yep - wheres the problem? why is this taking so long - it should have been implemented 5 years ago..."
"i can see where you got the idea that having t2 frigates for all the hulls would be nice, but i don't think remote repping is the way to go. t1 repping cruisers like the osprey, exequror, and augoror would outperform your variants with less training."
"supported"
"thumb up"
"/signedthis change has forced one of my three accounts into expiration. i cant play with currency only isk, and the isk cost increase has forced me to lose an account as i do not make enough extra isk to cover it."
"so ccp tells the csm and us, the players, that a price increase is not within the pervue of the csm.... i guess that is a little nicer than ccp saying \"stfu plebs! pay it and like it!\" but, the end result is the same isn't it?what i find extremely telling about this issue is ccp's unwillingness to talk about it or even allow discussion of the topic. to me, this translates to they are screwing us, they know they are screwing us, and they don't even feel obligated to admit it. talk about learning in no-uncertain terms where you stand with a company....oh, for the record, i support the op and a full disclosure of this subject by ccp. i also fully support and request a return of further options to the gtc. i.e. 30 day, 90 day, 120 day... etc. not that we are going to get any of these things. after over five years i am fully aware that ccp is not in the business of keeping their customers happy or of being responsible to them in any way.support."
"this topic deserves csm/dev attention."
"support"
"like a jockstrap... i support this."
"support"
"supported"
"support! small frig shuld not be able to take out huge battleship cause of there speed"
"support, we so need this : "
"support, nerf is needed"
"support"
"i have to admit that i havent had much pvp, so i can't really vote for or against it. but as i read a lot in the forums, watched the nano vids and speak to people who do pvp, it seems that the current state is imba, as there is little against these nanos except other nanos.i dunno if those changes are the right adjustments, but basically, i agree."
"about time...."
"get out"
"nanos are good"
"signed"
"i'll throw my support in here just out of spite."
"support, nanos have been overpowered for to long"
"bring back variety, boost misile speeds by 200%"
"aye!!!"
"support."
"hahaha. too funny."
"waiting for reasonable fights to make a comebacksupport"
"support"
"i support this thread."
"/voteyes"
"support"
"support"
"gay"
"awww the carebears are getting outvoted over 2 to 1 : *comforts sobbing nublet*"
"as a curse pilot i dont exactly welcome the nerf but it has been a long time coming... about time too"
"supporting to troll pandemic legion"
"1.0"
"maor nano-tears. this is a long time coming."
"fully support nerfing nanos"
"time for over-powered nano to end."
"ludicrous speed must go or better counters for nano***s."
"adios nanos...you abused the ability...now it's time to lose it."
"what's the phrase i've heard on the forums for years?oh yeah: \"adapt or die\"suck it up whiners. p.s. contract all your nano stuff to me."
"what? are you serious?"
"i'm sorry but you guys  whiners to the nano  whinned first...please. you guys should've learned to adapt or die...this is rediculous."
"carebears?like, for example, people who want the option to run away from a fight rather than get killed?like, for example, nano-ship users?"
"to hell with nanos!"
"full support for this... bring back the p in pvp."
"nerf it!"
"adapt or die lolololololololol"
"this is the issue that has come the closest to making me leave the game.war decs keep me from playing when i want to play and doing what i want to do, merely because i don't always have the time or resources to make sure i'd be safe in the location where i would be playing.currently the only solution for this is for me to eternally stay in a npc corp, which is just ******ed and frustrating.what i'd really like is for concord to only allow empire fighting if the war is mutual ... as it is now, the system is basically the same as if i went up to a police officer and said, \"i hate this person, so i am going to kill them,\" and merely because i told the police i wanted to kill someone, they respond, \"ok. no problem. go ahead.\" what the hell? : as for war decs being \"necessary\" to attack logistics chains, this is already not the case, as many many people have neutral hauling alts to get around this aspect of it. right now, the war dec system is just a way to force many people to pay for two accounts."
"supporting ; "
"an important issue that needs to be addressed asap"
"i support this ."
"this is a horrible idea that you people are only supporting because it's chribba. dreadnoughts are combat ships, and any attempt to make modules specifically to help make them mining ships is awful."
"ok, here it is."
"how about ...remove local in low sec. / null sec. but leave the same as it is now in high sec.best of both worlds ... pvp / pirate crowd is happy and the \"carebear crowd\" is unaffected."
"removing local flat out is a bad idea until they improve scanning.make it constellation."
"it is not so cut and dry. i think local is fine."
"yeah so do i m8, but figured i would find a happy middle of the road i can see how it really plays a part in low sec / null sec."
"i haz idea.local sucks. no local sucks. let's go 50/50.systems randomly lose local for a random period of time due to ion storm."
"/signed"
"an easy solution is just making ppl not appear in local chat until they vocalize themself with a chat message..else make it possible to disable local chat so that you cant see it and no one else can see you since you are'nt in that channel... simply not joining the local channel unless you want to.."
"i think your incorrect it is reported to your computer. displaying the information is just flipping a flag. completely stripping it out would require a much more concerted effort and probably a lot of programming time that could be better used on other aspects of the game.just like one alliance first hacked and got the standings in the local window and then we all got it because it was an unfair advantage, this is pretty much the same thing, that's why ccp has never removed it except for that hiccup once upon a time, they can't figure out how to do so economically. personally many of those calling for removal of local will not find the situation they want if it is removed. it would actually make the game harder for both the hunted and the hunter. the hunted would most likely retreat to empire, if they leave hi sec it will be only to do exploration sites and generally in groups becasue any other activity would just be to dangerous. they'll either look to stay in npc corps to avoid war declares or gravitate to that as the hunters become more bored in low and 0.0 sec and look to empire for targets.the hunters would become bored because of decreasing targets. in both cases ultimately folks would probably leave the game faster than the current average.it would probably lead to a slow decline of the game at best and at worst a very drastic decline of the game as what happened to swg"
"leaving local chat a recent chat, is the best e easy way imho. evolving che scan system will be needed of course.i don't think it will become boring. we speak about pvp in general, not only 1vs1. so you need a fleet and an organization, and so eliminating local intellychat would improve cooperations: some explore to hunt down, some gate camp. not simply wait at gates or at belts to kill people. camping is not pvp imho.even now people remain in game corp to not risk a war, so changing the local system would not alter their gameplay and a recent chat wouldn't hurt them.leave the possibility to drop probe and scan pos would render hunting people fun and easy. freighter fleet in null sec doesnt change, becouse you have to have a recon ship in fleet to scan gate and system ahead, so what's the difference? only that you will not have the exact number and name of people in system. today noone could stealth himself without a cloacking device from au away. this is a mess. maybe some powerful ships would emit so much em-noise to speak loud in local chat, but what for a ship shutten down whit all systems off? the tactical sceniarios would be really vast. : "
"i don't think this is a very good idea.you can want to change this so it doesn't show anyone in local, but don't go whining in c&p when someone sneaks up on you and pops you.doing this would also make it much more difficult to tell if there are pirates in the area..war targets...alliance and corp members...it would make being in system a terrifying experience for some and a rush for others.leave it be."
"eh, not so sure, while it is used as a tactical tool by people, the potential victims could easily use it the other way around, the pirates use local to see who is in system, the victimes can use it to see who is yellow/ flashy red"
"the bolded mostly, but this entire post in general also states while it's not the best idea, and since you are here saying how its \"being used as a tactical tool\" im assuming your a non pvper, and if this was implemented, you would go whine on c&p very quickly, because at least local gives you the opportunity to scout for potential dangers, like you most certainly do now, but you probably dont realize it, and if you dont, well you better start, i do it without thinking, and fate decides to punish me when i dont, apparently the caldari have been camping neutral systems  concord, interbus  in gallente high sec, most of the time, i check local, make a quick scna down, to make sure no reds, or war targets pop up  or people i know, so i can start a conversation with them  anyway, im gonig to my corp, and im in my little salvage boat destroyer, and i come out of local, and see what systems i will be passing through  it was a 12 jump journey  and i didnt check local, im in the star map, and boom one of the caldari militia is camping the gate, im in star map, and hear the locking sound and think, oh well, it's a noob who thinks he can kill me or someone did it by accident, then the ship starts shooting me and it is then i realize its a wt, and i didnt check local, and look what happened, he shot me to like 50% structure before i got to the gateso, start using local to your advantage instead of finding a way around it, which you are going to regret anyway"
"i disagree"
"support in theory. the exact roll out would need a lot of work though"
"making local a recent speakers channel would also mean it \"cannot be utilized as a tactical tool\"."
"i love this idea. this would have covop frigates in higher demand, and can let said covops and recons scout without being known. having it be in 'delayed' mode would still allow people to talk to each other, but their presence would still be hidden until they decide to reveal it."
"no local, so when my mate jumps into a system i.m in, someone whom i may not seen for a while,who is in a different corp or alliance, and we may even be at war with each other.means we can no longer pass the time of day with plesantries or smack. how against the ethos of eve. friendships begin and are formed through the local channel.no longer being able to exchange a few words with passing pilots is a massive down side to losing local. a second is when chasing enemy gangs it will be harder to track them down and follow because not every alliance has the numbers of goonswarm who could in therory place a covert ops pilot on every gate to moniter commings and goings.i believe local is a vital aspect of this game."
"if you read the thread, you'd see that people have suggested using constellation chat as auto-updating and you can chat in there."
"dont have constalation channel active, have enougth without it."
"that's as useful an argument as the other folks who say \"if you don't like local, then turn it off\".the point is... constellation chat spans too great a distance as far as people are concerned. they don't use it because they don't want to juggle all the conversations to look for anyone speaking directly to them.local covers that area, right there... so you can gab with whoever you like. and if you happen to notice someone threatening, then you can take appropriate action.what isn't factored in, is the ships onboard sensors. there's no particular reason why you should know the instant someone jumps into the area. i don't think that ships have little beacons that ring the doorbell and cry out \"honey, i'm home!\"but that's exactly what we're calling a problem, when a spy wants to sneak unseen into enemy territory to spy on the gathering fleet.\"i'll just creep up to this gate. hopefully no one is on the other end. either way, i'll cloak as soon as i get there, and sneak up to viewing range of their pos. just gotta make this jump first...\" ***honey!!! i'm home!!!***so taking local away from everyone who is abusing it as a tactical intel tool... really shouldn't affect you who are only looking to gab with friends. you can just as easily ask \"anyone around here know where to find a villard wheel?\" without seeing the faces of the people who will want to hurt you for asking.and as for knowing if friends or enemies are nearby... there's that little button for \"onboard scanner\" too."
"that may be, we dont know how ccp would implement it. the standings data was always available to anyone by doing a get info on the portrait in local. do you see any hacks that give a listing of all ships in system beyond the 13-au range of your ships scanner? is it because theyre not there?one of the points of this change is to make the game more complex. if that means harder for you, then thats a subjective assessment."
"interesting topic, nice to see these are being looked at! a few things i'll comment on...component manufacturingread this a few times before and does sound appealing. i like the idea of manufacturers being able to 'specialise' in a field of manufacturing if components were required  such as components for afterburners would be completely different to, say, railguns . of course, adding new skills would be needed so long as there aren't a huge amount of them, or highly ranked. as for making higher meta items, would be nice being able to possibly create them with some extra bits but as to how  either extra items or buying a bpo/bpc from lp store etc  would be interesting to see.ship variationalso sounds good, depending on what variations we have. as a guess, maybe gallente ships could have things oriented to drones, blasters and speed perhaps  or anything, even shield/missile variants . but, would it affect the actual amount of rig slots available? since we have 3 for t1 ships and 2 for t2 ships, might be a toss up between having a boost to your ships inherent bonuses  example: a dominix variant could get +20% drone damage/hp per bs level with, or without penalty to something else  or using normal rigs. of course, would there be a way of adding more rig slots? considering the rig fitting window has about 8 slots, maybe variants could have more rig slots as well? should be fun either way.t2 bpo'si wouldn't like to see them seeded on the market at all, nor do i want to see the return of the lottery. however, i would like to see t2 bpo's issued from either a r&d corps lp shop  specific to race, so amarr r&d corps would see lasers, crystals, amarr drones, armour repairers and hardeners for example  for a high lp cost  the better the item will obviously cost you more lp , or you exchange your rp for a bpo. in that case, a nanite engineering agent could offer you an expander ii bpo  and any other bpo that requires nanite engineering  for x amount, wouldn't be a mass amount of bpo's available, but would also put invention in a bit of a pickle. a third option would be to have a corp based \"rp store\", much like the lp store for corps. so, if you have 4 r&d agents for one particular r&d corp it would be counted as a single rp store where your combined rp from all fields would go towards various t2 bpo's and their components and limited then by race.on a similar theme, maybe it's time to take a closer look at science jobs in stations and the general lack of me/pl/copy slots  from high-sec all the way to npc null-sec , and how more people can use them without the need of getting a pos. perhaps with standings for that corp you have your own private set of slots, and gain more as your standing rises  such as 2 of any slot type for standings around 4.00 and working up to about 5 or 6 nearing 9.00+ standing . could tie in faction standing to it as well perhaps, who knows. either way, needs to be looked at more, especially if all these new s&i changes will come about!high-sec woesthis, in all fairness, will probably always be an issue. for myself, i have no business in low-sec because it's not that great compared to what i can do in high-sec along with some unnecessary risks that some folks don't want to take. i believe many people prefer null-sec  0.0  over low-sec  i for one do anyway, much bigger rewards there, but at a risk which i'm willing to take . how to go about making low-sec more popular i don't really know, but perhaps something that can appeal to both our combat and non-combat pilots out there  fw isn't really the answer, but at least helped it .well that's all, should be fun to see what happens to all these and look forward to seeing how these might be applied!"
"i am all for supporting the high sec based players and promoting their fun in the game. i do like pvp and i am member of a \"pvp\" 0.0 alliance, however, i really find carebearing also to be fun for limited amount of time in the office every day.there is no need to add content to high sec aspect of eve. what it needs is challenge. honestly. what this side of the game needs is challenge. it's not challenging enough to manufacture something. you can build a bs in a few weeks after you start your industrial character and in a year, or a bit more, you can actually produce the t2 equivalent  provided you follow the whole chain youself, research, getting funds to buy bs bpos, invention, etc . in two years, you can build almost all capital ships. the main problem is that you can do that on your own. invention was supposed to fill that hole, but honestly, it's just tedious and just promotes the use of science alts that never get played. it's not challenging per se.what 0.0 dwellers seek out there is not so much pvp or fame, but the structured environment in which to interact with other players and accomplish a common goal  kick bob's or nc's butt for example, believe it or not camping a gate for four hours just to get podded in hell-lag has its perverse moments of fun . that's where the challenge is.why not give the same thing to high sec dwellers ? make it so difficult to build a single t1 bs that at least 10 people have to work together  by making it so that it needs a hundred different components, ten of each, cheap to produce but requiring too many slots for a person with just 3 alts - just a crazy idea  to get it done. make it so difficult to produce a marauder or a black ops that only a high sec alliance of 100 people can do it. maybe do something similar with modules.don't fear that ship/module production will take a hit. it will, until high sec rises to meet the challenge, but who cares ? let us blob in t1 frigs and cruisers in 0.0 instead of bses and capitals. might even make things a bit more interesting for a while, and losing a bs might actually mean something. win all around for high sec and 0.0.same goes for missioning. don't make it more profitable, make it more challenging. make so that in order to do a lvl4 in high sec  thus no pvp  you need 2 bs, 2 cruisers and a logistics ship - maybe even a command, and definitely an indy to do the salvaging/looting afterward. i'd love to be able to do a mission for laughs with 3 other guys using eve voice. right now, there is no need for that. yes, isk input in eve will take a hit for a while, but again who cares ? people will adapt to this and there is already too much isk around in wallets to keep people buying until things stabilize."
"\"eva  csm ankhesentapemkah  commented that research should also be a lot more dynamic, as research is currently too static and predictable. she suggested having a more variable outcome, as well as unique and special rewards that could be obtained through researching. an example was to add tech 2 blue print originals as a very rare outcome of an r&d process, as well as other new and unique items.\"i like the idea but not unless there are heavy skill reqs and the chance to get t2bpo is 1% out of 100%.otherwise current t2 bpo owners will uproar too much and invention might become useless because of the large amount of t2bpos.it would be nice to implement a time requirment such as you can't get more then t2 bpos per year via that process combined with the above percent that i posted i think that it would be balanced."
"the problem lies in the fact the people have combat mains and industry alts because the difference in skills required is very wide. for manufacturing in particular it would be nice to need the following manufacturing skills based on their current combat counterparts:spaceship command - industryfrigates and destroyers - small hull constructioncruisers, bc - medium hull construction  requires small hull iv bs - large hull construction  requires medium hull iv capital ships - capital hull construction  requires large hull iv t2 ship - advanced <racial> hull construction  requires industry v, ships need this skill plus level v hull other possibilities:navigation - propulsion systems constructiongunnery/missile launcher operation - weapons systems constructionelectronics/shield - support systems constructionhull upgrades/engineering - internal systems construction"
"being fatalistic about lag comes from years of sitting on one side of gate or the other dying or being liberated of your ship while you wait for the grid to load. ccp has seriously conditioned us into accepting this lag as the status quo and we believe there is nothing that can be done about it; hence the apathy displayed by the eve community as a whole to provide pressure on ccp toward improving lag caused by massive fleet engagements.we recently had a titan pilot dd friendlies and allow the enemy to escape partly due to a laggy node. this is how influential the issue with the robustness of the eve servers is. the strength of the node becomes one of the major deciding factors in the outcome of major fleet battles in eve. the skill, determination and decisions of our pilots and fleet commanders become secondary and diluted by a faltering node.we see this happening all the time and just throw up our hands, shake our heads and utter that's just the way it is. - apathyccp can fix this and they are tentatively showing slow signs that they will in the future, at some point apply some effort to improvements to fix server lag. however, who knows when? we just need to pressure them into knowing this is the real and urgent priority to us, the pilots of eve, not all this other crap they are doing to \"improve eve\". when did core playability in mmo games become secondary to cosmetic improvement?laggy massive fleet engagements is a major playability issue to 0.0 alliance. we just don't know it because like pavlov's dog we've been conditioned over many years to ignore it and just live with it."
"let me just ask you this then - do you really think that they're unaware of the lag problems? remember, the devs play this game, and they're disproportionately pvpers. the old-timers among them were suffering lag before the game got out of beta, and they've been suffering it for the 5+ years since. i'm sure that they would, to a man, love to have silky-smooth responsiveness in thousand-man fleet ops. but they can't neglect game development to do it, since that's how they get new subscribers. and before you say \"less lag = more subscribers\", no, it doesn't. noobs don't experience lag, since they don't play in l4 hubs or fleet blobs, and even if they have discovered jita, it's an occasional thing. i'd love to see ccp rewrite the game's code, install a brand-new supercomputer, and run a fibre optic line from rekjavik to my modem. but it's not realistic. hence fatalism - they want it changed, i want it changed, and it'll change eventually, on its own schedule. the ten thousandth whine thread on the topic won't change that."
"i whole heartedly agree; but as you hinted on before, this is way more than just a server side problem. this end-result of their programming methods can be seen in our single-thread clients.why should your game freeze when you open up the corp history tab on a corp hopper?why should your game freeze when you accidentally open up your corp's sanctionable actions?why should your game freeze when you open up a hangar with a lot of items?one of the biggest killers is the fact that even when they modified the client to use directx9 graphics, they still maintained a single-threaded experience."
"while i'm not against them putting energy into these fleet issues in theory... i kinda feel that way too much energy goes into supporting the massive fleet stuff already.it does have marquee value, and they can show it off, and a few alliances really love them.. but the bulk of the eve population will never see one of these fights outside the news section and have very little interest in them.yet developer resources pour into null sec war mechanics  more ships, bigger ships, alliance toys, etc etc  to a detriment to other play styles.in other words, the stuff you are asking for is already the favored child of the development process, not some ignored little aspect. unfortunately it is also a really hard problem to solve which is why it always looks like so little progress is being made."
"the amount of time wasted on vanity projects such as the 'walking' expansion suggests more should have been about this by now."
"this balancing issue must not be forgotten."
"don't use it. probably never will but from the stats i have seen from many fights with arty ships in the ranks i tend to agree something needs to be done for the poor ducttapers."
"/not signed"
"the optimal range on this system is pathetic and it needs to be addressed."
"/signed"
"/+1"
"/+100%"
"i support this."
"100% supported"
"very /signed.having a relative who suffers severe color-blindness due to a major sickness in his youth  he says watching movies now is the same as old b&w ones , i believe this will help.also, stealth poke for ui overhaul"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"i'm for this"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"definitely! as well as corp deliveries ..."
"/signed"
"c-c-c-combobreaker!!!!...nah, only joking /signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signedat least fix audit log containers in corp hangars."
"it would be rather nice."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"i agree this is an exploit.if you choose to join a corp that is in a war you should be made to stay in that corp till war is over period."
"yes, it's much easier than changing an entire mechanic or warfare. it used to be implemented, so just put it back."
"support, as this is an obvious exploit. but honestly, the whole war mechanic itself needs to be looked at. it's completely broken and doesn't at all serve any purpose anymore, and is basically only used for griefing. wars should be between corps and/or alliances, have a beginning, a goal, and an end. for example, if you wardec a 0.0 alliance, you should have to show your face in their space once in awhile if you want to maintain the war, instead of sitting in empire like a coward."
"i also support thisneeds to be an exploit"
"all though this subject was covered two days earlier>"
"i too agree that this should be considered an exploit and that it needs to be resolved."
"this fix is way way ez.simply make so u can't be fully accepted until your docked.the accepting corp could \"accept\" your application but it won't go into effect until you dock.problem solved."
"whichever gm you talked to must have been daft.leaving a corp to avoid wardec and rejoining later is a bannable offense, and thats clearly what he's doing."
"i agree with the thread title, i didn't read the text even if they can leave the corp, but remain a target until the wardec is over, i don't see a problem with that."
"okay guys hate to shoot some things down but here is reality...isk farmers make corps now... they infiltrate corps....shops use a character that they get into a corp in xyz alliance so that character can fly around and grab loot from the can farms the ratters use to store faction loot.they don't use the character much and anyone that uses this character tends to be an english speaking person.everyone has farmers and/or a farmer loot gatherer in their alliance and they don't know it... especially 0.0 space holding alliances.so, forcing restrictions on what agents they can use if they are not in a corp would just force them into a corp we can't wardec anyhow.you can never wardec an isk farmer corp, they don't have roles and drop the corp when the war is declared and jump into another corp within minutes.benn tried, tested and that is how they dodge wardecs.no amount of petitions for exploits do any good, gms say they can do it all day long and there is nothing to stop them.basically, the joke is on you for going after the farmers.. your lost isk and in the meantime they lost a grand total of 30 seconds - that's how long it takes for them to dock at the end of their mission and drop corp, accept an app in the next corp and keep trucking.the game mechanics are all for farmers at this stage.- they can evade wardecs- they can evade pvp by cloaking/logging- they can transfer isk via market transactions safely- they suicide alts in the ice fields at uptime to prevent ganks.- they are an immense drain on resourcesi am sure i have missed something....all of these ideas about kicking them out into corps is all fine and good but dodging a wardec should not be allowed.it would work if:- you could not leave a corp with an active or declared war- they were forced into corps.then macro hunter groups would actually clean them out easily."
"solution: every 10 cycles of mining, the person at the computer must do something that would be easy for a person but near impossible for all but the best macro programs. internet sites use those crazy picture codes, have the person at the computer input the code or do some sort of calculation.anything that makes mining more interactive will work. hope to see this in the industry patch."
"u want to stop isk farmers and isk spammers? just dont buy isk. its pretty easy.but i support this thread anyways :d"
"/signed"
"is that why i have reported 10 farmers so far and they have not been banned, not even one of them?i get the usual ' we will investigate the issue further ' response and a month later all the farmers are still up and farming. isk farming benefits only ccp hence why they arent really doing anything to fight them in the first place.**** ccp"
"something to keep in mind for everyone who keeps saying \"isk farmers are easy to spot.. i can see them, why can't ccp?\"....ccp has a somewhat different burden then playing when it comes to tracking down cheaters. they really can not act based off someone 'looking' like a macroer  as opposed to someone with multiple or free accounts sitting and neurotically playing  since they have actual money  and potentially liability  on the line. if a player gets it wrong, they get a bit of egg on their face and maybe feel bad, but probably don't care all that much. if ccp gets it wrong their bottom line is effected and they might potentially get into an argument with the credit card company about improper denial of service,.. which will cause a fine from the credit card company. and those can really eat into your pocket if you are a moderaly small buisness like ccp."
"covetors are still used to mine with more often than you may think. covetors are often used to mine in low sec and 0.0 situations where security is lacking or war time conditions exsist. less tears are shed over losing a 20m ship vs 100m ship.also for fun, fit a 1mn ab or a civilian shield booster in the med slot, works nicely too."
"the training times for the covetor are way too long compared to the next step up. it is the only t1 ship besides the iteron 5 that requires 5 in its primary skill..."
"agreed on both points. and i would also vote for the astrogeology reduced to level 3.@ treeloxthat's right, but it isn't an argument against this whole idea, right?"
"no it is not, but i dont really see much of a need to lower the requirements. the only benifit i see to lowering the requirements is that macrominers could be pushed out into the belts quicker. otherwise, i see no real need for this change, and i honestly believe that i would say that if i was starting over from scratch again."
"i see nothing wrong with adding more slots to the mid. however they will be relatively useless without additional pg/cpu.i see no reason to change the skill requirements."
"while lowering the requirements would not do much for the hard core focused miners, it would do wonders for those who are part time miners. right now unless you want to invest some serious time into skilling barges you have the effect of 'quick into retriever, stuck there'.the analogy for combat ships would be like having frigates, destroyers, then nothing till t2 battle-cruisers. fine for someone who all they are doing is training up for the big nasty combat ships but would kinda screw anyone who was only dipping in and wants a gradual progression."
"except destroyers don't obsolete frigs, cruisers don't obsolete destroyers, etc...the covetor certainly obsoletes the retriever."
"depends on where in the game you are talking. in mission running  which is often compared to mining  for instance, destroyers do obsolete frigates, cruisers obsolete destroyers, battle-cruisers obsolete cruisers, and battleships obsolete battle-cruisers."
"well the descriptions havent been changed yet, and the fact of the matter is that igs is full of roleplay, where you really don't want to mess things up with fw ooc posters, cas is way more dead then a zombie, and caod just isnt the place to throw fw discussions in, as will be felt by both fw and alliance players. as it is now, most stuff is posted in general, where it doesnt belong either.nothing and i repeat nothing in forum descriptions, sections or threads points to info about fw, so the person who wants to read about it has to skim through everything to find anything. on the boards is where the forum pvp should be happening, where the vendettas shud rise, where ppl can read at work about what battles with what results are happening, and that will keep ppl in the game, fafa fw is concerned. all you can see now is the stats page and thats it. and even there nuthing is happening, besides more and more ppl quitting on fw.im not even involved in fw, heck, im not even actively playing. i just visit these boards to see if fw is hot enuf to get me back into the game, and tbh what i see in terms of facilitating from ccp isnt very encouraging. ur doing something halfway, n not finishing it off or doing it properly. learn from other rvr games where things are indeed kicking. not having flamewars is bad, coz it only shows there is rivalry and competition, which is what fw desperately needs. dont be afraid to put some extra forum mod attention on it, u shud be stimulating this if fw is to survive as a viable concept at all.giving fw a forum is not putting it away in a ghetto, it means facilitating and stimulating it, giving it public face and recognition. it is stuffed away in a ghetto as it is now. heck, there isnt even a ghetto at present! as it is now, theres just nothing. giving it a platform = not hiving it away. if you cant see that, you just never did any rvr."
"i stand corrected. there isnt just nothing. no. there's a sticky in the eve general discussion.and? hold your breath, there's actually info stickied in the *drums* game development section. now why couldn't i think of that?"
"okay, for the sake of clarification, im going to elucidate you all on what the matter at hand is.the issue, raised by players and ccp and supported by a silent majority, is that carriers are becoming the new battleship. its a matter of simple mudflation and the progression of scope creep in eve online. the issue is not solo carriers, but fleets of carriers. yes, carriers need support, but right now the best support for carriers is unquestionably yet more carriers. we want carriers to be on the front lines, but we do not want carriers to be the front lines themselves.in order for developers to maintain interest among veteran players, they increase the marketability of their product by continuously releasing new features with new expansions. as time progresses, the levels  explicitly or implicitly  achievable by older players moves ahead farther and farther, yet newer players  or in many cases, simply players who fly ships that require less skillpoints  remain at the same initial starting point. this is known as scope creep, and it is bad for the game because ccp does not create ships so that they can be discarded after the next expansion; they want to see their roles preserved and they want to see time and money spent modeling and coding paying off as an investment. overall, scope creep leaves many players who do not want to participate in the constant vertical migration out in the cold. factional warfare, released in the last expansion, is an admirable attempt to turn back scope creep and give new players and smaller ship pilots something to do, but it does not address the core issues with the most profound instance of scope creep in eve, referred to as capital ships online."
"to substantiate the importance of this topic, allow me to show you some samples of developer quotes taken from eve-tv interviews from the pvp tournament in quarter 1 this year, viewable here"
"carrier change ideasover the past year, many suggestions have been raised for how to change carriers. some were good, some not so good. here are a few sample suggestions. one from zarch aldain from the establishment, one from ernest graefenberg from razor alliance, and one from yours truly.zarch aldains idea:"
"admittance:my ideas for how to modify fighter damage to allow a specialized carrier to do significantly more damage than current need some work. people want to be able to do more damage with fighters if they occupy all of their highslots with drone damage modules, but hardly anyone trains advanced drone interfacing to v  let alone level iv  and 1500 max dps like now is a little lackluster, and something like 2500 dps for a carrier  with some lowered ability to hit smaller ships maybe?  could be more reasonable. i don't exactly have a clear idea for how to fix that, though. however, i think my idea for \"nerfing\" spider tanks and incentivizing repairing support and not other capitals is very good, and something at least similar to it would be integral to the game behaving as the developers envisioned. recommended changes: at base, carriers can deploy 5 fighters/drones of their own  125mbit/sec bandwidth , but can still delegate up to 10  including original 5  to gang members with carrier v. a mothership can use 10 fighters on its own  250mbit/sec bandwidth  at base but has 20 overall to use at once. change dcus so that they give +2 fighters/drones controllable by the carrier instead of +1, and +50mbit/s bandwidth. introduce new highslot module that does something like o disallows fighter delegation to gangmateso enables the carrier to use new \"bomber\" fighters that do 5x the damage of fighters, but have 1000m signature resolution for their turrets, are slower, occupy 5000m3  like a normal fighter , but you can only launch five at once. o disrupts the warp and jump driveo lasts 5-10 minutes and consumes fuel  or not?  similar to siege modeo problem: this makes a carrier's max dps similar if not the same as a mothership's. maybe give motherships an extra damage bonus to bombers, so they can do around 3500 dps  4375 for a nyx ?  consider dividing the drone bay into specific bays: one for ordinary drones and one for fighters and bombers. make the regular drone bay 1000-2000m3 just in case the fact that carriers can carry thousands of light, medium, and heavy combat and logistics drones bothers you.  it's not really a huge issue for me, but i dunno, it does kind of rub me the wrong way from time to time   reduce capital remote armor repairer, capital shield transporter, and capital energy transfer array rep amount and cap use by 1/3  don't freak out until you get to the end, please  vastly reduce cpu requirements for capital energy transfer arrays, capital shield transporters, and drone control units  increase the cpu need for officer smartbombs; many officer and faction items are harder to fit than other meta levels, but smartbombs are an exception change triage module to have something like the following bonuses  note that some bonuses are already there currently :1. +1000% bonus to sensor resolution  faster locking  2. immunity to electronic warfare3. cannot move, warp, or jump  probably, maybe could negotiate the ability to move on grid 4. 2x bonus to capital remote rep/shieldtransporter/energytransfer amount  more efficient  5. 2x bonus to capital armor repairer and capital shield booster amount6. .5x bonus to capital armor repairer and capital shield booster duration  more repaired, but harder on cap use  7. immunity to capital remote armor repairers, capital energy transfer arrays, and capital shield transporters  but not large, medium, or small ones 8. 1000x capacitor need for electronic warfare modules9. cannot use its own fighters but can still delegate them to gangmates  probably?  10. small boost to capital logistics module range? reduce skill prerequisite for tactical logistics reconfiguration to logistics iv instead of logistics v"
"the idea behind the \"5-fighter nerf\" was that it was meant to incentivize carriers repairing the support instead of just other carriers. only the support can use the fighters, and if the support dies, then the fleet has lost their effective total dps. to prevent this, the carriers have to keep the support alive; basically returning them to their original ideal role. the problem is not just that carriers and motherships can  at least sometimes  operate without support, but that in many cases the best support for carriers is yet more carriers, leading to unwanted alpha-classing.carriers aren't used to repair support in battles very commonly now because of lots of things both in and out of player control. people can't rep their support too effectively because of things like lag, where a subcapital ship will be dead by the time the repairer activates, making them want to rep other carriers instead. in addition, carriers always have much higher resistances than subcapitals, making it more efficient  in terms of hp/second  to rep other carriers. further, carriers are more expensive individually than subcapitals, so people want to rep those since it hurts more to lose a carrier than just a bs.making repairers extra worthwhile in triage mode means that carriers have to use triage to gain the real benefits to support, but also means that they can't spider tank their carriers anymore because of the immunity to capital logistics modules. this puts an upper limit on the number of carriers or motherships in a fleet, where at larger fleet sizes  100-200+  they are still somewhat useful, but i imagine people would find it too risky and would not want to bring them out because they would be afraid of getting primaried by an entire fleet and losing their carrier or mothership. to this, i would point out that a standard archon has 31 times the effective hitpoints of your standard fleet megathron, and the archon in triage can repair itself with one capital repairer that repairs as much as four and has the cap use of just two. if a battleship fleet primaries that archon and the archon's fleet attacks the enemy battleships, the battleships may have destroyed a carrier worth maybe 2.0 billion isk altogether, but the archon's fleet has destroyed at least as much in tech 2-fitted battleships and almost guaranteed substantially more in the same time frame.if you want to repair other carriers, you can still triage a carrier and have it repair an attack carrier, but if you want to repair a carrier in triage, you have to use subcapitals, such as logistics cruisers. a carrier in triage can transfer energy and repair armor or shield on a handful of logistics cruisers, and while that may not be able to keep a carrier alive under a fleet's firepower, it will still prolong the carrier's life at the very least. what's more, with a repairer's power split by three  maybe more, it's up for debate , a carrier can repair multiple ships with greater efficiency but also adjust which modules to activate to retain cap stability. the maximum amount that a carrier could repair remotely has definitely decreased, and now there is a weak link in spider tanking's chain, but overall i think that people could adjust over time and, in the end, accept the benefits of greater efficiency, more ships repairable at once, more granular activation of logistics modules  better cap stability , and more. still, maybe you could consider adding in a script that gives you basically the same triage module that you have now, just for fun."
"it could be the case that they may have to revisit the ewar immunity of motherships, retaining their immunity to conventional warp scramblers but removing the immunity to damps, ecm, and webs, since otherwise there is no weak link in the chain to take advantage of, but whether or not it is necessary is up for debate. other little things to consider buffing:fighter cost - they're a little on the expensive side. if they got nerfed, maybe it'd be safe enough to make them a bit cheaper? skill prerequisites - carriers require months of skills exclusive to capital ships that have absolutely no benefit to subcapitals, such as advanced spaceship command and advanced drone interfacing. ccp has already tried to alleviate this by introducing the black ops battleship, but still, please consider removing some skill prerequisites, such as jump drive operation v, advanced spaceship command v, and so on. this makes the blow a lot lighter for people who were in the middle of training for capitals but feel disappointed that they're going to be nerfed. and the skill training time is boring and causes harmful stratification between newbies and veterans, and thats bad enough.mothership buffs - please consider some of the ideas for the remote ecm burst and the clone vat bay published in this thread:"
"how about we fire zulupark and nozh?"
"i would like to see a lot more thought poured into carriers, and this is a good start. for now, signed and i wait with anticipation."
"bane is a smart and eloquent man"
"supportedhopefully this stays on topic, it was an excellent read. i was gonna ask for a tl;dr but it's actually worthwhile because there are good rationales in there."
"i endorse this message.**note: there are no emotes to suggest that i am joking."
"tl;dr version?????simply put are you pro or con zuluparks proposal concerning carriers?"
"stop whining and read the whole thing. it is much more in depth *than zulupark's* and you're being rude."
"bane, i have no idea whether i agree with your ideas and those of others that you bring forward , but they're at least interesting. i'm not wholly opposed to the state of carriers as-is, but i'd likely be in favour of a well-considered change to how they operate, as long as it ultimately made sense. carriers being endgame is a problem, and while i don't think it's as bad as zulupark's dev blog made it out to be, it's something i'd like to see addressed. capitals are for old, rich players who need a big hammer for a specific nail, they're not supposed to be pwnmobiles for the sake of it. i'm not sure any of the specific changes proposed are the right one, but i think you're at least barking up the right tree. tl;dr - read the damn post, cretin."
"then why reference zulupark in the subject line, if they are more \"in depth\" more thought out?  than zuluparks?i can not be arsed to read anything more than 2-3 lines long if it contains his name in it. i'm sure you understand why....."
"zulupark's dev blog is the single most prominent example of the discussion bane wants to have regarding the roles of capital ships in the future, and he referenced it for that reason. and if you can't be arsed to read it, then stop being arsed to clutter up the thread whining for a secretary. either participate in the thread, or stfu/gtfo."
"understood, and that's fine. basically zulu has expressed discontent with 'capitals online.' based on that thought and similar discussions, bane constructed a solution that seems to lie parallel with the views and concerns of the developers. the carrier fixes he proposes attempt to shift it to more of a support role rather than it's current role as the quantum unit of fleet engagement."
"i am always stunned when i hear such sentiments from dev's, that they didnt \"expect\" capital ships to become the next bs. ofc they would, it only evolution they provided in game. everyone one wants bigger, badder, more pew pew. basic human nature, and the dev's perfectly fed it when they introduced carriers 2-ish years ago.anyways, back to the op, i am currently reading it, mulling it over, might even sleep on it and get back to you all later. rome wasnt built in a day, you know.p.s. herschel yamamoto, change your rag a bit more frequently, imo.p.s.s. fahtim meidires, at least we kept bane's thread in the top 5, while you educated me ; "
"this isn't the first issue that was initially voted down when it was too vague, and then reconstructed to specificity and posted in the assembly hall to gain fresh support and force it on the table. so it may be that's the goal. if it was presented poorly the first time, hopefully this suffices."
"bomber fighters?lol, so dreads will be usefull only for pos killing.also, imo fighter delegation need some nerf, because mostly during sub-capital ship fights carriers just sitting near poses and delegating fighters."
"this was all discussed."
"bumping this jeez."
"being a carrier pilot myself, i have to say, they have become the new battleship of eve tbh. carriers dont need to be nerfed combat wise tbh, they suck at it, the only thing they dont suck at combat wise is engaging targets that are smaller than themselves. so, carriers were meant to support fleets right?i tend to use mine in several roles:firepower  fighters carrying supplies,  warp bubbles, extra ammo, scan probes, scan ships, cap charges, scripts, extra drones, etc. transporting ships to the frontlines, generally when we know longer-term engagements are going to go down.but, i also use it for logistical purposes, such as putting up pos towers, keeping them running, etc.  i don't want a jump freighter and i dont want a rorquoral, as much as they would help with this. so the only combat duty it has is remote repping and assigning fighters, so how about...remove all ability for them to control their own fighters  it sounds harsh, but makes sense , but increase the number of fighters they can control.  think this was stated above, or something similar to it give fighters the ability to use some kind of stasis webification  but not warp inhibition, that would waaaayyy overbalance things make them more of a mobile station and less of a bulldozer  more corp hangar space, and maybe even a \"public hangar\" space for alliance or blue members now, here is my favorite idea. give fighters and other drones the ability to \"engage enemy drones\" so, instead of the carrier's fighters bulldozing everything in sight, you can maintain a sort of \"drone superiority\" and then work on the enemy's ships. in conjunction with this, give fighters better damage against drones/other fighters, and then give them 1/2 ish damage against battleship sized targets for instance, or as was stated above create a new class of fighter such as a bomber. i personally think this idea is awesome, because it could create some epic \"dogfights\" in addition to giving carriers a role that makes sense.nuff said."
"see, you gotta kinda prove that bit before we go any further.list the names of your silent majority - otherwise refrain from making the claim.use the phrase \"me and my alliance mates\"."
"voting for lavista vista to be kicked from the csm council.flaming fellow csm delegates without adding anything constructive to the topic at hand seems like a display of disrespect, shortsightedness and plain utter stupidity."
"bob, yet again trying to stunt game balance in favor of in-game vested interests, deploy to counter bane \"i-nerfed-titans\" glorious' ideas, more as this develops"
"what if  with fixing current bombs  ccp added either new class of torpedo bombers, or new weapons for sbs that did sufficient damage to capital ships. 99% grid reduction for citadel launchers? to prevent them from being used against pos modules instead of dreds they could get very tiny range  so pos guns will always slaughter them ."
"haters get out.voting to stop capital inflation 08'"
"or maybe i don't think the minority should be able to claim they are speaking for the majority when pushing an agnda which suits their vested interests?you get that, right?"
"supported"
"i enjoy this one here"
"good idea"
"this is really a lot of work, between nerfing nano ships and caps. wouldn't it just be easier to do a general skillpoint reset along with a 15 million sp cap?"
"just to be clear, is this the part that would be escalated? there are several different ideas brought up in your writeup, but it isn't completely clear which ones would be the ones proposed to ccp if this passes."
"lots of words that i generally agree with."
"as i said, these ideas are just sample solutions to the problem; what ccp decides to do is entirely up to them. all three will be included in the submission template for them to read, and they will likely give their opinions on their viability. escalation in this case is as the topic says, a discussion of the issue of carrier spam. ccp has no obligation to give a flying fart about my idea specifically."
"supported, at least as far as to have ccp readdress the situation. the current solution is less than optimal for numerous reasons; not the least of which is the lack of a focus for carriers.dreads kill structures and non-nano'd capitals.  nanotitans are abominations, but anyhoo... rorquals are mobile mining and hauling beasts.carriers  and by extension, motherships  and titans don't have very well-defined roles. titans at least have a dedicated logistics/tactical angle to them with their jumpbridge ability. motherships can jump into an area and clonejump in some support, though this facility is of limited use aside from raiding.carriers are basically large dominixes, that have a large cargohold. is it any surprise then, that they are becoming \"the new battleship\"?give carriers a role and a defined function."
"well despite the fact that you already raised this exact issue before and been voted down i still support it in theory although without specific proposals it is impossible to give any support to the thread. unless of course you are planning on not presenting the issues without any proposals to ccp in which case i can't support it either as it would be a waste of their time."
"didn't read the rest of the posts?"
"i think this proposal just needs a clearer mission statement as the initial writeup in the op is vague, and then it quickly gets into very detailed specifics and you have to really dig to figure out what exactly the proposal is all about. at present simply supporting 'having a discussion' could go in so many ways that it is very hard to lend support to it, despite much more concrete sample recommendations appearing later on in the proposal.a firm statement at the start would really help this out. something like \"the csm should recommend that ccp revisit the idea of changing the carrier's role, and that that revisiting should involve increasing the level of specialization in any given carrier fit to prevent it from being a jack of all trades on the battlefield.\" and then later get into the specific types of fits you'd like to see possible, and what their weaknesses and strengths would be.basically something broad enough that people don't reject the concept because of some silly detail, but not so vague that people can't tell what they're signing on to when they support it."
"then i'll be sure to mention this in the meeting this sunday.can i have your thumbs up now?"
"itt goonswarm tries to get capitals nerfed so they have a chance."
"why is there no thumbs down option, because that's what i would pick"
"ugh. ccp has enough problems coming up with sweeping changes on their own. it rarely works out. as much as it might bore the lead developer, small incremental changes are the only way to do things in a game like eve, because the only place you can really learn about game balance is on the live server. the skewed risk/reward on sisi makes it useless as an indicator of how ships will actually be used on tq, and ccp has shown a complete inability to predict totally obvious yet potentially abusive game mechanics  cruise missles on kestrals, titan fleets, etc . the biggest problem is that this post completely sweeps under the rug what your own alliance did over the past two weeks, where non-capital fleets were used convincingly. breaking spider tanks isn't rocket-science, everyone knows how to do it  although it would be nice if damps on bonused ships at least could manage this again . the reality isn't that capital ships are necessarily overpowered, but that once you reach a carrier fleet of a certian size it's impossible to bring to bear a large enough subcap fleet against them. this is a lag issue as much as a cap-ships online issue. that said, you make a strong point about carriers being able to do too much at once while in combat. remote-rep + fighter dps + smartbomb/neut/etc means they don't have a lot of weaknesses other than ecm, and a large enough carrier blob will be able to survive those 15%-20% jam chances enough to maintain it's spider-tank. nerfing captial remote-reps seems like a pretty simple and straightforward solution  eg: cutting their rep amount and cap use in half  that isn't likely to have any major side-effects  you'd need to half the volume of the reps as a result, and their mineral cost, and make every single cap remote-rep into two when the change is implemented, but that's all stuff that's been done before ."
"caps turned this game from intresting and fun into boring pos wars and lagfests."
"this is a good enough post, so thank you. i agree that the biggest problem with carriers is the difficulty with breaking spider tanks and how their strength increases in a supralinear fashion as carrier numbers increase. ernest's idea for carriers might be the most like what you're looking for."
"no, i think you'll find that poss did that."
"we have an absolute ****load of carriers these days."
"i'd support that statement more or less unedited.calling them 'jack of all trades' sums up the issue nicely: the issues with carriers is not that they are, strictly speaking, 'overpowered'  they die fairly frequently in combat, even to subcapitals  but that they have the ability to carry out almost any role one can think of reasonably well with a single generic omni-fitting. it would be more in keeping with eve if carrier pilots were forced to commit to a particular role like the pilots of every other shiptype are, if not at the point of purchase then at least at the fitting screen."
"i will never support a change that takes fighters out of my own control. they're my fighters, not my gangs. i trained for them, i bought them, i want to control them. and i think it -highly- unfair that in order to use my ship, i'm required to have other people around to use it for me. that's ridiculous. i should always have the option to use my ship as i see fit, and not require other people to use it. the -risk- should be higher without support players around me, but that would be my choice to use my ship in a risky manner.imagine me telling you that in order to use a battleship, you had to be in the gang of a person with wing command 3 in order to use your guns? that you can only use 3 of your 6 guns if you aren't in a gang w/ a wing commander 3 leader? yeah, it makes about as much sense as me not being able to order my own fighters around. the issue is spider repping. the issue is not fighter control. nerf the spider repping, the issue with capitals being all powerful will begin to fade. it's a very simple fix. you can only use capital remote reppers if in triage mode. this makes carriers a sitting duck.i support making dcus more viable. a dmg increase sounds nice.capitals should use capital-modules-only in high slots. give us a capital smartbomb/neut, make sure the fitting requirements are increased, restrict non capital mods in highs, and you'll see less problems. mothership tanks need to be improved. they're too easy to take down solo. the right gang can do it quickly and without a ton of players involved. i expect a ship that i paid 25 billion  incl fittings  and trained 2 freaking years for will last longer than 3 minutes on the battlefield."
"that's just it though--this isn't a battleship, and one of the points of this thread is to keep them from being less-mobile harder-hitting versions of battleships. maybe nerfing the spidertank will be sufficient; maybe more of a stick is needed to wedge carriers into a specific role.i'm in the same boat--i've actually trained several accounts to use carriers, and it is entirely possible that when the carrier is \"repurposed\" or \"better-defined\" i'll be screwed out of the utility i had in mind. however, a generic do-everything ship is not good for eve.one thing i'm hoping for is a reduction in the capital remote rep modules in terms of fitting and ability....and a reduction to logistics 4 for the triage module. i think the original vision of the carrier was for a subcapital support vessel/force multiplier, and if that happens to be the defining vision then i hope it gets to be a bit easier to train into that role. having to train dozens of skills to 5 as prerequisites to even sit into the carrier and fit the mods  let alone use them well  is very harsh; logistics 5 is basically forcing people to train battleship 5 all over again."
"my example was just used for the principal of the matter. i 100% agree that carriers shouldn't be the \"all around gods\" of the battlefield. but carriers are just that - carriers of fighters. the fighter should define the carrier, not the mods the carrier pilot decides to equip. if carriers want to do better at repping members of their gang, withdraw their fighters and put out repping drones. so again, reduce the effectiveness of the remote reppers, remove the ability to equip non-capital modules in high slots  add more of a variety of capital modules with appropriate fitting costs though , and you will see a big difference in the ability of capitals to demolish everything on the battlefield and never die. yeah, making logistics 4 the pre-req for triage won't hurt either. there is no need to require delegation of fighters or put other cavioughts  sp  in order for a pilot to even use his ship though in order to obtain a balance of capitals in the game."
"i think that this is worth pushing forward."
"even assuming you limit yourself to these proposals, that's just it. they are proposals in the plural. you're still attempting to forward a large number of proposals in one csm vote. you need to break it down into individual proposals.congratulations. a really big post. this is your proposal to the csm for escalation? all these changes and ideas from yourself and others whom you give url's for? this is nothing more than a goonswarm wish list designed to give them a bigger, easier win button.as you claim to be a recent graduate in business, i would have expected a much better presentation than this confusing, bulk array of ideas, quotes, opinion from a player you don't even name  darius? , personal opinion expressed as the \"silent majority\" and nerf ideas for carriers. one of these ideas, \"at base, carriers can deploy 5 fighters/drones of their own  125mbit/sec bandwidth , but can still delegate up to 10  including original 5  to gang members with carrier v. a mothership can use 10 fighters on its own  250mbit/sec bandwidth  at base but has 20 overall to use at once\", is the same one ccp zulupark was unmercifully flamed for when he made it. forcing carrier pilots to have what amounts to a co-pilot s  in order to deploy their own fighters.what this all boils down to is:- reduce effectiveness of carriers.- decrease skill training necessary to pilot carriers.- force carriers into a support role as opposed to a direct combat role.- increase the effectiveness of smaller ships against carriers.- decrease effectiveness of carriers against smaller ships.- increase the dependence of carriers upon smaller ships. even to the point of making the carrier pilot dependent upon smaller ships to deploy the carriers own drones.- minimization of the effectiveness of skills older players have and maximization of the effectiveness of skills newer players have.and what that boils down to is; candyland for a large alliance composed of relatively new players who are too impatient to dedicate the resources to train for and purchase capitals and who prefer to blob with less expensive and easier to fly ships. instant gratification has always been the hallmark of goonswarm.older players with more skills and resources that have been developed over years are what is under attack here. without carriers and other capital ships these players will be easily overwhelmed by an alliance such as goonswarm represents.windjammerp.s. playing the race card is repulsive enough without being vulgar about it. besides, photographic evidence seems to indicate you're a curly haired white kid. needless to say i and others will not be puckering up regardless of the skin color."
"the idea of carriers having to specialise is an interesting one, and one i think would benifit the game as a whole.maybe having to sacrifice the cha and/or the sma to achieve maximum dps or repping potential would be usefull as well, and incentivising filling highslots with +dps or repping modules  ie, make 4-5 dcus or remote reps usable and useful  would make it harder to be a jack of all trades."
"how have i not signed this?"
"hi i came accross this issue recently when i had been contracted to do a copy job on small nosferatu 1 bpo specifically the order was for 20 max run bpc's imagine my suprise when i found out that this would take a grand total of 62.5 days to do he job  which given other small module high slot item times seems unreal to be honest .so to give a run down of the research copy times per single copy on the vampire family  assuming science five skill  please see below.small nosferatu 1 - 15 minsmedium nosferatu 1 - 30 minsheavy nosferatu 1 - 60 minsto give a comparison lets compare this with the nosferatu's cousin the energy neutralizer familysmall energy neutralizer 1 - 1 minsmedium energy neutralizer 1 - 1 minsheavy energy neutralizer 1 - 1 minsi have bugreported this issue as i had believed it was a bug and i know that previously the copy times on the nosferatus were a lot lower than what they are now and the responce i have received was as follows.so what i am asking is that the csm take up this issue and ask ccp to bring the energy vampire bpo's copy times into line with that of the energy neutralizer bpo's after all when you consider that they are both part of the same energy subsystems family it seems rather strange that they have such vastly different copy times."
"interestingly enough the small nos bpo used to have the following copy stats, but i am unsure when/why this was altered.hopefully csm will take up this issue and get it resolved and bring the research times back to how they used to be and inline with the other mods in the energy subsystems family."
"not an issue that effects me but with the current wishes of ccp being towards balance i think it is important to balance everything."
"obviously agree with my own topic"
"i agree for balance sake this should be addressed."
"the response to the bug report seemed to say that small nos and small neut have the same copy time, but the data you provided indicates that they do not. is the gm who responded to you in error, is your data in error, or am i just reading this wrong?"
"its not a gm response, discussing gm responses is not eve allowed. the response was from a bughunter and they usually consult with the people in the know about that sort of a thing.if you ask me this does not really warant a csm issue, its very small and not really breaks anything or causes massive issues for anyone."
"in essence i would agree but to me it looks like ccp are saying \"as intended\" when what has probably happened is they have fecked up the db entries for the nosferatus given the apparent disparity between them and neutralizors. i would not actually have taken this path were it not for the fact that i have petitioned and bug reported  and re-submitted bug report as i was not happy with initial one line responce  and basically been left no option forward on it than what the bughunter themselves suggested i.e. use the csm function."
"lol good point +1 for reading i am actually going to reopen the bug report because i didn't read properly what the bh said at first re small energy neut 1... will respond back here once i hear more edit: blimey bug hunters reply quicklyso yeah guess the previous bh'er mistyped"
"this. i don't want to disable effects outright and not see important stuff that could actually kill me, like dictor bubbles and doomsdays. but right now one of the simplest visual issues with eve is looking at a bs fleet that appears to be in a pond kids are throwing stones into."
"pls"
"dualboxing one character who flies a falcon and a buzzard and another who flies a thanatos is a total nightmare because of this restriction. while it should be just a two click process to switch from one hull to another, instead it takes five minutes of shuffling scan probes and lo around just so i can keep my cargohold full of the things i need to go about my business.utterly unacceptable."
"agreed."
"carrier pilot posting to say that this is needs to be looked into."
"please yes"
"yeah you guys basically need to either start learning how un-fun your game is to play or start listening to the players who actually play your game. fix this and maybe increase playability for once instead of adding  broken  new features that nobody asked for or wanted."
"as you have some need to not allow the cha of a carrier to allow it to be used for logistics as some form of \"meet in the middle\" not allowing industrials in the cha of carriers could be an option."
"please for the love of eve devs take notice and act on it!"
"agreed."
"seriously, this change needs to happen"
"while i don't fly capitals / carriers, this sounds like a good argument..supported"
"supported"
"yace"
"very much agree./signed"
":snypa:"
"great idea"
"nice"
"i approve."
"do it fffffff"
"ex to the zee makes an excellent point. signed."
"was a good change.no support."
"so say we all."
"voting yes on dis"
"i think there needs to be more than just ammo allowed but not everything. in specific i am talking about cyno fuel etc."
"nice troll"
"do it, ****!!!"
"to: ccpif it ain't broke, don't fix it.it wasn't broke, you fixed it.unfix it.lovingly yours,vakor"
"yase"
"this was always a horribly conceived nerf."
"this"
"how can i effectively run a group of frigates from a carrier fully fitted and ready to go and extra parts to spare with this nerf?i thought the idea of carriers and motherships were to be mobile stations, thus why they have clone vat bays etc, what's the point of those if people can't effectively use the ship for the very purpose they're designed for.things need to be changed back to how they were, or have less restrictions."
"please do this. there are far better options available for large-scale hauling and it makes too many little things annoying."
"poorly implemented then, unnecessary now. probably the most ham-fisted change i've seen ccp make."
"i agree if only to allow things like base minerals and trade goods to be held in ship cargo while docked."
"how about allowing everything but haulers to have stuff in their cargo hold? or as someone else stated only allow 1km3 in a cargo hold."
"/signedrostran targo, future carrier pilot"
"make life easier, sure why not."
"please do this - the restriction no longer serves a purpose"
"signed"
"makes sense to me; i'll bring this to the next csm meeting for consideration.iz"
"having just got into carrier use, i can vouch for the frustration of trying to swap ships, only to realise you have one non-0ammo item in your cargohold, or trying to scoop some ships left in a pos etc etc."
"/signed"
"still is a big deal, especially for me. i abhor having my chatbox moving around when i open the market."
"i will sign any ui fixing post."
"ui needs a good long hard look at but some specifics needs to be presented."
"my main issue is the silly bugs that seemed to crop up recently.tho a complete revamp would not be unwelcome."
"/signed"
"you have to actually click support to sign this.we need a multithreaded ui so we don't hang when opening a window and eventually multiprocessor support."
"fix ui!"
"i agree that titans need to be changed, but i also think that doomsdays can be salvaged. even if doomsday damage remains the same, limiting their range  30km instead of 250 maybe? , and adding a drawback that would make them be more of a \"last ditch resort\"  can't cloak, can't warp, -50% rep amount, and can't jump for a period of time or something  wouldn't be bad.i would actually like to see that titans would be used as more of a \"front line station\" as well, but have their turrets be useful as well, instead of their highslots being only neuts, smartbombs, and cloaks besides jump bridges and doomsdays, with some using clone vat bays."
"not signed. if you remove the doomsday outright, no one will ever deploy a titan in a vulnerable position - and no one will have the chance to kill them. instead give them offensive abilities that work alongside a support fleet rather than making it a fleet in itself."
"this will create a new and greater dynamic in deep space logistics"
"i like it. it's simple, easy to implement, etc."
"agreed. people shouldn't need to ask which ts channel we're on every 2mins."
"now we can tell people to read the motd every 2min"
"/+1"
"i support this."
"agreed.bloody pain."
"i would like to encourage the csm to think about this:multiple windows for the market tab. like you could actually view market details and my orders at the same time, or compare prices of the same item with different meta lvl  or even different types, like ion and neutron blasters . would make it much more comfortable imho."
"yes my veto is in."
"pro tip... use your wallet window to look at your orders and the market window to look at market details at the same time.now on to your idea, i would love to be able to have a few different details open at the same time. sadly even if we got support for this idea, and csm passed it through, i bet the database devs would cry that it would make to many calls on the database, slowing down nodes, maybe crashing them, etc etc etc.still a thumbs up from me."
"/+1"
"tim, i don't think veto means what you think it means.anyway, this is an excellent idea and would be a huge time-saver. definitely supported."
"hehe yeah i noticed that too, but i figured id give him a break since he got all the right letters for the word \"vote\""
"sounds reasonable - would save me a whole lot of switching back and forth to compare various things."
" 1  remove eccm modules and make eccm a sensor booster script. this makes good sense, and addresses the reasonable complaint that eccm is the only ew counter that doesn't do anything else. 2  change the signal distort amp to affect all forms of ew; damps, tds, tps. if +16-20% strength per mod is too much  and it might be considering the non-ecm ships have more low slots, and ccp seem to want lower ew strength for non-ecm ew , then 10-12% or 12-15% would still be pretty useful imo. caldari ships should still have the most powerful overall ew, but other races should be allowed the option to use fitting options to increase their power. losing low slots is a pretty decent tradeoff for ships which are actually supposed to fight. 3  add an ew falloff range rig. sensor damps and tds rely heavily on their falloff range.in short, i'm not in favour of an ecm nerf, but i do believe that other forms of ew need a little help to be more useful."
" 1  is interesting, and as long as they figured out how to compensate all involved i could go for it.  2  makes good sense, and  3  does as well."
"thank you. there's probably more that could be done, but i'm trying to keep my proposals deliberately simple and modest.if a t2 sensor booster can add +60% sensor strength, that will give a very significant boost to the chance of resisting a jam to larger ships. 2x t2 would, with stack penalties give about +210%. this isn't exactly an ecm nerf, but i think it would allow a much larger number of people the chance to resist ecm attacks without fitting an otherwise inutile mod.with respect to boosting the other ew types, the sda change is the simplest way to implement it, and it's automatically balanced as well. the specialised ew ships will be able choose to reach their pre-nerf abilities - at the cost of gimping their non-ew ability. the choice will be there. i prefer to add options rather than always nerfing.the ew falloff rig is simply filling an obvious gap in the rig lineup. i know damps used to be overpowered, but not including this rig is simply blatant discrimination against gallante ew, which everyone now agrees is much less useful that it ought to be.the changes i propose would overall result in a little less overall power for ecm and a decent increment for non-ecm. caldari should be about more than ew, and the other races should be able to at least play the ew game."
"what we need is a eccm skill. there are skills, modules, rigs, faction, officer stuff that improve ecm jamming however there are very few things to improve eccm. we need to boost eccm. we don't need a nerf on ecm."
"i thought about that - tds and damps are both countered by skills, but i couldn't come up with a solution i liked. what's your suggestion?"
"absolutely"
"seems reasonable.full support and a highfive."
"noone uses maller, it's a crap ship most people does'nt even know about. my maller thread on the ships and modules section just instantly decayed with only 1 other person replying it. this clearly shows that noone flies the maller, noone knows how to fit a maller to make it competetive and that noone gives a **** about it.i propose that we increase mallers armor hp by 200% mass by at least 2000%, remove it's current boniis and give it a large mwd bonus instead.with the proposed changes the maller will be usefull as a bumper to knock ships larger than itself around. the huge inertia will allow it to keep its speed even if the mwd dies from scrambler  \"the nanofix\" patch  and also allow it to even give carriers a push.this will also solve the crappy whack-a-mole problem with stationhugging battleships and captials, the maller will simply push them away./e: forgot about that its turret slots should be reduced to 2, so that people does'nt abuse the extra armor and makes uberbuffermallers instead."
"naturally, i supports my own topic."
"okay, the maller sucks, i agree, but your idea is seriously appallingly bad. like, nightmarish.i'll give you a thumbs up, but jesus, i'm glad you're not the one calling the shots at ccp."
"after playing on sisi, and experiencing the new bs's that maneuver and fly like supercaps, seeing inty's nerfed in speed 40%, and looking at skills you trained and stuff you bought wasted and reduced to nothing, do you vote for no confidence in the management of the dev team, which admitted in the dev blog that they came up with the concept of this massive kick to the balls nerf in a mere 5 hours, whilst players have proposed far superior solutions over the last year?imho, whomever came up with this stupid plan should not be allowed to plan anything more complex than possibly lunch  that we don't have to eat  ever again! this proposal makes as much sense as swatting a fly with a nuclear bomb. and will produce the same collateral damage. 117km/s with nav 5 on a freaking raven... stupid."
"i of course support my own proposal."
"if they only came up with this nerf in 5 hours then that in itself is questionable.just based on the number of pages in the yes to the nerf/no to the nerf motions in this forum i would say that this is a very big deal.i don't support the nerf because the nerf represents the whining and crying of those that never actually tried to combat nanogangs.it's actually quite easy."
"edit: thought twice, i'll avoid bashing the op."
"i hope they made the nerf in 5 hours - honestly it is a good tactic and hear me out here:first off we all know that the speed nerf is subject to change. the fact that this warning is in big yellow letters tells u that not everything will be included. the best way to test a speed nerf is to apply everything at once, then look at the pros and cons of each individual change.i doubt half of the nerf will make it through, but i applaud the devs if they all got drunk and in 5 hours thought of all the things that could balance speed. we'll see in a week or two a completely revamped nerf that will be tested again before the final changes."
"honestly after hearing player feedback in general i'm quite convinced that eve is better off if they dont listen to player feedback in general"
"four devs who have been thinking about speed for a year sitting down and spending five hours hashing out ideas face-to-face is a whole hell of a lot more than five hours of forum *****ing. frankly, that sounds like a whole lot of time to me - i'd be unimpressed by 20 people for 5 hours, but 4 guys can actually get stuff done. i don't really like a lot of the changes, but i'm not going to vote no confidence because of that alone."
"personally, you would have gotten a check from me is you had called for a \"vote of no confidence in the balance team\".after all, i wouldn't be paying to play if i thought all of the devs were doing a terrible job. some of them are really cool guys. *cough* greyscale. *cough*the one thing i will second however, is that it does seem at times that all some members of the \"balance\" team  *cough* zulupark *cough* nozh *cough*  do 24/7 is sit around, drink beer, smoke ganja, and dream up as many ways as possible to screw over eve and its playerbase.my two isk.cheers.p.s. the final insult: 117 m/s raven. 125 m/s  max skill  fenrir. yep. that's right. the freighter is faster than the battleship. something a little wrong with this picture you think \"balance team\"? maybe? huh? just a little??"
"supportin' da op. my positions are quite clear in the threads i've started and discussed in. its a terrible idea."
"the single biggest problem with nano ships wasnt their combat abilities, it was how fast they could move across the map and evade things they shouldnt be able to."
"like they were too fast?"
"in a manner of speaking. ccp has been trying to help keep alliances into a more local focus rather than spanning multiple regions. this is why they dropped sov 5 from my proposal when they used it. it is also why they made more entrances into 0.0.nerfing nanos to ccp is primarily about traffic control and population management. what they are doing is trying not to overdo it.but most players are too selfish to notice anything other than their ships not doing 10km/s+ anymore."
"[nozh mode] thank you for pointing this out sylthi, we of the dev balance team realize we have made a mistake here, and are fully willing to admit that.freighter sublight and warp speeds will be halved with the next patch.[/nozh mode]"
"adapt or die you bunch of girlie girls."
"the balance team has no idea what they are doing, what they are screwing with, and are the epitome of how not to interact with people regarding game play changes...pretty much a lot of idiots"
"lol wut the ****?i vote you kill yourself"
"lol, what?yes, you're going to vote zomg no confidense in the entire development team. oh, man, burn!so what does that actually mean? nothing. squat. it means angry people on the forum have made posts that range from valid to completely asinine regarding a design change.if you want to vote no confidence in the development team, do it with your wallet. anything else, especially something as dumb as this, would be pointless."
"look, please quit it with silly \"no confidence\" in x,y,z threads. they have no meaning. its just spam. get on the test server. test the changes. help the devs and testers see the impact of these changes on the game and make your point in a useful way.can we have this thread locked please?"
"buy a stock majority or stfu!"
"vote with you feet and wallet, not with some stupid thread no one gives a **** about if you feel that strongly.supporting anyway, just in case."
"cross-post from:"
"i think you are right, most people suggesting changes only look at the specific ship and its counterparts and expect the ship to have the same qualities. instead all ships are created differently and have their own little quirks that make them interesting to play with.looking at the bigger picture is much more interesting, and probably a lot more people care and have ideas about that. i think what you csm folks should try and get some discussions going on the different aspects of things that you feel could do with improvement. after all you are elected to lead the discussion and interpret the wishes of the community."
"lavista, is the goal to come up with a recommendation on how to handle ship balance issues? what response are you looking for from the other csm members?does the csm need some formal action from ccp to redirect ship balance concerns through other channels? or can that goal be accomplished more informally and immediately?assuming ship balance issues were somehow collected into one master list and ratified by the csm or the playerbase, would that be an appropriate format/item to present to ccp?would the csm be endorsing specific actions such as powergrid increases and module changes?if the csm simply refused to take up ship balance issues, the attentions of the community may just be redirected to the bigger picture things. in a way it is up to the csm to provide leadership and filtering on this and not just wait for the playerbase to tell them what to do. i think it's far too slippery a slope to continue entertaining these highly specific issues that ccp is unlikely to respond positively to."
"yes. i think for continuity reasons, it's important we figure out a good way for handling balancing issues. unlike \"bigger\" issues, balancing issues tends to be fairly simple.thus, a streamlining for the process, as described, would be a possible solution. but for now, lets have a good discussion. changing the way a body like the csm, shouldn't be taken lightly. since we need to represent the community, they need to understand how the council works too. and they have a say, too.i'm sure if we talk to ccp with a proposal for how we should submit these, it will be fine.else, we can restructure our internal processes, but that is not too good due to continuity. yes, that would be pretty good, in my eyes. i suggested a similar way in the op.it's hard to say. the csm would of course have to agree, that these suggestions are to be presented to ccp. but i'm not sure about how a vote would work on that, etc.we would have to discuss this for implementation at a later time.yes, you are completely right. i would hate to see that the community think we are filtering balancing issues, just because we can. it seems elitist. the problem is, that there is no channel for raising balancing issues, from the community to ccp. i would like if there was a way, but i don't think csm is the best place. but sadly, it's the only place. that would force us to do it."
"ship balancing issues, as lavista rightly points out, is just one of the smaller issues that takes up a lot of time for the csm.ship balancing, imo, can never be 100% perfect for all of the eve players, due to the fact that a player can have characters in any of 4 races, with secondary racial characteristics. this means that ccp gives each race exactly the same set of ships ignoring racial differences, which would result in some races getting better bonuses in some areas and others in different areas, or it tries  as it has  to take account of the strengths of a race and cater ships towards those.this means that straight off, before skills are taken into affect, there is a spectrum of different ships that will each suit different types of players. within each class of ship for each race, there is further possible variation depending on the skills of the character and module-fitting/use ability, rigs etc etc.essentially, there are many possible types of final ship types, depending on a character type and skills etc. it then follows that there will be major differences between the ship of a certain race class and that of a different race  of the same class .this is all kept continuous in-game via the storyline, with different corps producing the types of ships for each race, each ship with its strengths and weaknesses.the problem comes when a player designs a ship they think will do well against other ships, only to find that another ship has an advantage in an area they have overlooked.essentially, the ship-balancing calls place the csm  and ccp  in a no-win situation. players want an uber-ship that can hold its own and defeat other ships. we don't like it when we overlook something and are made to pay the price on the battlefield...anyone watching tourney battles will quickly come to the conclusion that certain ship types are useful in certain situations; there is no one answer.it's essentially like cars in real life: each is made to do or fulfil different functions, they all look different and have different attributes. they even are made by different designers and manufacturers...the 'betterness' of one type over another depends upon how they are employed and who is using them, and the situation they are used within.i personally don't think the csm should be used as a portal for ships to be tweaked to make them better or like another ship. there is a place for it; it's called the features and ideas discussion forum.edit: i don't think balancing is needed, unless there is some major area that is not working as intended  eg., speed . variety, as they say, is the spice of life.arithron"
"i've been on record from the very beginning  see link below sig pic  that i am not inclined to support ship nerf/love  always love, really - few people ask for ships to be nerfed  unless there is an extremely good case for it. this is the 'game' we have and generally we choose to fly the ships we fly; if we don't like one particular ship we always have the options  subject to skilling for it  to fly a different make  race  and model.sfaiac the csm should be more concerned with considering how the universe works than how a specific module or ship is engineered ...iz"
"i like what ccp did with the sansha faction ships, personally, and would like to see the same done to angel ships and blood ships in some regard as well."
"nah"
"tarminic's idea looks exactly like mine... only he added limitations to what systems and modules you can target based on what defenses are still in place.as for \"how\" to make it work...try using a survey scanner sometime. it opens a new menu window, just like your overview... with little dropdowns for the various ore types. then you leaf through the options, based on range most often, and start mining.this systems scanner could do the same thing. you lock onto a ship, and activate the scanner. it opens an extra menu, which wouldn't be too big and obscuring since all it'd show is weapons, shields, armor, engines, warp, cap, etc. basically all the vital parts of the ship. i don't see this system allowing you to very precisely target their \"large armor repairer ii\"... but it could cause damage to \"armor repairs\" which would carry over. and if you happen to be caldari, then targeting their \"armor repairs\" wouldn't do much good, now would it?little menu box, with a couple of options. score enough hits, and they can't fire back... or they can't mend damage... or they can't run away..."
"now it's good =dtargeting of subsystems could be implemented in the targeting menu as a drop-down option that falls off the side of the right-click menu. also as a drop-down from the target button in the selected item window.sub-systems should have a specified  very low  percentage of the signature radius of the targeted ship. this makes it automatically very hard to hit with anything more than very below-tier weaponry.sub-systems should be reparable by remote-reppers, allowing triage to put a wounded cap back into action etc. sig radius just makes them harder to lock here, giving logistics and triage more lease in life.sub-systems should have a small slice  not adding up to 100%  of shield/armor/structure of the targeted ship, simulating the overwhelming of all local defenses in a very specific location all the way through the structure.sub-system damage should be counted against the total hp of the ship using the regular damage calculations on a simulated slice of the ship's hp. ie if it takes 16000 shield, 12000 armor, and 14000 structure to blow up the sub-system, that amount of damage should be applied to the ship's shield, armor, and structure.aoe weapons do not affect sub-systems at all. 6000m radius is not pin-point enough =psubsystems should automatically repair their structure over time, but require remote or local repping to recover their armor/shield.sub-systems should receive repair from ship's own tanking mods, but with a weighted percent of total damage repair applied to the sub-systemi don't know how all this became so clear to me so fast, but i can already hear the 11,000 carrier pilots cringing and the bomber pilots going nuts synopsis of the implementation:small ship weapons will hit your sub-sytems on capital  bs as well?  ships. if they can blow up the protection and do structure damage to the system before you can get a rep-cycle in, you will start eating sub-system structural damage. these systems will regen over time, becoming active again upon reaching full structure. they will become deactivated again once damaged to 0 structure again. a carrier or any logistics can give your sub-systems extra protection. get rid of small ships to prevent losing access to systems.available systems should be:propulsion  jump drive, speed and agility cut way back high slotsengineering  large capacitor drop/no recharge sensors  easier to jam, slower locks, lose range yes, jump drive. you have smartbombs, fighters, drones, ddd's, and should have support. a wing of bombers working effectively can pin a cap/super-cap. big trade-off of pilots required, pilots who could be flying tackling ships, which are more general purpose and probably regarded as superior in pvp anyway. fair trade in tactics. you can still warp, but align very slowly.i think hitting tanking mods makes absolutely no sense because it'd be more like hitting the module that is the locus of all defenses of the ship. there would be so much shield/armor rep coming from that location that the small weapons that could hit it would be working against the total hp of the ship, not just a slice.basically your worst nightmare as a cap pilot becomes getting alpha-strikes from bombers that hit in between rep-cycles. anything else probably won't have the alpha/tracking/explosion radius to hit the weak point hard enough fast enough. i stress that the sig radius should be very small and the hp should be to where a bomber wing can pin a cap fleet. bombers are a specialized ship with not so much usage, so don't complain that it's too much for a small ship, because it's a specialized ship that will still require good coordination.pos warfare trick of the month is to blow up the engineering on a dread and take it down before it's out of siege."
"i would support this for targeting capital ship systems thus making smaller vessels a danger to them  like that a wing that takes out the executor bridge in return of the jedi on smaller vessels i don't think it would be as good."
"anyone here played tie fighter? loved that game."
"i still think the tactical sensor module would be easier to implement.1  to prevent sub-system damage from a 150km sniper, the sensor has a much closer range. you have to be pretty up close and personal in order to hit specific locations rather than just the ship in general.2  the sensor could open a separate menu to display the weak points, and the damage meters for each. personally, i get irritated with all the right+click flyout menus. if you wiggle your mouse just slightly, then they disappear or choose something completely different. whereas a separate menu would be easier to navigate in the heat of combat.3  i don't think that sub-systems should each have shields/armor/hull. that's what the ship has in place. so either taking the suggestion earlier, and saying you can't lock certain systems until the ship's defenses are already down... or just making sub-system damage resemble heat. each area will have a certain amount of damage it can take before it goes down.4  i don't think they should repair on their own, nor should remote reppers work. but i do think we already have the tool for making repairs on our own... nanite paste."
"ah, i was thinking about it recently as well, when i found the \"drawing board\" section of patch notesi was thinking on how to implement this, and i think i came up with a good idea, first you would need skills to use it something like:targeting level ivsurgical strike level ivsub-system targeting level inow, what you could do, would be like this, instead of aiming specifically for specific modules, ie a vagabonds mwd for example, you could aim for high slots; mid slots; and low slots, and it would be like overloading modules  i cant overload modules yet, so correct me if im wrong  but you konw when you overload modules, they get damaged, and un useable for a certain amount of time? well, what if you could do something similar in this case?like this screen shot see that half circle under structure? and the 2 lines that seperate it into 3 sections? you could be able to target high slots; mid slots; and low slots, and if the first bar was gone, that rack could be deactivated for i would say 3 minutes  no module damage , you shoot him some more, and if the second section was shot down to 0, now the modules are damaged, and then deactivated for 5 more minutes  the times could stack on top of each other, ie, you shoot him straight to 2/3 down, so his modules would be deactivated for 8 minutes  when and if you shoot it down all the way, the modules are extremely damaged, like 39/40 down, and the modules are deactivated for 10 minutes, regardless if you repair them, or dock at a stationbut these modules wouldnt be exactly easy to hit either, it would have to be along the lines of trying to hit a small drone going like 500meters per second or something, and you cant even web them  the modules  so even if you webbed the ship down to 5 m/sec the modules would still have to be hard to hit, of course it would also have to be easier for smaller ships to hit them since they are smaller and use smaller guns themselvesthis would help alot imho, so now pirates could shoot  or try  to shoot modules instead of damaging a shipfor other things  normal ship propulsion  idk, i dont think it should be a death sentence because if you think about it, soemone shoots your propulsion out, you are a sitting duck, and dont know what if the pirates are going to just keep you all there, and maybe pop you one by one  lmao that would funny though, line them up, you konw you are next, the other ship is itno armor, structure, boom, then you hear the locking sound on your ship, lmao  anyway, if it was to implemented, i think i have a good idea on how that would work as well, maybe you could shoot propulsion out, and it just damages it quite a bit, like they shoot out your sub-light, it would also have its own little bar of health, but instead of it being deactivated, its performance should be cut down, ie, first section is shot out, ship can only go 66% its normal speed, second section shot out, ship can only go 33% its normal speed, 3/3 shot out, ship can now only go 1% its normal speed, and this would work out still on modules that are based off that ships attribute, you have a mwd that allows your ship to go 15km/sec for example, they shoot out your propulsion, and your ship can only go 1% of 15km/sec, now your ship can still go 450m/sec even with its propulsion shot out due to its mwdsame thing should go for warp engines, your warp speed could be messed up, yoru ship warps at 3au/ second, now it can only warp like 0.5au a second for example, or maybe it could suck way more capacitor to warp out, or maybe a combination of bothbottom line though, no amount of module popping should prevent you from escaping completely, no matter if your propulsion, mwd, and warp engines are shot out, you could still warp away, its just more difficultsame thing with weapons and protection, you should still be able to use them, it should"
"sorry about double post, but maybe also, if you dont target the equipment on the ship, just targeting the ship itself, there could be a random chance  something like a \"strikes perfectly wrecking for. . .   shot that it does damage a module along with it, and if it does, it shoots it straight down to its first level of damage, and that module is un useable, however, if you are aiming for a certain rack  high slot, mid slot, or low slots  when you miss it doesnt damage the ship eitherjust an afterthought"
"i agree with the idea presented by soldier of fortune here but would make it substantially harder to train for than he presented. something along the lines of:targeting vsurgical strike iv or vtrajectory analysis iv or v"
"ah, thank you, i knew there were other targeting skills, just wasnt sure which onesand thank you for agreeing with me, but, im not sure about lvl 5 skills, those take a while to train for, i would say those skills at lvl 4 would be sufficientagain, thanks for agreeing with meif this was implemented, it would add another complete tactical tool to the game, and would give smaller ships a better role in this world, when each side starts taking up mass battleship fleets  like the caldari a few days ago, they built a fleet up of about 20 battleships "
"sorry, but i can't say i like this idea"
"i could see ~some~ extra training to accomplish this. but i don't think it requires absolute mastery of targeting skills to achieve. unless all level v's means you can shoot the capacitor battery cables off a shuttle in mid-warp from 200km away.i think part of the idea is to achieve some of the cinematic action we see in sci fi shows. targeting certain systems to incapacitate the ship without destroying it completely.i just don't think the tactical officers on star trek or bsg have all trained so thoroughly into targeting, just to make a few extra shots. i think they have extra sensitive sensor arrays that allow for it... kinda like the tactical sensor i suggested already!"
"as much as it seems like a good idea  i loved homeworld 2, and using bombers to that effect was fun , there are a couple flaws. the main one- lag generated by only a couple hundred ships shooting one pos lags a system as is with nothing else to speak of going on in system is a problem as it is, having the servers have to calculate even more divvied damage would kill performance and nodes.it would be awesome if it could work in this game, but i fear that current mechanics and software wouldn't be able to support it."
"i think it would be an interesting change to the game mechanics if super-capitals  and possibly capitals  couldn't be tackled in the same way as current ships. instead, warp disruptors and webs would increase the time they needed to align for warp, or to spool up jump drives. during this time, attackers could target specific sub-systems such as propulsion, navigation  targeting , weapons, and engineering  self-repair .the idea of a freespace/homeworld-style system for capital ships appeals to me, because it would be interesting to see capital ships as vessels that are tough to destroy outright, but possible to incapacitate. there is even room for currently under-used ship classes such as assault frigates and destroyers to be efficient at damaging capital sub-systems."
"while we're all referencing other games... so there was this game called empire at war and the absolute greatest damned tricks to pull were either sending in a load of bombers after station shield generators or using hero unit red wing with the \"lucky shot\" capability that instantly took out a sub-system.on to more serious things...to address the issue of what to do with the 100k of damage that hit's skizzlefist's titan while people are aiming for the subsystem, do the damage calcs twice. once for the sub-system, once for the titan. subtract the damage that managed to land on the sub-system from the larger number. this way a big fleet alpha from bs's won't be doing 2k to the subsystem instead of the 100k against the titan. like i proposed earlier, hits to the subsystem hp should affect the total hp, so the total hit to the titan would end up being 100k still, with the difference being that a sniper bs fleet would have managed to slide a great deal of it through the keyhole, surgically dismantling a capital ship.just make the sensor res small enough and you won't have too many issues with snipers taking out subsystems. i wouldn't mind if they did, but more in a \"skizzlefist's jump drive is primary\" alpha-fleet titan-no-go-home manner. in other words, the ability to put damage onto subsystems accurately is for small ships, but can also be done by small er  ships, thus preserving balance in huge carrier fleet vs bs fleet battles. hell, even cruisers would have anti-cap value at that point. bombers maybe even more so. 250 dps like a scalpel is a pretty focused design.skizzlefist's smartbombs got the hic, but not before skizzlefists jump drive was incap'd. skizzlefist loses supercap.i'd like to see some more entropy from the bottom up. we don't need another supercap or cap killer, just to increase the options for small ships."
"damn you skizzlefist!!!that's what i was kinda thinking would be a good focus/reason for sub-system targeting. to allow the non-bs/capital ships a reason to join the fleet. when the final killmail against that titan reads \"assault frigate\" then i think people will see what we mean."
"i agree with you 100%, but i just don't think that the current game engine can handle such a load. if it could be implemented, that would be amazing."
"this is the excuse for every other popular idea that has risen on assembly hall / features and ideas not being implemented.maybe ccp should quit wasting so much time and money making patches that suck for weeks after deployment, and fix their game up right and proper first.database errors, graphics engine malfunctions... get it right for once. otherwise... this is a 5 year long beta test!"
"as the jammers are the only ew mod that is chance based and racial i think it would be good to remove the racials and add racial scripts to be used on the multies. the strength on the multies stays like it is and the script gives it the strength of the racials. this way the fitting problems of choice which racials to fit is solved and can be adjusted on the spot, like the scripts on the sensor boosters and the scripts on the dampers."
"err. how about no? racial jammers are a tradeoff. more power, in return for maybe getting your selection wrong. to make them scriptable, would be basically the same as upping the power on multispecs to be the same as racials. as an ewar pilot, i don't think that's necessary."
"ok then make the multies as strong as the racials now, as jamming in the only form of ew that is chance and racial based. make the others forms of ew racial or chance based also or take the racials away"
"i fly ecm, and i hate bringing the wrong jammers. however, this essentially gives everyone the right jammer all the time, every time and since currently ecm is dominating electronic warfare this just makes it better.this could work, but must have a very long recalibration time  like 60s or greater  so it's not an instant \"ha i'm always ready for anything falcons are even better ha ha\". an rp reason against this is that the sensors on different race's ships are based on completely different technology and would require different mechanical parts and physical hardware, thus the different jammers.personally, i think the rp reasons outweigh the convenience provided by your suggestion. the versatility of the multies comes at a cost of diminished effectiveness. and the reason ecm is chance based is that when it does hit, it is 100% effective at taking a ship out of battle  minus fof and sb , rather than reducing it's effective abilities.in short, ecm is currently the best form of ewar and would be terribly overpowered with this. no support until rsd gets buffed or something.oh, and always use racials."
"ok, i see what prompted your argument. the difference between ecm and other ewar and the reasoning behind the balance:rsd, target painting, tracking disruption:100% chance of hitting the targetxxx% of effectively removing the target from battleecm:xxx% chance of hitting the target100% of effectively removing the target from battle"
"correct but this mod is instead of a tank and then its a chance based tank and ontop its racial, so you need to fill all or as many as with , what you think you going to fight, racials to have a chance on a successful jamm. if you fail you will lose your ship most of the time.all other ew has 100% chance of success and will add to the total damage that is done indirectly or will lead to causing less damage. but all will have a tank and only need to use 1 or 2 ew mods to be successful in their role.the script idea wont make it to powerful as you cant change scripts when you cloaked and if, what is mentioned before a calibration time before you can use this mod will be added the only advantage is that you can change your racial setup without docking."
"still, problem is there is no rp explanation for ecm 'scripts'. different jammers are physically different from each other both mechanically and at a hardware level. because of the extreme effectiveness and completeness of ecm there needs to be more limiting factors in it's chance of working. in fact, chance is really the only factor. either you did or did not fit the best module suited for the job."
"although this would be a good idea, if it wouldn't make the jammers totally op. it'd be the same, but being right all the time about your jammee is too muchout of balance."
"yes it is. currently, if you want to be prepared for everything, you must fit either multispecs, resulting in lower range and strength, or one of each racial, resulting in less meaningful trials. that's why racials are in place - otherwise it would be [edit: surprise sex]. i fly ecm, this would make me god in a griffin. not fair at all."
"having the right module fitted stays the same only you dont need to dock to change it.i dont know how old you are as i played when the jammers were not chance based, you had the strength and they added up then   total jamm strength vs ship sensor strength  , the only thing was to fit the right racials. the basic idea of jamm instead of tank, little damage output   scorp vs the other races tier 1 bs's   vs good jamming as chance based did not existthis base idea does not add up any more as its old concept and after the invention of sensor script and damper scripts   range and locktimes   this old technology is due for an overhaul and racial script should be invented"
"speaking as a falcon pilot, this really would be op. a basic limit on my effectiveness is having to balance my loadout. being able to weild 5-6 racials would be completely imbalanced."
"fix ecmecm is too powerful for 1 race. each race should be able to have their own racial bonus and caldari get bonus to their race and multispec.so amarr can use one type of racial ecm but get no bonus to others etc. as it currently stands, ecm is like having 9000 tracting disrupters and 9000 sensor dampners on you.also i would say ecm scripts, 1 script for power and 1 for jamming time. so scripts that jam you for 20 seconds have low power but scrits that simply break locks like ecm burst do have higher power."
"no-one will ever use the jamming time script except perhaps against solo targets would are doomed anyway.also, only someone who's never flow a jamming ship could say something as ill-informed and incorrect as \"ecm is like having 9000 tracting disrupters and 9000 sensor dampners on you.\" that's just utter nonsense.edit: i have made an ew balance proposal"
"then i see more in a short range more strength or longer range less strength scripts for the multies, so that you can use more powerful multie jammers on closer range, so the risk also goes up as range does not save you as it does now when a cycle fails."
"it's fine as-is, and this change would eliminate one of the balancing factors to jam setups. /not signed."
"horrible idea"
"**i searched back a month worth of threads in here to try and find this, and if i re-post an issue, i apologize.**minmatar large artillery and battleships need a buff in the sniping department. compared to similarly fit ships from other races, artillery battleships pale in just about every single category.minmatar large artillery:all weapons in have their pros/cons:1  beam lasers: pro- never need to reload, amazing tracking. cons- use lots of cap, horrible falloff, em/therm only damage2  railguns: pro- long range, high capacity, fast rate of fire. cons- bad tracking, low damage, low volley damage, exp/kin only damage3  artillery: pro: high volley damage, no cap, high falloff. cons- horrible capacity, horrible tracking, horrible rate of fire, horrible dps, horrible rangehowever, as a \"sniper\" gun, the only attractive qualities are the high volley damage and no cap usage on the artillery. in laggy fleet situations, having a whole 10 rounds of ammo per gun on 1400mm autocannons is pretty ridiculous when you have to wait 20 minutes to reload. the tracking on artillery wouldn't be too much of an issue, either, if it had the range to match it. having 425mm railguns outperform 1400mm artillery in both categoriesis pretty bad.what i would like seen done would be an increase in the base damage modifier, as well as a balance to artillery range and tracking to fit somewhere between beam lasers and railguns. also, doubling their capacity would be amazing. their high volley/low rate of fire attribute is nice and is unique to artillery, but the other stats need a boost.minmatar battleshipstyphoon: for a tier 1 battleship, the typhoon can spit out ridiculous amounts of damage, and still be able to have a decent tank. it has the same mids/lows as the armor tanking megathrons and apocalypse, and 8 weapon slots which no other tier 1 battleship has. besides it's inability to easily fit large artillery, which i believe is intentional and don't think needs to be changed, it is an amazing ship.tempest: the designer of this ship took the \"jack of all trades\" tradition a bit too far. it has a sick dual projectile turret bonus, and is basically an older rupture/hurricane in battleship form. however, it decided to try and become some sort of tanking nightmare as well. coupled with the problems with artillery discussed above, the tempest has the worst range, worst dps, worst tracking, and worst tank of all sniper battleships, which is horrible for fleet fighting. it's a slingshot made of paper, while the megathron, rokh, and apocalypse outshine it in every category.maelstrom: this ship could be a mean machine. with autocannons and a good shield setup, this thing will laugh as it melts ships. at minmatar battleship 5, it out damages a similarly-fit tempest by only 6.6%, which i guess is made up for by its tank. however, even with its abilities to fit on 8 tech 2 1400mm artillery with advanced weapon upgrades 5, it still gets overshadowed in fleet combat by the \"usual suspects\" when it comes to sniping. the increase in price and training to barely outperform a tempest is not worth the cost.so, for fleet setups, none of the minmatar are very satisfactory. module scripting and large artillery woes have doomed these ships for fleet combat. overall, a big boost to the tempest would make it a good sniper if artillery was also tweaked as far as a fleet ship is concerned. the typhoon has it's niche, and so does the maelstrom as far as i'm concerned, but the maelstrom might also need a little revision to mass in order to make it shine more in its role and fit inline with other minmatar ships.if you disagree, please say so and why. i understand that ccp wants to keep ships balanced in both pvp and pve environments, and i only have really covered one aspect. after seeing the apocalypse range change in february, i'd like to see something similar to a minmatar battleship."
"i support myself. imagine that."
"you missed this thread:"
"whoops, so i have. is it still acceptable that my thread covers minmatar battleships and all large artillery? the issues are in tandem."
"i'll support this : "
"here's a radical idea: why not instead boost the specifically made-for ships that have a sole class just for mining?iow: why create new ships to make useless barges even more obsolete when you could instead boost the lower barges?i actually do like your idea, but i think it is ridiculous enough right now, that battleships can out-mine small barges, no need for even more non-mining ships."
"i agree that barges should be upgraded before we start adding new ships to replace them.if you don't want to risk taking your rigged hulk into 0.0 space, no one will blame you. but you could definately take your covetor instead, rather than redesign a cruiser to take its place.you mean how industrials are t1's, and blockade runners are t2's of the same hull? kinda like how barges are t1's, and exhumers are t2's?cruisers are for combat. if you are worried about combat, then don't go mining in 0.0 alone. take along a few friends... since \"eve is a multiplayer game\"."
"the only useless barge is the procurer, all other ones are utilized often. and even though you can mine more with a battleship, than a retriever, the retriever can be bought, insured, and fit for under 10 mil... adding a t2 mining cruiser would make low sec mining ops more enticing, as a cruiser is much more survivable than a mining barge or exhumer. there is so much ore in low sec and 0.0 just waiting to be mined, but the risk factor is too great for most people, so this might be incentive to push people out of empire..."
"more people to kill in 0.0 i approve"
"there has been quite a bit of discussion about bars/clubs in ambulation and the fact that players may be able to own them. if, in fact, players can own bars i wanted to bring forth the idea of the owner of the bar being able to stream a real song into the game to be broadcasted throughout the establishment. this would add some flavor to the scene as well as allow the owner to add some of his own taste, after all if he pays good isk to maintain a bar shouldn't he be allowed some sort of freedom for customization? of course there would be problems with explicit songs, so perhaps the guests at the bar could 'vote down' a song that came on so that the bartender doesn't blare 'baby got back' all night anyway thats just the cool little thought i had, obviously there will be a lot of potential problems with this but if this becomes popular enough i'm sure kinks could be worked out."
"the major \"kink\" i would see if the copyright issues for ccp. so unless ccp find someway around that i can't support even if i would like to see it."
"please make bpcs have a different icon then bpos. a simple transparency that puts a mark in the corner of bpc icons would make my life much easier. after accidently grouping together 1000+ mixed bpos and bpcs, i thought i would die before trying to sort them all out."
"yes please make them different green   copy   and blue   original  or anything so you can see the difference"
"yes please ! is it too hard to put a \"c\" in a corner kinda of like how you mark bp's for tech 2."
"i would love this. but it's not possible, according to lingorm."
"not without much work, true.but if their database can't compete with todays requirements, it's time to redesign it.the current issue can't remain that way forever, it's ridiculous."
"and when they change the database, this is one thing i'd love to see fixed. but until they do, we get to suffer through having to show info every time."
"this has been explained hundred of times before.if it's that much of a problem, use the science and industry interface, it has the the copy / original filter built right in."
"i often have this issue and end up turning off the module i intended to turn off. i also like the suggestion of a cycle indicator for modules."
"/+1"
"full support."
"telling people to get learning skills out of the way during the trial so they are 'ready to play the game' when the trial ends is pretty funny. considering, you know, they'll be training skills the entire time they are playing the game. also considering that, having only trained learning skills, they actually won't be ready to play the game, if we accept the belief that noobs start with too few skills to do anything.anyone dumb enough to train learning skills so early they don't even have enough basic skills to enjoy the lower levels of the game deserves it. i'm not sure if this is even possible to do anymore with the noob sp boost, don't they start a stones throw from t2 frigates these days? assuming they combat spec ofc.anyone so impatient that they are unwilling to wait a month for an entire set of skills to finish training are going to be very disappointed when they find there are single l5s that take a month or more."
"/+1"
"yes you should be able do disable this, especially since i would hope that it would enable you to disable the dev/gm spam that occurs sometimes using the same msg window. i really hate it when they spam things multiple times, like when the pvp tourney is about to be broadcast, or some such. seriously it was already posted on the forums, and the login news screen, if i cared i got the info already, if i didnt your just annoying me. even worse one of these stupid pop dialogs informing me that the \"live dev blog\" was about to begin, actually caused my ship to pop. since it had to be acknowledged clicked  before any other ui commands could be entered."
"i whole-heartedly agree this should be a feature. when a split second can make the difference between a smoking ship and a floating pod, these pop-ups can be a killer.  yes, voice of experience there. unfortunately, you will never get them to do it. i have discussed this very item with a gm live, and his response was: \"the time warning screens are a very useful tool in our fight against macros. they are unlikely to change any time soon.\" typical ccp bull.yes we need the ablity to turn them off; but good luck on getting ccp to do it.cheers."
"modal windows are nasty."
"i understand your point, but it does seem good against macros. sorry, but i'm split."
"i hadnt thought about it being good against macros, but i would think that if a gm/dev targetted an individual with such a pop up window, then it should bypass the off toggle or it could be set up that way . for just mass general information spammage though we should be able to turn it off."
"while asteroid belts were removed from jita over a year ago, agents still remain. jita contains 7 level 1 agents, 7 level 2's, and 3 level 3's. no one with the faintest spark of intelligence is using them, and anyone who is should be kicked in the junk. it's plenty clear by now what jita is used for, so kill the agents. same goes for any neighboring systems that would bleed over. please."
"contracting damaged goods should have been an option from the beginning of the contract system, and not only for this reason."
"agreed."
"signed.it'd also be nice to consider contraband contracting in 0.0."
"nevermind, use the dev finder under forums. i'm dumb and didn't know about this tool."
"definately would be a good thing, especially if the issue in question is one that could be resolved with a quick \"yes/no/already answered in topic  link \" answer"
"do you realise that intentionally devs dont post here in the assembly hall? this is the players area, so they strive to leave it to the players to \"control\"' exception being to the posting of the meeting notes of the csm meeting in iceland. its multi-threaded interlinkage was something that only someone with board admin/mod powers could have constructed.as to your idea being put in place for other subsections of the forums, besides the assembly hall. while i think it would be nice to have, i think in the long run it would just be a self decepetion to us the player base. having 1st response post of every thread created would lead players to think they are entitled to a dev response for every post, on every subject.idea world i see this working, here on eve-o it would just become a mass cluster *****. id rather see the \"dev finder\" feature updated more frequently, 1-2hr turn around would be great. i think this coupled with an actually functioning search feature would achieve most of what your after, and be more worthwhile in the end.tl;dr = no, not worth it in the long run."
"not appropriate to the forum. and if the dev really does want to say something, op can just edit the op to link it."
"off topic.locked."
"no - it is an isk sink and not a signifigant oneit would be used to make playing dock/undock games free and dock/undock games are gay"
"it is an isk sink. and the repair bay won't go away.for one thing, it's much quicker to pay the fee and fly off than it is to wait for the reppers to work their magic.also, reppers don't work on modules or drones. so you still have to pay to get those repaired.arguing against this topic is pretty silly anyways. pilots either fit reppers, or carry them onboard. they dock long enough to swap them out, then float right outside the station and repair for free anyways. so there's no difference between allowing it just outside, and allowing it inside. the repair bay isn't getting your isk either way."
"people, seriously. stop with this \"here, here!\" nonsense. it's \"hear, hear!\". in an era before microphones it was easy for a speaker in parliament to be drowned out for that matter, in an era with microphones speakers are still often drowned out , and as such his supporters would often yell \"hear him! hear him!\", or simply \"hear! hear!\" to call attention to his words. the short version is far more common today, of course, but it still nonetheless refers to an action, and not a location."
"they're merry and lively? well, if you say so... i always thought they were lame and annoying myself. i like the original idea though. "
"this would be very nice."
"d ^_^ b"
"non constructive and not an issue for the csm. its assembly hall spam. lock please."
"bump"
"this issue has been brought to the csm's attention and any required action will be taken. thank you for the input!"
"i do agree that launching dd's should require them going into some variation of a dread's seige mode...indeed, i'd not even mind if a dd were made even more powerful if there was that requirement!"
"they already have their 'can't warp' thing, right? besides this still doesn't stop them from launching multiple and just sitting there, assuming any opposing force has been killed.make ddd like a big sb with a diminishing effect from increased radius. set medium range  40km  to take the current amount of damage. anything closer is almost guaranteed to die, anything further takes less damage. 100-150km snipers should still get hurt, but once we get to 200+ only paper airplanes should be getting popped.ships shouldn't be able to dock - it will turn into station games. give them refit bonuses and jump portal  anything that a pos could do really . give them a few more guns too, why not. make them just as super awesome, but in different, less game-breaking categories."
"not supported because this:i agree. local can stay as it is, although it would be nice if ccp wrote a backstory scientific article on this omnipotent system scanner that can determine pilot identity from ship signature  if only for rp reasons . zis would be a fair compromise, no? just say it. i like crepes."
"[x] the ninja salvager should be aggro'd to the mission runner after the first wreck is salvaged, because the mission runner owns the wrecks, and i feel that ccp needs to change the current dynamic."
"no you are terrible ebile people"
"if mission runners ever own the wrecks, then ninja salvagers will, inevitably, own them!"
"by all means please do - that would be a change i'd be happy to be associated with.because, you see, the only 'change' is that the option to defend what you see as yours would now be present. as to the rest - that can happen any time under the current system. just take one single module from a wreck and you're flagged. the choice of aggro or not is entirely up to the salvager.i'm not worried in the least about all the 'sky is falling and they're invading my mission space' repercussions. those can exist right now at the desire of the salvager. the fact that it happens only seldom tells me that it will likely to continue to happen only seldom even if there is a change.so, yes, i think it's a fine change and am happy to stand behind my support for it and any possible repercussions from it.while you may disagree with that position, i hope that, at least, you can respect that it is honestly held, honestly stated and that i will back it up."
"with a name like that i'd love to agree with you... but i can't. i don't mind the 30 day skills, i don't even mind the 50+ day skills. it's just such a damn good feeling when you get the \"skill training completed\" on one of those monsters! personally i'd rather we bring back the old days when you needed level v in a skill to take the advanced skills which followed or to fly the advanced ships dependent upon it."
"i don't remember exactly. but when the advanced learning skills were introduced, didn't you have to close out your basic skill before you could even start the advanced ones? and somewhere down the road ccp relaxed the requirements a bit to make it easier?"
"correct"
"what about the maraudors? they were never needed for doing missions but still they implemented a ship which could both do the missions with ease! and salavge the whole lot and loot with its awesomly large cargohold.traveling becomes a pain when you need to move more than one ship around over longer distances for just that one purpose of doing exploration sites.. having a ship that does both can be awesome without being unbalanced as long as it is not made unbalanced. a ship that could do a 10/10 complex and also scan its location is not desireable bit for use in low sec and high sec i see it a a good idea.players may even want to use a covert ship over a potential new ship, because if this kind of ship should be balanced, it wouldn't be as effecient as the covert ofc."
"sounds interesting."
"of course, exploring with a partner who flys something ready to do a little combat on rats really helps...i explore, and use a helios. i have never minded the swapping ships...since i mostly have a wing-person with me when i scan out sites. placement of probes for optimum coverage is easy with a little practice, if one also remembers that moons can also be flown too...exploring carries risks, and has good rewards. it shouldn't be a way to make fast and easy iskies by introducing a exploration/combat ship.arithron"
"and the worst thing is that no one really wanted to destroy speed and nanos, they want the ability, if they fit for it, to counter it without nanoing themselves...such as by fixing webifiers... there needs to be a long range but much lower speed reduction webifier...instead, amongst the changes is a 50% nerf to web strength with no increase in range!stupid. very stupid. did i mention the proposal is stupid?"
"i said this in your other thread eleanor. the speed nerf is not final. they put alot of changes on the test server to see which ones worked and which ones break the game. this will be a multi-step process don't **** yourself."
"the csm are showing their worth.hopefully they'll continue to do so and ignore the babies who'd rather whine and cry than adapt to the game's changes."
"yet people keep bugging us ingame about it .i can't count the amount of convoes i have gotten, because of it. and people are always disappointed in my answer edit: and oh, very few people actually seemed to actually read the very first line of the dev-blog."
"i guess bright yellow wasn't good enough. next time they should try red or something. maybe a rainbow - that would get people's attention."
"nano nerf gets a thumb down from me."
"well they gotta make their money somehow when people quit the game from a nerdrage at the nanonerf."
"balancing shouldn't be a csm issue unless it's game-breaking, as stated already.i would like to see more csm member views on this topic."
"since i sent out an email to all council members when i posted this post, i am not happy either.so i sent another mail and created a thread over here, which will hopefully make them post."
"ship balancing issues, as lavista rightly points out, is just one of the smaller issues that takes up a lot of time for the csm.ship balancing, imo, can never be 100% perfect for all of the eve players, due to the fact that a player can have characters in any of 4 races, with secondary racial characteristics. this means that ccp gives each race exactly the same set of ships ignoring racial differences, which would result in some races getting better bonuses in some areas and others in different areas, or it tries  as it has  to take account of the strengths of a race and cater ships towards those.this means that straight off, before skills are taken into affect, there is a spectrum of different ships that will each suit different types of players. within each class of ship for each race, there is further possible variation depending on the skills of the character and module-fitting/use ability, rigs etc etc.essentially, there are many possible types of final ship types, depending on a character type and skills etc. it then follows that there will be major differences between the ship of a certain race class and that of a different race  of the same class .this is all kept continuous in-game via the storyline, with different corps producing the types of ships for each race, each ship with its strengths and weaknesses.the problem comes when a player designs a ship they think will do well against other ships, only to find that another ship has an advantage in an area they have overlooked.essentially, the ship-balancing calls place the csm  and ccp  in a no-win situation. players want an uber-ship that can hold its own and defeat other ships. we don't like it when we overlook something and are made to pay the price on the battlefield...anyone watching tourney battles will quickly come to the conclusion that certain ship types are useful in certain situations; there is no one answer.it's essentially like cars in real life: each is made to do or fulfil different functions, they all look different and have different attributes. they even are made by different designers and manufacturers...the 'betterness' of one type over another depends upon how they are employed and who is using them, and the situation they are used within.i personally don't think the csm should be used as a portal for ships to be tweaked to make them better or like another ship. there is a place for it; it's called the features and ideas discussion forum.edit: i don't think balancing is needed, unless there is some major area that is not working as intended  eg., speed . variety, as they say, is the spice of life.arithron"
"/signed"
"signed"
