"moar poasts for this awesome idea!!!"
"/signed, i'd imagine loading a single object with lots of properties modular station is easier than many objects with lots of properties floating modules."
"already supported this, so i need to use an alt for further support."
"signed"
"absolutely"
"/signed"
"supported"
"signed"
"every sniper worth its salt has a sensor booster, stop saying that a single damp is going to reduce its range to 46km when it will absolutely not. in addition damps are stacking penalized so more damps on a single target is less effective. when people ask for an rsd boost they want rsd's to be nearly just as useful in a recon gang as a falcon is, jamming 3-4 targets at a time."
"this issue will be discussed on the next csm meeting with ccpyou can and should still support this if you think it's right though"
"agreed x 10"
"i would love to see dual monitor support not only for a single fullscreen client, but multiple clients in fullscreen mode."
"/supportedwould also be nice to be able to change/set the eve cache/setting folder path, so you can put in on your drive with the best performance, instead of your default os drive\user\etc...."
"1.0"
"the silence is deafening on that isn't it?"
"this should just be the beginning of pos changes, but in a lot of ways most players can barely enjoy themselves just playing the game. as part of a 0.0 alliance, i am ashamed whenever i'm reminded of the amount of people spending hours every day doing sadistic levels of logistics, just so that the rest of us can almost have fun some of the time."
"and offline | unanchoring one is just as bad if not worse"
"agreed that starbases need a bit of a chnge to there logistics"
"supported. as a long time pos logistics person, i can only plead to the dark ccp gods for mercy..."
"if only there was a pos fitting screen... if only..."
"i hate to agree with goons but making setting up poses tedious isnt doing anything to hinder pos spam. if you are a 0.0 entity and you want to hold or take space you do everything in your power to place as many towers as you can in the shortest amount of time possible no matter how tedious or unfun it is. you have to if you want to survive.i agree with the bob dude, and probably everyone here, that pos warfare is completely broken, but leaving it as tedious as it is is pretty bonebeaded. there is another thread about all pos modules being interconnected, i suggest everyone go check that out."
"all rsi jokes aside. great idea."
"give it the fuel bay.i think they'll still another boost of some sort beyond that to make them viable."
"heck, just making the pilot not show up in local would boost this ship"
"as many people pointed out, the fuel bay and range won't fix the issue. these ships need a complete overhaul.covops cloak, recon bonuses and the ability to actually fit them in a meaningful way -- more pg/cpu.better resists maybe too.as they stand now they don't justify the costs."
"/signed"
"signed.lots of interesting ideas here."
"supported"
"i think i will vote with my accounts against the nerf"
"i remember some pretty big changes in very early stages of eve, which is to be expected as everything was new and felt like beta testing a product.but since eve has matured, i can't think of any patch that had more game-altering changes than the one proposed here.all the previous nano nerfs are nothing compared to this, because none of them made speed tactics obsolete.dual mwd raven nerf was kind of big, but again it was a very targeted change, it doesn't quite match the scale of current nerf.the 50% hp buff was big, effected everybody - it killed sniper eagle as viable pvp ship. effected other snipers negatively but sniping didn't die, it still plays key role in fleet warfare. hp buff also made small gang pvp a little tougher, it encouraged blobbing just a little more. but not enough to kill roaming.soon after the hp nerf, with introduction of t2 cruisers in game, we started seeing development of modern roaming pvp - speed tactics.there were many nerfs, i'll admit, they altered eve pvp focus one way or another. but nothing that compares to this. we are going for a total break down half the game, with new system in its place. it's not evolution of the pvp, it's a replacement of one system with another.fleet wars won't be effected much, aside from more titan ddd deaths due to slower accelerating bs. but small scale pvp is completely different."
"against"
"/against!"
"/againstdont fu ck this game up please :"
"no nanonerf!"
"against!changes as they are now, are unacceptable. they break far more than they fix. ludicrous speed is acheivable only by very specialized, expensive ships. start with those very specialized set ups and work from there."
"i can see the need to fix some speed issues but the currently proposed changes are too many and too much. also whichever dev said \"we need to reduce speeds, let's make webs less effective\" needs to be put on coffee making duty, permanently."
"signed no nerf!!"
"support that i am against the nano nerf"
"against"
"err against"
"oops box checked this time"
"/signed"
"signed"
"signed"
"people, be sure to check the \"check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\" box when you are making your post, or your vote won't get properly tallied.thank you for your \"no\" vote on this critical issue.cheers.p.s. my vote was tallied a long time ago, so this post is just a reminder to all of you. peace."
"not such a great nerf, sonme nerf woudl be ok"
"against"
"i would be in favor of maybe 'rebalancing' nano's, though imho there not that big a problem.i am, however, against the 'let's tie a blindfold, whack the pinata with a nerfbat and see what happens' - approach ccp seems intend on following. it just changes to many things at once, seemingly without proper consideration of the results."
"against"
"/againstthe most fun i've had since lowsec tbh.it's a great way to roam, and strategy rules the battlefield again, rather than just blobin.of course you still have nano blobs, but things seem to really be in balance now to where skill matters again. there are already far too many ships that simply aren't usable now, and this is just going to toss even more into the pile."
"against nano nerf"
"against"
"signedif this goes ahead... we are going to loose a great aspect of eve combat, countering nanos has never been a problem, it forced people to adapt and use diffrent fits. if ccp gives in to the whiners ill be pretty disapointed."
"this isn't a nerf. this is a redesign. it is more likely to break far more than it fixes.i think \"ludicrous\" speeds need to be fixed. i think this is the wrong way to do it."
"this isnt a nerf its completely breaking something that was working fine."
"/me against"
"against with all my 3 chars! theres no need for a nerf that masse"
"against. pve = missiles, pvp = missiles? so what u want keep for matars?"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"signed"
"people, be sure to check the \"check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\" box when you are making your post, or your vote won't get properly tallied.thank you for your \"no\" vote on this critical issue.cheers.p.s. my vote was tallied a long time ago, so this post is just a reminder to all of you. peace."
"devs need to focus on fixing the stuff that is already broken before they go are start breaking other stuff. recoding the application to fix/offset the prevalent and increasing lag and desync should be the #1 dev priority and not just a priority.they can worry about balancing the game features when it works properly."
"against the nano nerf"
"i support a nano nerf, but this is too extreme, too huge, and too fast.ccp shouldn't be making huge sudden changes to gameplay mechanics. look where that got soe and swg."
"moar votes!"
"not totally against but this nerf is too overwhelming. killing t2 ships in favor of another classes is not a solution. i always though that nerf supposed to bring ballance. delay this patch. make more testing. use feedback from actual testers on singularity."
"this issue counts as the most popular public issue for the coming august 3rd meeting so we will be discussing it. i've certainly done some testing myself on sisi and i'd advise as many people as possible to do that too. go there, form up nano gangs and anti nano gangs and see if its possible now for speed to escape 0.0 bubble gamps. make sure the bh's and devs get to see for themselves what happens. basically - having a huge ass thread like this is good for highlighting the issue and now thats certainly been done - but its now time to get testing on sisi and coming up with some specific proposals for how to improve the changes suggested in the devblog."
"supported, i want the game to stay as is, i encounter too few nanos for this to be an issue for me and when i do, generally we beat them with other counters. if speed need be nerfed, come up with another option, do not slow eve down as a whole to nerf 3 or 4 ships."
"it's an interesting idea for a rebalancing but way too drastic with effects that go beyond affecting just the targeted so-called \"broken\" gameplay mechs.i would like to see many of these changes introduced, but one at a time so to speak, so that their real tq effects can be evaluated without breaking down major areas of gameplay for a huge amount of people to adress a type of setup that is indeed eminently counterable..."
":"
"bad nerf idea. go back and think harder."
"against."
"just say no to the nano nerf"
"against"
"you have to keep in mind that this issue is so big that it goes beyond the quest for better game balance. this issue is very much about the conflict of playstyles.you should be aware that it is possible to change a game in such a way as to make every ship balanced, yet not fun to play. for people whose ability to enjoy this game is at stake, \"testing on sisi\" isn't going to do anything."
"against"
"against"
"against this terrible nerf"
"this is a terrible nerf when taken as a whole. i am against it."
"against the nanonerf definately"
"against!"
"against the speed nerf"
"these ideas bring eve in the wrong direction."
"ummm. see previous posts."
"i am all for changing the game. however, we need to implement changes that promote small gang warfare as much as they do large fleet battles. fw is an excellent start but they could do more with future nerfs and other modifications. also each race is supposed to have different strengths and weaknesses. that is the point. they are not supposed to be so balanced as to be exactly the same. props to ccp for constant innovation and keeping pace but come up with something that does not hinder small gang style warfare to this extent.i think some of the changes are warranted but don't kill small gang abilities to fight the blob. leave us some kind of option other than blobbing up right along with them.against for these reasons."
"no support!!!this is a typical example why democracy can be a joke... hence not the best way of doing things..."
"a vote against the nerf is a vote for small-gang pvp. down with the blob.cheers,jonny d."
"signed"
"skill queue ftw !sure, with some limitations.. and dual training sounds good."
"hmm, dont give me excuses about waking up in the middle of the night to change skill. is it so hard to set a longer training skill before u go to bed?i always have one long skill and few shorter ones. i skill shorter ones during my actual gameplay, and longer while i sleep, go to vacations and such.tbh. i would use skill queue just for staying away longer period and account inactive. atm, i am really not in the mood for playing, coz its always lagy during my playtime. so, if i had skill train queue, i would simply put two 14-days skills into training and it doesnt matter, if they both train at the same time with half speed or they are truly queued, i would just let my subscription run out and come back 28 days later to see if anything changed.."
"this.i would only maybe support a skill queue if it was like mentioned in the op: 2 skills can be queued, they train at half speed until the shortest one finishes and then that one trains at full speed again.edit: after thinking about this a bit more, i think i might also support a queue that allowed an 18 hour queue-up, or something similar. depends on how its implemented, but that might be a workable solution."
":"
"its over a year i have this plugged into my head doin nothin .. pls fix"
"about time this got fixed. ccp's cavalier attitude towards the bug troubles me though and makes me doubt a dev response on the issue."
"supported 100%"
"not that it matters but ya nerf itspeed kills"
"ok checked this time :"
"i would prefer small gangs without the necessity of almost everyone in speed ships.it needs to be done."
"got my support"
"supported"
"this in general is a good thing"
"sound good to me."
"supported. die nanotards!"
"i'm in support of some of the nerf, more than i am in support of nothing at all.i think the 'pop the mwd off' and 'can't reactivate/delay in reactivating' are much needed. i also think the 10km/s cruiser is a bit much.however i also think it's too far reaching. but if it's an all or nothing thing, i'm for all."
"nerf it"
"lol at ppl who thought their hac should go as fast/ faster than frigates along with better tank gank just becasue it can be bought at a price..."
"make combat have a risk again. supported"
"yes! no more ludicrous speed stacking."
"i agree only if the cargo bay is the size of a retriever cargo bay, and it automatically packages ore in full jet-can containers every 4 minutes.also, it may be flown in hi-sec - but it will be red-flashy to everyone."
"i don't mine but i know a man who does plus it's chribba's suggestion so i just have to support this. fighter sized mining drones would be a great addition too."
"absolutely agree. if for whatever messed up reason there must be a compromise, at the very least let covops ships pilots not show up in local"
"i think that to implement this would require a complete overhaul of the scanner. which would probably include a feature to scan for active ships in the system . . . which would result in the same information anyways.and i don't think the presence of local chat has a particularly detrimental affect on cloakers, either. knowing that someone is in system doesn't tell you anything other than that someone may have noticed you enter. they could be cloaked off a gate, they could be ratting in a belt, they could be docked in a station, or they could be sitting at another gate or a planet or a moon or a pos. you can try scanning them out, but you won't find them, and you'll assume they're somewhere else. you can try probing them out, but you'll get the same results. you know somebody is somewhere, but you don't know anything more until they uncloak. the idea of using a chat channel for intel does bug me a little. but i feel that it would be redundant to scrap it in favor of an ultimately identical feature in the scanner. if we want to overhaul the scanner and find cooler things to do with it, then having that new functionality replace local chat might be interesting. but i think any changes to this system should originate with discussion about the scanner and only affect changes to local chat incidentally.and if you need an rp reason to justify it: each ship has a comm system capable of making links and communicating instantaneously across the cluster. there's actually a funny little article on it here. since all of the ship's individual communications are ultimately networked together sort of like the internet, cough cough, it's clearly possible to scan for all connections originating in the same starsystem sort of like pinning down the location of someone's internet connection. in order to cut one's self off from the link and render one's self invisible to the chat channel, one would have to close off all connection to the communications net. this would involve severing connections to the chat channels, fleet coms, the market, the map, the assets tab, the wallet . . . even iff tags on ships, and the identifier signals of scanned ships and stations. we can call this maneuver \"logging off.\" since a ship severed from the communications network is useless for nearly anything besides hiding, this maneuver is nearly always accompanied by the pilot shutting down the ship's power systems, rendering it effectively invisible."
"this is a pretty good rp reason for it. if not an excellent one. read the link it's a good one. i actually hoped ccp had something like this, so this makes me . this, however, would just be terrible software engineering in a universe with lasers in space and warp technology. the first part is sufficient.solid post though, and keep local."
"local as it is now should definitely be removed. i agree that it should show the amount of ships in the system with no ifs nor buts. it also should show the corp and alliance members in the list. but that's about it!"
"supported.just show local numbers. job done."
"this is an excellent idea, and really fulfills the unknown feeling of space. using the constellation channel, one could see how populated it is, and an influx obviously signals a enemy gang. and while you don't know where they are, they don't know where you are either. it would require the use of actual scouting, not just an alt jumping into system and reporting what local says... small cloaking ships would be invaluable for covering gates, stations, pos, etc to gain intel on enemy movements. i think this brings a new level of strategy to the game and as mentioned earlier, makes this much more realistic. this is one of the best suggestions i have read on these forums, and i would love for this to go through."
"why is it so hard to understand that the \"feature in the scanner\" would not be identical to the current local? this info would be available at limited range, unlike the current local that gives this information at infinite range.see the difference? limited vs. infinite?i hope that was clear."
"not really.if we start on the rp path someone would have to explain why the local intel on a particular system is not available in other systems. not even in delayed form. what with the ftl comm and stuff. surely this would be as simple as providing market listings across the region."
"this change will just make blobbing even more the answer to everything.you won't know who you are going to face or how many friends your enemy has so the best bet is to bring as many buddies as possible.this is realistic but not fun."
"this really depends on, for example, how the new scanning system is implemented. blobs may be made to have some considerable visibility disadvantages making them easily avoidable."
"indeed. how is it that in the several thousand years humanity have advanced in eve, they've completely lost the ability to make active radar systems, with fof built in? that said, eve already has the ability to not display the members of a chat group log into help and try to view who else is in it for an example why not just set local to the same unavailable mode as help and leave it at that?"
"\"recent speakers\""
"i haven't even participated in the potentially but thanks to lag not at all epic fleet battles, but even more moderate sized engagements get lagged up. sometimes the node slows to a crawl even outside battles and mission hubs. i've lost more isk to getting lagged out and dropped from the server and just lagged out long and badly enough i might as well have been and then boom than i have in all my pve activities in eve. finally, the marquee fleets are aspirational, watching them on youtube, reading about, knowing they're going on in the background.even those of us who do not participate in the giant fleets or live in motsu and jita are effected by this. the two most important things for keeping the game fun are balance which ccp has shown an incredible devotion to working on, whether or not one agrees with their decisions and lag control; new content is very nice, but keeping the core of the game viable is key."
"is the primary point, though, to \"fix lag?\" or to \"make large-scale engagemenets fun again?\" whether you have lag or not, massive fleet engagements under the current rules don't look like any of the awesome space battles we dream of. what it looks like is, well . . . have any of you ever played starcraft? and had a couple fleets of twenty-odd battlecruisers shoot at each other? that's hardly epic, either. in fact . . . remember that mission where you have to go capture a bunch of battlecruisers, and then another big fleet of them comes in to fight you? that fight, right there, is one of the greatest disappointments of my childhood. ccp's talked about trying to fix this all the time. you'll notice in the factional warfare thing, which would presumably be one of the \"fluff\" bits they're adding instead of fixing the lag, changing system occupation involves hitting and holding multiple capture points for a period of time. now, fw's still in a sort of fetal stage, and nobody cares about capturing systems, and pvp pilots sure as hell don't want to sit on a box repulsing rats for fifteen minutes.but . . . picture an engagement on a massive scale, with ships fighting over multiple points across several adjacent systems. capital ships blazing away at capturable targets while their support fleets scramble to fend off incoming targets. territory gained and lost, reserves brought in and sent to the front lines while the commanders try and keep ships on as many points as possible without spreading themselves too thin. doomsday weapons employed tactically instead of strategically, falling upon a point which is about to be overrun and levelling the playing field for both sides. fleets are still big, battles are still epic, and large fleet combat is actually more interesting then a bunch of battleships/capitals sitting on one grid and focus-firing each other to death one at a time. oh, and lag's better, too, since you aren't just packing as many ships as possible onto one grid anymore. this is what ccp's trying to do; it's what they've been talking about whenever i read a dev blog on the subject, and what they're trying to prototype with the factional warfare thing. is it in a workable shape yet? nope. is the current setup in the fw arena going to bare any similarity to what finally gets shipped out to 0.0 as new territory mechanics? probably not. but ccp is working on it. because they want things to be awesome, too. arguably, they've got an even bigger stake in it than we do."
"i agree, but didn't see this thread and ended up writing my own"
"1400mm artillery: increase the damage modifier, producing volley damage of 7000+ w/ t2 guns decrease the rof slighty to maintain a consistent dps value1200mm artillery: increase tracking to make it comparable to railguns and lasers increase rof slighty to add some dps, and allow for better gang use. reducing range and increasing clip size could help create a better mid range weapon, leaving the range to railguns, and dps to lasers.i feel these changes are very appropriate and would allow for more effective artillery. the boost to damage on the 1400mm guns is not enough to negate the recent hp boost, but enough to reinstate minmatar as the alpha kings. currently, lasers and missiles can match and exceed artillery alpha, leaving artillery weapons with no defining factor. railguns rangelasers dpsartillery artillery needs a role, and it currently is outclassed in every respect."
"in the light of the upcoming speed changes i think its more vital than ever to push ccp to make this change sooner rather than later since there will need to be some alternatives to going through bubble camps in the post speednerf age. hence i've added this to the agenda for sunday as a separate issue from the blackops ships we discussed in the first session and i'd love to be strongly arguing that this gets to tranquility before/at the same time as the finished speed nerf patch."
"definitely agree"
"this is what i thought covert battleships would be when i first saw it."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"oh yes please."
"/support"
"/signed"
"on the agenda for august 3rd meeting."
"i support any initiative that would increase the amount and depth of eve's prime fiction."
"/signed"
"new ideas are the best... too bad this is not a new idea. [thumbs down]nerfing local somehow, yes please, but since there are no many ways to do it like remove it completely, or just leave it there, its better to be kept as it currently is."
"pirate ganker types have been moaning about local for years. its been a bad idea the whole time. give it up already."
"/signed what carrier eleven said.ccp already gave you pirate ****ers the new militia system, so what do you want now? forget it! if you cannot get a ratter that simply uses its brain you just had bad luck! and thats it! live with it and search in the next system. and stop whining that you dont get targets ^^ other peoples do so it actually cant be the local"
"local = immediate channel brokenlocal = recent speakers channel fixed"
"we can leave local in empire as it is, so you can safely carebear through there, lots of veld to be mined. no risk no isk how about that.yaaaaaaarrrr"
"up for this, as always."
"unless another means of gathering intelligence is implemented local channel needs to remain in the game. as soon as alternative means become available, i am all for reducing local chat to grid/station range with only recent speakers showing up.but with the one sided proposition of the op, i cannot agree."
"well your idea wouldnt work for 00 space anyway, because dont they have a system scanner in some pos's in alliance space?that would put the alliance at an advantage, while putting the curious explorer at a diadvantage"
"supportwell, change it to delayed mode. show how many in system, but not who they are unless they talk.too many isk farmers now have little programs etc when they set off an alarm to alert them everytime a hostile jumps in. tehy hear it and warp and cloak. i think this is still in effect good fast scanning is a skill, and one of the few remaining skills that actual people can have left in the game. make local delayed etc and people won't get warning who is in their space.i mean 0.0 is supposed to be dangerous isn't it?"
"however even considering you have a lot of luck high sec or low sec exploration wont come close to the income you get from missions. exploration gives increasing amount of rewards when you go from high sec to low sec to 0.0. exploration is competitive as there are limited amounts of complexes and they are open to others. in other words exploration follows the same principles as ratting, mining etc that for some mysterious reason should not apply to missions."
"most of the ideas you esmenet are selling are utter crap, sorry to say. this is so blatently an attempt to make a particular facet of the game you enjoy be more profitable and thereby better for you. namely, exploration.its been a while since i have seen a more self-serving thread. you started out missioning, and now you have discovered exploration, and you want it to get a massive boost. just be honest and admit it. that would save us all a lot of time.missions have recieved a isk/hour nerf in 4 out of the last 5 major patches. ccp obviously agreed with you, at least in principle, and have hit mission isk rates hard with the nerfbat several times over the past 2 years already. but, enough is enough.some people use missions as a way to pay for their pvp exploits. others use them as a way to gain capital for their trade empires. others use them as a way to speed up their r&d efforts. still others use them as a primary way they enjoy the game believe it or not. the list goes on and on as to why missions in thier current form are important to eve.whether you or i for that matter like it or not, missions are a corner stone to the foundation concept and economy of eve as a whole. you mess with that in the way you are suggesting, and it will be a game killing event. end of story.now go post a \"boost exploration\" thread and gain a little respect from me in the \"honesty\" catagory.no support. actually, vote against if that option was available. but, the one wise thing you did was put on your suit. edit: i just wanted to make it clear that i am not against exploration getting some much needed love. i think it should. very soon. and, much of it. but, the approach you are taking is just wrong. why do you have to take away from one group of players so you can have what you want? like i said above, just post your desire for an exploration boost, and not cloak it with this crap in order to draw in support from the mission runner haters."
"i dont do exploration at all. i do missions+ratting for my isk.so far not a single one has managed to or even attempted to explain why missions should be unlimited and without any form of competition unlike any other form of making isk in eve. noone has attempted to explain why missions should not follow the regular risk/reward ratio that follows with security rating of the system. but i guess its easier to just accuse me of random things rather than try to answer these questions."
"not until you get into the large amounts of capital can you even begin to compete on an hour per hour basis with mission running and chain ratting."
"several billions? i want what you're having. the absolute best you can hope for is around 1 bil for a 10/10 complex in 0.0, which is rare and requires other people thus splitting the profits. remember i also said lowsec exploration, you can't even hope to get that in lowsec. even 0.0 exploration isn't as profitable/easy over time as hisec missionrunning. try again."
"missions are boring, so what's the point of changing risk/reward balance?f1-f8 at some npcs while watching local isn't any more fun than f1-f8 in empire."
"ok, here we go. first, let me get this straight: you claim that you don't do exploration, and that missions are one of your primary forms of income. yet, most of your points in the first post are about replacing the current mission system with what exactly? oh, yeah, exploration expansions. then on top of that you are complaining about the fact that you are making too much isk running your missions? so all of these complaints from you are for what? the good of the community? and, you won't be getting a single thing out of these suggestions of yours? riiiiight....i accused you of being deceptive and self-serving before. now i know you are a liar.next, you are acting like you deserve some form of explination to things you don't understand. well, this may come as some suprise to you, but ccp isn't exactly into giving the players what they deserve.finally, you talk about missions being unbalanced with regard to risk vs. reward like it is some kind of fact. again, this may come as some suprise to you, but ccp and i disagree with you about that specific point. otherwise the missions wouldn't exist as part of the game. so, stop talking about your opinions like they are facts and deserve some form of respect.moving on. i am done with this drivel."
"i do exploration and follow enough both the threads about exploration and the exploration channel.as in other things ccp like the 1 find in a thousand worth billions balance the crap rewards in the other 999. so far i haven't been one of the lucky finders, but different people has reported multiple times multi billions finds in high sec. 10/10 complex aren't always the best btw; the race make a lot of difference, even when they were static complex some 7/10 was better than some 10/10. i think the people reporting multi billion finds are saying the truth, it is simply a very rare event, requiring generally several escalations in expeditions, so very rare. naturally you are free to think they are exaggerating what they found."
"i agree this needs to be fixed right away"
"this may be minor, but your arguments make sense.+1"
"missionrunning is not everything.covetor is fine. it obsoletes the retriever, there's no reason you would ever use a retriever instead of a covetor. the covetor, however, is cheap and insurable compared to the hulk, so people would use it for 0.0/lowsec mining if lowsec mining ever gets fixed anyway"
"well no, it's not. but neither is pvp.however, pve make a better analogy then pvp, and even there it can be argued that 'bigger is better'... i mean, how many frigates do you see in pvp? in low sec at least i mostly see battleships and people who haven't gotten to battleship yet with occasional hacs or cssin that case why bother having the retriever or procurer? it sounds like under your argument all mining needs is the covetor and hulk and anyone not willing to invest the sp into one of those two ships should just not bother mining.my original point is that having a stepping stone with a smaller gap benefits people other then macro miners and that other ship classes generally do have a more gradual progression. the people it doesn't benifit are the hard core miners who are just going to skill up for a hulk anyway.with the mining ships, it's 'procuer and retriever a the same time', 6 weeks, then 'all other mining barges'."
"lots of good ideas, even though i've only read some of it hey, it's a long thread.i haven't seen this one here though - how about effective escorts?right now it's basically impossible to 'escort' a freighter successfully. perhaps something could be done to allow ships which could defend the freighter/hauler. in this way teamwork could play some element in the mix.in addition, since it isn't simple to defend other ships from massed fire, the theft of cargo could also trigger aggro on the escorts allowing them to defend the loot after concord shows up. if the theft cannot take readily take place, then much of the ganking will stop. if that last gets looked it, it'll have to be slower to do a transit of goods or it'll just be 'grab-warp' and the aggression timer won't help as the ship will be gone. transferring cargo shouldn't be instantaneous and a timer would help here. perhaps a certain amount of m3 per second so you could grab and flee with small high value items but not with a hold full of packaged hacs.i also fully support all of the original suggested solutions by ccp. they sound great to me.mind you - making concord less of a deus ex machina and letting the pirates try and dodge them etc. and players support them would even be a better and more fun solution for all concerned, but that doesn't seem likely."
"coad is the sewer pit of the forums, nothing constructive or even interesting is ever posted there. i have no interest in visiting coad, let alone posting there even though i was active in a 0.0 alliance for a long time. hell, even scrapheap challenge - who create an atmosphere of smack talk and silly obnoxiousness on their forums - banned their version of coad because it was nothing but mindless, juvenile flaming garbage like the one here. give fw it's own forums for tactical reasons, if nothing else. it should have stickies for maps, active player corps, etc."
"i'm against any form of \"capture the flag in space\". this is eve not counterstrike. while i welcome the discussion of any ideas regarding improvements to 0.0 they should be creative and within reason. nobody is going to want to play capture the flag on 1000 gates every single day. if you want to play capture the flag join factional warfare. while there aren't many in 0.0 completely happy with the status quo i don't see anyone racing to play capture the flag in fw either and abandoning their space.i'll read the proposal again and give it significantly more thought, but here's a counterthought for you in the meantime. 0.0 is hard. building a corp that is capable of holding it is hard. it's supposed to be that way. it's not going to be everybody's bag and many of you are going to fail at it or be incapable. it's a reward not a birthright. there's nothing about eve that entitles you to 0.0. perhaps i could offer some more suggestions regarding gate control which are more reasonable once i've digested it a bit."
"point this out if i missed it by why is this getting priority over other discussions when it's from the corp one of the csm's and he has less than 30 supports most of them from his own corp and his own alts?"
"trolling is prohibited.applebabe"
"where's the thumbs down. this is a horrible idea."
"chances are that the people demanding a 0.0 revamp are the people that would never survive 5 minutes in 0.0, much less have actually been in 0.0.shocking development.if you're going to demand a thorough revamp of 0.0, ask the people that live in 0.0 about how it currently functions, rather than a group of people that have absolutely no idea how it actually functions.i stopped playing counterstrike for a reason and if this capture the flag in space nonsense goes through, the sound you'll be hearing is the massive amount of 0.0-player subscriptions being canceled because empire people didn't know what they were talking about and broke the 0.0 game."
"i don't disagree. but i think there's an important difference between \"win this mini-game and you own this space\" and \"exert control over important locations to reap a benefit from them\". i also think the counterstrike-in-space or capture-the-flag analogies are weak in general and certainly don't apply here.the principal concept at work with the stargate capture portion of the proposal is that one of the building blocks of sovereignty is exerting control over borders and routes of travel within your space. in the absence of that control, the assertion of sovereignty is harder to make. in game terms what it really comes down to is - if you have enemy gangs infiltrating your territory undisputed, can that territory really be said to be yours?to specifically address the \"1000 stargates a day\" question: keep in mind that recapturing is only necessary when a gate has been contested. so the amount of recapturing a defender would have to do would be directly related to the number of enemy gangs they allow to roam through their space.in addition, the specific times involved can be adjusted to tweak how long it takes to disrupt a defender's control - maybe stargates need to have a 48 hour contested period instead of 24 hours, to give defenders more time to respond, etc.i do think the strength of the overall proposal is that sovereignty becomes a more modular affair that includes pos warfare as well as establishing military infrastructure outside of poses and general patrols and gate control, so it more realistically models all the things a territorial power needs to do to hold on to their space rather than making it about just one thing."
"of all the mindless **** in 0.0 we're forced to deal with, you want to play capture the flag now with stargates."
"ccp asked us for vision, this is vision. and remember there is no obligation for csm delegates to ensure that x levels of support are present in the threads they advocate whatsoever. all it needs is that the issue thread must have stood for public debate for 7 days and that a delegate is prepared to document the issue and present it the rest of the csm for a formal vote. i think you'll find this weekend a couple of other issues with similar levels of support on the \"vision\" tag - such as bane's titan concept/carrier discussion. neither of them have overwhelming public support but they are vision issues and bane has a perfect right to bring them up for vote to see if they go on the agenda. end of the day darius and i will probably be disagreeing on the sovereignty revamp proposal but thats cool, its why we have delegates from all sides of the community and it'll come down to voting on sunday to see if the csm is prepared to collectively endorse or not. so lets quit it with questioning the \"right\" for csm delegates to advocate issues as they see fit please. ultimately its what we were elected to do promote issues from our parts of the community and specialist experience and the safety valve is that we need to convince 5/9 fellow csms to get this stuff further.i'm personally very happy with the discussion that has gone on in this thread so far and consider the proposal represents a positive direction for sovereignty warfare in eve and i'd love to present it to the development team in its current form for further discussion and detailed balancing."
"why do you want this change to go through?as we all know star fraction isn't a 0.0 entity and you've sunk down to mercenaries by wardeccing goonswarm. your ceo jade constantine and our ceo darius johnson are both csm delegates. do you think this is something a guy his jc's position should be doing?"
"how about you leave 0.0 warfare to those who actually participate in 0.0 warfare."
"how about you leave this thread to discuss the topic in the op?"
"but guys, guys i wardecced you i count for something"
"wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text wall of text ps: schild says hi."
"how about you explain why you thought wardeccing another csm's alliance was a good idea? i don't usually read this **** forum, so i don't know if you've tried to justify your decision."
"i already said its crap what more do you want to me say?\"his\" vision is way to specific to mean anything it should be a very general statement something along these kinds of lines.the current sovereignty mechanics with pos warfare are antiquated and should be changed. the only reason to hold space to get access to moon's there should be more benefits to owning space."
"this is a great idea. i've been looking for a way for ccp to completely destroy eve and have to restart everything in eve 2.0.then again, eve 2.0 would probably be just as bad."
"maybe they'd buff assfrigs in eve 2.0 rite"
"actually the broad version of this topic was discussed in iceland and ccp said in this minutes thread that they wanted to hear more specific proposals from the community.i'm happy to include constructive feedback. earlier in this thread people contributed some valuable feedback that i think really improved the proposal."
"one of these days assfrigs will get buffed and be the overpowered ship, just you wait."
"kelsinjericho fractionthe star fractioni mean no offense, but i belive that 0.0 advice should be made from corps and groups that live in 0.0, i mean if you dont appear on the influence map, then you dont know enough specifics about 0.0 to suggest changes.i myself have never left empire and know so little about 0.0 life that it would be arrogant to impy major changes to 0.0 life when i dont know what im talking about.just my input."
"course by that logic only people talking about nano ship nerfs should be those that fly nano ships or know how to fight them right ?"
"if i wanted to play battlefield i'd play battlefield not eve online. it helps if you have experience with what you're talking about. otherwise you end up with eft-warriors like goumindong."
"i think the only criteria on which to judge a proposal is the content of the proposal itself. i'll certainly continue to incorporate constructive feedback."
"because people have to fight against them? i dont understand the nano problem myself there are plenty of ways to counter them. 0.0 is supposed to the the thing you do when you a big alliance to have affect on the game. if you can't cut it in the current 0.0 then you should not be trying to change its ways just so you can participate."
"i can appreciate the attempt and i like that you are trying to break up the blob, however the proposal shows a lack of experience in 0.0 and a lack of understanding of how 0.0 works. if i understand the gate section properly you would basically allow any small gang to run around contesting gates and making defending space based largely on \"how many gangs you allow to run through your space.\" gangs run through space all the time. this would make defending your gates require a near-constant defense gang and you still wouldn't be able to drive out these gangs. if you owned a single system or two this seems potentially feasible but even then you'd need to basically have a gang committed to running around chasing people off and \"reclaiming\" gates all the time."
"yes and by that logic you shouldn't be posting 5 page diatribes with an alt of yours trying to fake support with your small empire corp."
"while some of this idea could be implemented if this whole idea was implemented in it's current state i would just go around all day constesting space in my cloaked insured t1 ships."
"hey ccp don't forget to send ded mails everytime a stargate is contested"
"under the current proposal contesting a gate requires a minimum number of ships and a certain amount of time, and the contested period is intended to be of a sufficient duration to give defenders adequate time to reclaim a contested gate. i think those factors combine to avoid the need for a constant defensive effort, but do require a consistent defensive effort - which i think is valid.the times needed to contest a gate and the length of the contested period can also be tweaked to afford defenders a larger window to either directly attack an enemy gang contesting a gate or to come along later to reclaim a contested gate."
"this is far too much hand holding in 0.0. the whole idea of 0.0 is cut throat players and large alliances. you empire dwellers whined about it and got faction warfare to help tide you over, now you want to dumb down 0.0 so your small alliance can take part? either get some allies and try to etch yourself out a part of it, or just play faction warfare for that 0.0 feeling. to a lot of us out here the whole draw is the epic feeling of a large space battle, while it may end up a slide show it's still fun to take part. i don't see much reason to play if you are going to dumb it down to wow battlegrounds in space. instead of ruining 0.0 why don't you propose to create a new type of lowsec where this can occur? maybe have the rewards of this area be between 0.0 and lowsec.leveling the playing field between big and small alliances for a sandbox style game is pretty absurd. especially since this game is still around due to all of the happenings of the great war in 0.0 and random articles and coverage that spawned from it, a lot of new players joined from hearing about how epic it was. take that away and you are left with a pretty substandard mmo in space."
"introducing a broader array of elements to territory control doesn't change the harsh and brutal character of 0.0 warfare. if anything, taking the battles beyond just pos to take place around stargates and tactical arrays as well only presents the opportunity for more and better combat."
"the issue that i, personally, draw with your \"gate capture\" proposal is not the number of ships required to capture a gate or the time required to capture a gate, but the concept of gate capture itself.you accept the conclusion drawn by ccp that 0.0 warfare is one dimensional, and you are trying to remedy that. however, gate capturing only artificially creates more dimensions. you are substantially adding to the boredom and tediousness of 0.0 warfare, not removing it. all you are doing is forcing people to play, what is in essence, a glorified game of capture the flag in order to prevent their space from being compromised by a roaming gang of 10 people.you shouldn't force people to participate in capture the flaggate in order to maintain a serious claim in a region. 0.0 claims should be maintained through tangible logistic effortspos maintenance, and the ability to defend your logistics supply lines.people don't patrol their space because when they are attacked, they are attacked by a serious force. this mechanic would only serve to encourage griefing by small corps to harass 0.0 occupants rather than to encourage a need to patrol space.if you would like to encourage small gangs in the area of both offense and defense, you should relate it to these logistics supply lines. bubbles in 0.0 and their resulting gate camps is an exceptional example of an effective means of doing so, which disrupts the flow of people and all kinds of supplies into 0.0 without drastic measures, such as jump capable ships.it would be nice to fix 0.0 warfare to be less boring, but this would only at to the tedium rather than take away from it.edit: i am not defending 0.0 warfare in its current state, i do think it gets repetitive to shoot at a corp's pos's all day every day in an effort to capture a region, and that 0.0 should be looked at. but maybe you should look at the causes of the boringnesseverything in 0.0 being related to sov, and sov being exclusively related to pos's, rather than the symptomspeople only fight over pos's so we should create more things you have to do to protect your pos's.edit 2:fantastic, now in addition to horribly laggy fleet fights at pos's, we can have horribly laggy fleet fights at stargate and tactical arrays."
"well, two responses here:first, the call by ccp was for a layered model that presented small ship objectives that are independent from pos warfare, and i don't believe that attacking pos logistics is a viable outlet for small ship combat. in addition, it doesn't fulfill the request for layers, because it's still all about pos.second, there's no comparison to capture the flag - that game bears no functional resemblance to what is proposed here."
"[x] <--- x here if you do not want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on."
"chucking out the current sovereignty system is not what ccp seems to be asking. giving small ships a role doesn't have to change into fw gameplay in 0.0. 0.0 is about building space castles and conquering said castles. small ships already have a role in pvp but due to ccp's function creep design philosophy - bigger has become better. ccp needs only to change this by buffing small ships and reintroducing some real advantages to flying small ships. not change the gameplay to account for errors in game design. don't throw the baby out with the bathwater.this proposed change seems to be too drastic a change to all the 0.0 entities that have built or conquered 0.0 space merely to let others who couldn't succeed under the present mechanics to now be able to play a role."
"so, from the main points: to conquer any space, you need a big enough gang to take the stargate initially, this is given as 10 people. now, taking this gate pretty much involves sitting very still in a confined location, making you a sniper's wet dream. if you're moving, you're going to be turning a lot, and there's no danger of you warping out while mr rokh sits at 200-odd km off slinging fire at you. along with that, if you do only have 10 people, or only a few more you can be neutered by any sort of suicide tactics. after all, as long as the defenders get you below 10 people there, they're golden. so in the end, it becomes a war of attrition, which means it just starts to come down to who can field more appropriate ships.now at this point, you will probably say something like \"yes, but while this is happening they can be attacking a bunch of other gates as well!\" well whoop-de-****ing-do. so instead of a big fleet fight involving 250 ships on each side, you get one group dropping small gangs on a series of gates, and a big fleet of people on the other side travelling between them, with a group of 10 newbies trailing behind in cruisers reclaiming the gates they've just wiped clean assuming they were held long enough to even flip.the only way to keep a gate will be to have enough ships to defend it. the only way to do that will be to have a blob. eve is mobile warfare, not static. sticking a fleet of 100 people in one system doesn't stop that same fleet being 30 systems away in 10 minutes time. then, even when you do successfully claim a gate, you then have to hold it for 24 hours so their gang can't come in and retake it in half the time it took you. so that fleet not only can come and wipe your small gangs off the map, it has twenty four hours to do it in. you can't blob a gate for 24 hours? then you can't hold, or even take, 0.0 space. hooray for reducing the impact of timezones!i completely fail to see how any of this will make 0.0 a more viable option for smaller, newer corps."
"this whole thing sounds terrible and wouldn't really increase the purpose of small gangs."
"this proposal still suffers from the same problem as it did last time you posted it and when nozh posted it before: gatecamping is boring. gatecamping is more boring than pos shooting, because at least the pos shoots back. its become a necessary evil because its one of the few ways for players to catch hostiles and force them to fight or at least gank careless haulers and ratters, but enforcing gatecamping on the attackers not as a means of stopping the defenders getting in but slotting in a boring first step to unlock a boring second step is not progress in the development of pos warfare."
"yes, i can't wait to play domination / capture the flag in space. this is a wonderful idea, and i can't see any reason why it wouldn't be considered to be as annoying as hell for anyone that wanted to have more than two or three constellations under their control.in fact, this entire proposal seems to want to force people to run around fighting fires, instead of engaging in large-scale epic combat that when it's not laggy is actually fun.of course, the reason for suggesting this becomes clear when one considers the star fraction's stellar record at interstellar combat. i'd be willing to wager that this fine product from the jade constantine nonsense factory goes the same way as his wonderful and well-thought out proposal to blow up outposts."
"this sounds pretty boring actually. and how would this increase small gang warfare? it would just encourage people to camp gates for 10 minute spans. attackers would do it in their prime, defenders in their's. what's the point? it seems like this is just meant to be an annoyance for 0.0 space owners. star fraction should try to own some 0.0 space before making attempts at changing the structure of 0.0 . in the future i hope anyone making proposals about 0.0 to be familiar with it first."
"hi, i am a member of [worthless alliance i've never heard of] and i want to get involved in 0.0. my alliance is pretty terrible, but i want to control some 0.0 space and the last time i tried, i got blown up :these rules are completely unfair and as csm fuhrer-for-life, i want you to completely re-work 0.0, ignoring all those other details like \"good alliances\" because [worthless alliance i've never heard of] deserves a shot!-----ps i would like to completely blow up the rules of empire because i don't like how it currently works because [worthless alliance i've never heard of] thinks its boring in empire"
"the entire thing about stargates is terrible, all these timers are terrible.if you really think this is going to happen, specialy if the structures are in the same system, you really don't have a clue."
"carriers within eve are setup totally wrong, carriers are the end game ship & this should not be the case. carrier realistically should be weak, fragile ships. in eve a carrier can have the effective hit points of 2 million is totally wrong. however ccps role for carriers has caused this issue. so lets look at carriers as they should be,firstly what is a carrier in real life ?an carrier is a warship designed with a primary mission of deploying and recovering aircraft, acting as a sea going airbase, aircraft carriers this allow a naval force to project air power great distances without having to depend on local bases for staging aircraft operations.thats what a carrier should be in eve but the core issue with the carrier class is one ship is covering the rolls of a complete class. we have 3 types of battleship in eve. each does a different job. we should have different types of carriers. escort carrierthe tier 1 carrier, this ship is the logistical carrier, sporting the logistical ability of current carriers, it is cheaper. it cant launch any fighters but can fit four racial point defence systems. it is cheaper than the normal carrier but has a bigger jump range since the reduced mass. a lot of pilots current use carriers to move there assets in & out of zero point zero. battle carrier currentthe tier ii carrier, this ship has the combat ability, it is a fragile & weak ship. its primary combat role is to project its combat power in the form of fighters & bombers against hostile targets within 5 light-years. these fighters & bombers require fuel. therefore limiting the amount of times a battle carrier can launch its fighters & bombers. to deploy its fighters/bombers a cyno most be dropped & a assault carrier must cyno them into the system. the target must be preset. so once in they will attack a predefined target such as a cyno jammer and then leave. to do this the ships must be in some kind of siege mod to maintain contact with there fighters. carrier are long range ships if they find themselves on the frontline they are dead. simple as that. they operate far away from the frontlines & this should be reflected in eve note: this would be the thanatos, archon, chimera & nidhoggur.assault carrier tech iias assault carrier is a type of carrier employed to allow combat forces to bypass camped systems by deployment of its jump portal generator, while the assault carrier resembles the escort carrier, the role of the assault carrier is fundamentally different: its facilities have the primary role of hosting a jump portal generator. these are jump my views on carriers, they are totally wrong. the idea of the point defence system is to allow the carrier to destroy any large weaponry that make try kill it so to kill a carrier smaller weapons would be needed which the point defence system would have a harder time hitting.btw i build & sell carriers for a living, i fly them & love them but they are overpowered & wrong."
"it's really hard to pay any attention to some of the better points you might be making when you spout off rediculous bull**** like this."
"what you're asking for remains a request for the csm to give you blind approval on an unlimited number of unspecified proposals.which takes this back to the problem with the original post starting this thread. this is merely a rewording of the same proposal you offered in a csm meeting and which was voted down and voted down for good reason. you haven't changed the proposal in any way including refusing to limit your proposal to a specific set of proposals. \"sample\" of your ideas? how many more you have waiting in the wings to bring forth if you get an escalation approval from the csm?isn't there a time limit before a proposal can be reintroduced?windjammer"
"your reply is typical of goonswarm. you guys go to the same school for this?it's hardly my fault that goonswarm is iconic for a certain demographic and i'm not about to start posting like they aren't.windjammer"
"in addition, i notice that there is no mention of the far from silent majority that posted against at least one of these suggestions when it was first put out by ccp zulupark.regards,windjammer"
"first off, if the only thing approved is the carrier topic, it will be the only thing discussed due to the rules. i do see your qualms however: a perfectly reasonable worry is that the council will ask for more background information, which to anybody who hasn't flown in cap fleets before is substantial. you predict that bane will bring up more and more issues along with a personal agenda, but i think the delegates will have sense to keep everyone on topic.it is a very chicken/egg debate; i think that more of the council would be willing to discuss 0.0 in general if more of them knew what currently goes on and how it works. but unfortunately they can't until they approve of the discussion in the first place. we have to try and get the ball rolling, because so far the talks haven't scratched the surface of the entire topic.it would be nice if a portion of the csm's time be devoted to discussion of 0.0 as there is certainly a portion of eve that spends time there. give it a second chance - why not?"
"surprised to see this particular bob member trying to shoot down bane's ideas, considering i happen to know that avon is a something awful member of many years.bane, as always, expressed his ideas very eloquently and in such a way that demonstrates the amount of effort and thought he puts into everything he publishes for improvements to this game we all love.yes, you love the game, if you don't why are you reading this?"
"stereotypes are wonderful, aren't they? are you racist in real life, as well? it is pretty ignorant of you to proudly boast that you are going to continue thinking in a way that is incorrect.whether or not his response is typical or not doesn't negate the fact that he is right, and that your only retort is a personal attack.as for avon, i certainly agree that you shouldn't throw out something like \"majority\" unless there is something quantifiable to back it up. on the other hand, avon, you did it yourself by flipping it to minority. in either case, it is a petty thing to quibble over; the point is that there is a part of the population that has concern.and now to the point at hand: bane's own idea certainly moves carriers into a fleet support role, however, as some have already mentioned, doesn't take into account the personal aspect of flying a ship ie, why have fighters if the carrier pilot can't make use of them himself, or even to the extent that you would expect something named carrier to be capable of.the issue is certainly worthy of discussion, as many things are. rebalance is a tricky one, but to cover your eyes simply because it works for you is short sighted. i think arbitrarily saying a carrier cannot rep another when in \"new\" triage is silly, personally, if it works when not. if there are side effects of new triage that make it neigh on impossible to do so, that is different."
"1 \"goonswarm just wants carriers to be easier to train for so they can get more of them!\"2 \"goonswarm just wants carriers to be less powerful so they don't need to get more of them!\"look at how stupid you are."
"this post hits the nail right on. that was the exact reason the proposal was turned down in the first place.but at present, there is not a time limit before it can be reintroduced."
"the carrier topic, as bane has outlined, is everything to do with carriers. that is to say, everything that has anything to do with carriers is open to presentation to ccp if bane gets the approval for escalation from the csm that he seeks. nothing will be excluded or limited. bane is not even limiting himself to the rather wide range of ideas he's presented in his posts. he says they're only a sample.ideas and proposals for carriers cover a very wide area. you wouldn't expect a csm delegate to make a proposal to discuss the problems of the entirety of eve with ccp. neither should you expect a csm delegate to ask for and receive escalation approval to discuss everything that comes to his/her mind regarding carriers. especially when he refuses to limit himself to previously announced specifics. even ccp requires the csm to specify components of a proposal prior to a csm/ccp meeting.you say the delegates would have the sense to keep everyone on topic. that's just it. the topic would be to discuss carriers. nothing to do with carriers could be considered to be off topic.as it happens there are easy answers to the chicken/egg debate. the answer depends upon whether you believe in creationism or evolution.nothing is preventing the csm from discussing anything. they are free to discuss everything. they can do so amongst themselves or here on the forums or in any other of a number mediums. again you have, in a way, discovered the problem. bane does not seek to discuss these issues with the csm delegates or anyone else prior to presenting them to ccp at a csm/ccp meeting. he seeks blanket apporval to present his ideas and the ideas of those he agrees with and to do so without risking a discussion or vote on what he's going to present.of course the csm should discuss 0.0 issues. don't you think they should discuss them before voting them approved for escalation? you wouldn't purchase a car you hadn't seen or driven. you wouldn't purchase a house that hadn't been inspected. why would you purchase an unseen bunch of ideas without discussing them?bane has failed to bring new evidence to the table showing the csm made a mistake the first time they voted this down.windjammer"
"you know, a lot of these problems would take care of themselves if zulupark and nozh just suddenly, and irreversibly, found themselves unemployed.i honestly wish those types of proposals would fit into the ccp defined narrow scope of the csm's \"purview.\"yeah, i know, off topic. but still, blissful thoughts, eh?cheers."
"i hope your words were merely ill considered and i await your apology. the alternative is that they are the single most profoundly baseless and ignorant thing i have ever seen posted upon these or any other forums. being the author of something like that isn't a prize to be envied.in the us there are two main political parties, the republicans and the democrats. the republicans are iconic of one demographic and the democrats of another. it is not considered racist to say so. why? because the demographic is a gathering of people who have made a choice to behave, live and vote in a roughly similar way. it has nothing to do with the color of their skin.similarly, nothing i've said about goonswarm is incorrect or based upon the color of anyones skin. it is based upon the fact they have chosen to join an alliance which has a certain set of well known behaviors and composition. some of these are legendary. they are displayed within goonswarm, in the entirety of eve and easily seen in the posts made here on these forums. actions and words presented for anyone who wishes to see them.i doubt you would call me racist for saying jade constantine is a member of a certain demographic role players or that avon is a member of a certain demographic. nor would you label me with such a vile allegation for commenting on the preferences of such demographics.i see. he's right because you say so. his personal attack on me is justified and, no doubt in your mind, eloquent. i, on the other hand, am not entitled to issue a similar attack in response. oh.......and you're justified in throwing around allegations of racist bahaviour. do i have that just about right?windjammer"
"yeah. i'm the stupid one.1 goonswarm does want more of their pilots able to fly carriers and other capitals. that way goonswarms higher numbers will have more effect against lower numbers of more highly trained individuals. this is not saying that there won't still be many within goonswarm who don't train for capitals or who are a long way from capital training even with the reductions in skill training bane is seeking.2 goonswarm does want carriers to be less powerful so that all those in goonswarm who aren't trained for carriers and/or capitals see above will be able to hold sway over carriers and capitals with sheer numbers. 2ayou have to look at the specific ways that are being sought to nerf carriers. i.e. nerfing them to be logistic support for smaller ships at the expense of being effective combat ships in their own right. **this tends to cover items one and two.it's a two pronged attack upon a goonswarm problem low numbers of highly trained pilots defeating large numbers of lesser skilled pilots. attacking this problem from both ends to achieve a minimization of defense against high numbers of lightly skilled pilots. if either of these attacks is successful, goonswarm wins. if both attacks are successful, goonswarm still wins......they just do it faster.but then that's just me and as you so aptly pointed out with your study of the situation, i'm stupid.windjammer"
"i'd personally be happy with zulupark going back to quality control. i've no wish to see the guy unemployed, i just think he's a bad fit for his current job.as far as nozh is concerned? there were 4 of them that sat down for 5 hours. i think it's very unfair that nozh has to take all the heat for what they came up with in that short space of time.windjammer"
"just nerf everything that requires time, while you're at it."
"i think carriers should be force multipliers rather than the foot soldier unit of fleets, but that bane's solution in the original post is too convoluted. this is a serious game balance issue that is deleteriously affecting game-play in a lot of ways, i just wish a more elegant solution would present itself."
"agreeing with bane"
"given all bane is asking for is a longer discussion perhaps workshop? with the devs on a particularly large and complex matter, i don't see what everyone's problem is. i'm up for it."
"there are great ideas within the proposal, but it just needs to be rephrased to clearly state the extent and limits of what a \"support\" is supporting. the current phrasing is a carte blanche and that is what so many people, including myself, are wary of."
"wind, i honestly wish i had your level of forgivness and tollerance for the neolithic level of stupidity and arrogance these two devs in particular have shown in recent months. honestly, i do. i think it would make me a better person.i see your point about nozh. but, he was the one who made the blog, so its only kinda natural that he is going to get the brunt of the scorn. but, yeah, the other three sitting at that table are just as responsible for this latest disgrace.at least we can agree that zulu has no business being on the \"balancing\" team. i suppose its their unflinching attitute that they \"know better\" than all the other devs that came before them that pis_ses me off the most.ah, hell, what am i doing? it's not like anybody cares what i think or feel.cheers to you for at least reading and responding to my post wind! i'll troll off and enjoy the speed that my ships have at the moment.... i know its not going to last, no matter what the majority of players want."
"i must admit that i agree in principle with the idea from the op, but he must be specific about what he is trying to achieve. the op is asking for support to an issue which has no clear boundaries and therefore is saying support me to do whatever i feel is necessary. if the op could look at re-phrasing his suggestion to be put forward then i believe he would get a lot more support from all area's of the eve populace. as it stands his idea's that he has put forward and the idea's he could put forward cannot be given viable support by the masses.so quite simply bane, give us a specific suggestion to agree or disagree with rather than trying to pull the wool over the ignorant's eyes and getting yourself a cheap shot at changing the carrier to the betterment of goonswarm alone."
"im against this idea, there is other more pressing issues to look at for capital ships like titans dd dmg"
"no support from mewhy? while i agree that carriers could use some retooling, the ideas that the op puts forth are too broad in scope for me to agree wholeheartedly with.if bane could narrow down the scope, maybe put up a few different threads, each with an individual idea. then we the unwashed masses could pick and choose. with the way things are currently presented, it is too much an all or nothing, myself at this point i chose nothing."
"if ccp does the stuff to carriers that was being proposed in that blog, i will quit, plain and simple. it's unacceptable and is just punishing people for bothering to achieve something. carriers are fine as they are now."
"the idea that goonswarm is still made up of newbies in t1 caracals with 2 million sp each is pretty dumb, you know. like i said earlier in the thread, we already have loads of pilots who are carrier and/or dread capable - there have been goons playing eve since the beginning, long before goonfleet was formed.making carriers easier to get into doesn't benefit us in the slightest in fact i'm not sure it benefits anyone but those players who train carrier alts in order to sell them on the eve-o forums, and if anything, its dreads that we're more keen to get people into, as any one of the many people with access to our notoriously-heavily infiltrated forums will tell you. your tinfoil hattery is amusing, but ungrounded in reality. goonswarm is not 'high numbers of lightly skilled pilots', as much as the lol t1 n00bswarm stereotype is played up we have huge numbers of characters with years of training behind them, we fly supercaps and hacs and t2 sniper battleships just like every other alliance. any change to carriers affects goonswarm carrier pilots in just the same way as it affects bob or roadkill or razor or any other alliance's carrier pilots. are other alliances somehow mentally incapable of adapting to use carriers as logistic support if such a change was made?as it happens, i'm not yet convinced that bane's specific suggestions will address the issue of carriers being the generic cap-for-all-occasions, but your paranoia that every suggestion raised by a goon is some orchestrated nerf plot to make us win more fights is pretty hilarious."
"carriers should be frontline vessels, because who likes parking their billion isk and year training time ship at a pos? then carriers can also die in combat which is more fun.i like a nerf to capital rr gangs. these gangs are a plague to tranq and a huge source of lag and blobbage. i don't like making all carriers into mothership ewar immunity, that seems crazy to me. maybe jamming/dampening immune but for gods sake not pt/web immune.bomber drones sound interesting, sounds like you are taking anti-carrier role away from dreadnaughts, i'd rather give bombers to dreads so they are the offensive vessel and carriers are the support, healing vessel. in fact, what we could really, really use is a sub-capital ship that excels at damaging capital ships.carriers are the new bs of 0.0 warfare. they need to be easier to kill aka must be on the front lines they are also still swiss army knives. a real shame most of the carrier fixes in said zulupark dev blog never made it to tq."
"another word, goonswarm cant kill bob because bob have to many carriers and you want try to nerf them.... again"
"at base, carriers can deploy 5 fighters/drones of their own 125mbit/sec bandwidth, but can still delegate up to 10 including original 5 to gang members with carrier v. a mothership can use 10 fighters on its own 250mbit/sec bandwidth at base but has 20 overall to use at once.while good in theory, this would never work and if you remember correctly is also the main reason carrier changes were shot down in the past by the public so extremely. as stated good theory however with the current state of lag when hopping into mass warfare carrier pilots would have no control at all with what is going on with their fighters as ppl try to warp around and all while trying to manage the fighter allocation, remote rep etc. this idea, just doesn't work....at least until something is done about the massive node lag which may never even be able to happen etc.another point is the whole making carriers easier to get into. you think that if you made carriers easier for someone to get into that suddenly there would be less of them? please don't take this as a bash it's not meant to come off that way. overall i think ccp has handled carriers just fine as of late. they got rid of their hauler ability no more haulers loaded with cargo and over the years have done a pretty good job in balancing the cap fleets out. capital ships such as carriers are more of an end game ship and one that takes well over 2 years to fully get into with proper skill levels in each area.people use the term capital online and yes there are more out now but it makes sense 5 year old game however if this really was the case why doesn't everyone have one so you can counter insert random cap attack here an attack with some of your own? i am willing to bet it's because of the huge pain in the arse and amount of time needed to train for one correctly not just get in it."
"tbh, this thread completely lost my attention at the word \"zulupark\". the op might get more going on here if he removed that word from the thread title and his subsequent posts."
"hmmmn. not too sure about this ...take my love, take my landtake me where i cannot standi don't care, i'm still freeyou can't take the sky from metake me out to the blacktell them i ain't comin' backburn the land and boil the seayou can't take the sky from methere's no place i can besince i found serenitybut you can't take the sky from me...iz"
"since you mention lotro so much, i'll go with that analogy. as long as, just like in lotro, there is a switch to turn player played music very much off, i don't care what you guys do with this.it does seem like a silly waste of ccp resources that they claim to have so few of, when there are key elements of the game that are still broken in need of dire attention. ui faults anyone?but, whatever, as long as i can turn you and your macarena off and am not forced to listen to it while i am in station....oh and no, i wouldn't exactly call this post \"support\", so no thumbs up for you."
"i agree."
"i also agree. not only is it completely out of touch with the eve realm but its a waste of resources.try something that fits with the dark and dangerous world of eve like various forms of gambling."
"but look how many people want it. this is getting more support than exploration ships and council of ship balances combined! clearly it's more important because that's what this forum is for... i think. thumbs up."
"crap idea. one step away from every other carebear mmog dancing and instrument playing loops while afk. add it, but only if i can club them over the head and rip implants out of their skulls."
"actually given that this effectively kills the possibility of reliably having an invention market on this and with the nano nerf bat coming, and straight dps tanking back in style.well to be honest, it's a mild issue that is definately in needing of being addressed."
"get rid of it."
"indeed."
"i like the graphic.. but for some reason my sensor booster graphic has changed and it now looks like a permanent, unmoving blue missile explosion graphic :|"
"i hate it ;p"
"it's ugly as hell. i was at a pos shoot recently, watching a bunch of sieged revelations pour beamy death into a tower. despite the fact that shooting pos is boring as hell, a squad of revs with broadside after broadside lancing out into the forcefield looks amazing.except for the fact that they're obscured by stupid blinky rings that don't clip properly, seem to extend 50km out into space some times, and honestly can't do much for my framerate.please make it smaller and less obtrusive."
"fugly tbh."
"agreed."
"carriers need this"
"obcourse"
"scan probes are a form of ammunition and can be in the hold of stored ships. there was a reason for this nerf, carriers had become the swiss army knife of eve. if they undo this nerf then we go back to that and within a few months they'll be looking at another, perhaps bigger carrier nerf. do you want any of the changes from the infamous reviled dev blog instead?"
"agreed. i routinely carry lots of spare fittings on extended deployments and it's a real pain not to be able to use an sma to store my ship or have it carrier-jumped elsewhere because of that. ditto for ozone, not just for cynoships but also for taking jump bridges; have fun flying fifty jumps because you had to jet your ozone to store your ship and there isn't any available anywhere by the time you get it back out."
"agreed!"
"did you even read the op? the replacement ships provided by ccp for importation and mineral handling outshine the pre-nerf carrier's ability to do the same job by a significant margin with a lot less hassle and somewhat less training. it's not like people will start training for carriers before making the train up to jfs or rorqs in the event this change is reversed. all this does is remove a lot of the hassle currently in place to prevent a now obsolete use of carriers thanks to ccp providing alternate means to complete the job."
"when this nerf went live, it was just one in a long line of lazy \"balance\" nerfs that were poorly thought out and even more pooly implemented. hell, from this same \"patch\" mission runners are still dealing with people as cargo that take up 7m3 or more each. on some missions a person as cargo takes up 1m3, on other missions its 7m3; and everywhere in betweem. please..... ccp, at least pretend like you know how to code your own game.this was also promised to be fixed more than 3 patches ago in live dev blogs. and, has been promised to be fixed in every patch since.get on it ccp. fix this, and other m3 loot maddness that you instituted on a poorly though out whim."
"agreed - the ozone issue affects both cyno ships and any alliance with a jump bridge network. the module issue affects everyone using a smb/sma.now that jump freighters and rorquals are commonly used for even moderate scale logistics, there's no reason to not remove the restriction on pos fuel for carriers as well. individuals and smaller corporations should be able to use carriers to move pos fuel and strontium more easily in 0.0. it will encourage them to expand into 0.0 space by requiring a more utilitarian ship carrier. miners will likely still gravitate towards using a rorqual, but for those who rat or do complexes they should not be required to have a rorqual or jump freighter simply to set up and service a few medium pos's."
"agreed. i somewhat understood the change at the time, but everyone who plans to use one has a jf or a rorqual, it's time to ease the restriction on us carrier pilots who really only ever used our carriers to carry combat supplies to begin with."
"carriers had become the haulers of eve because there was nothing else. there is something else, something better, now: jump freighters and rorquals. this change was instituted to force people to switch to those ships: they have. the people that have switched to them aren't all the sudden going to go back to using carriers, because they will never carry as much. reverting this change makes those of us who use our carriers for the intended purpose, have an easier time of it. that intended purpose is front line logistics and combat support."
"i would disagree that jump freighters and rorqs are patently better than a carrier able to fit haulers with cargo in them. why? carriers have a longer jumprange.carriers also have the added benefit of having far more numbers in existance and use, and less cost to build one. reversing that nerf would put us right back in the position for a carrier to be one of the viable options for the hauling jobs it clearly wasn't intended to do.the only way i would support removing the ammo-only restriction is if only combat ships were allowed in the carrier's sma i.e. no haulers or barges. the haulers and barges could still effectively be moved in the smas of rorqs.i agree the restriction is a nuisance, but it fixed a real problem, so the new fix should not bring back the old problem. disallowing haulers in the bay is one option for solving both problems at the same time."
"pweese!"
"having to move stuff between my corporate hangar and the ship cargo hold before i scoop it and after i launch it just make my day that little bit less enjoyable. anyone that needs to move large amounts of stuff long distances uses jfs and rorqs, and has the logistics in place to cope with the cyno chains needed. this \"nerf\" just serves to annoy these days."
"poast"
"well most every one hates the speed nerf in its current incarnation. i have an idea that would address the issue with out dramatically changing the dynamics of the current game play. also with out destroying the effort people have made to train skills, buy mods, implants. i started a thread in the game development forum with this idea. and it was pointed out that i might want to post it here. so in an effort to gain some exposure here i go. ----------------- copyed from thread-----------------i have a simple and elegant solution that would address the proposed speed problem. one in which i believe the player base with accept with out too much fuss and it still will address the speed issue definitively. im not sure how knowledgeable you are with aeronautical terminology so i will keep things simple. i propose there be a new facet introduced to all ships. not just hull based and that new facet should be called vne velocity never exceed. this is an actual aircraft rating in the real world. in layman terms its a speed at which you start causing abnormal stress/damage to an aircrafts hull. ie if you exceed the vne too much for too long the wings will rip off or cause other catastrophic damage. by instituting this new dynamic you will be able to effectively kill the ludicrous speed as noted in the blog. with out the huge sweeping changes that are on sisi now. as an idea how this would work: say a ship has a vne rating of 5k/ms. now if that same ship exceeds that rating it would start incurring hull damage. now the amount of damage incurred vrs the amount of speed over the rated vne is of course variable. and just as in real ships/aircraft some hulls are built more heavily then others. since this new dynamic is based in real life most every one will understand it and accept it. and bluntly it just makes sense that this is how things should work. just as in real life: sure you can strap a mx missile to your back, nothing is stopping you. but youre not going to live long if you fire that bad boy off. but an important effect of instituting a change like this is you can leave all the modules and implants at their current nominal values. so people with snakes in their heads or people that have a lot of time in trained skills dont wined up having their efforts completely destroyed. of course no one is ever happy at the prospect of having their efforts completely destroyed by the institution of a new policy. i think most every one would agree that this would not kill small gang warfare, but rather it would add a new dynamic to the necessary piloting skills to be successful. since speed tanked ships dont fit reps having even a small amount of hull/armor damage is a huge factor in the decision making process of any one piloting a nano/speed tanked ship. conversely people might actually fit remote hull repairers to their ships for after combat repairs. and since these modules are very power thirsty, i would not think they would/could be use them wile still in combat. and i would bet most people would acknowledge that remote hull reps are almost completely absent from roaming speed gangs. most importantly in the end analyses making a change like this adds new decision vrs penalty choice that every pilot would have to make. yes people would be able to go at ludicrous speeds, but not for long and not with out a penalty. and as an added benefit since you are not making a huge change to the game dynamic. so i would expect the resulting unexpected result of x nerf would be greatly diminished.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------link=====my idea in the other forumthere has been alot of good ideas thrown out in the thread. please check it out and post your thoughts."
"this was a lot longer until i read through the other thread. short version:in space, there is no air resistance so vne is not justified in an rp sense."
"every time some one posts this response im shocked and dismayed, because this was covered over and over in the thread. read please vne doesnt have to be based off of drag/resistance, but rather g-force loading, vibration, hull stress, heat or any number of influencing factors. or it could be based off of a combinataion of factors.hell a vne could be blamed on the fuzzy dice falling off the rear view mirror. any of them work. but its the principal of a vne that follows logic."
"don't feel bad a lot of people don't understand how space works.support, but i still add that it just build up your heat meter in the middle of the ui."
"g force, vibration, hull stress, and heat all come from acceleration not your top speed. i would support an acceleration cap. fuzzy dice, i doubt anyone's gonna go for that."
"i support this idea whole-heartedly. this is brilliant in its simplicity and elegance.and, most importantly, it is a direct slap to the \"balance\" team's way of doing things. ccp's answer to perceived \"problems\" is always the same: namely, bring out the nerf-bat and bludgeon everything in sight to death.it is so nice to see someone bringing up a possitive way to deal with this issue rather than all of this negativity we constantly get from the devs.lesson ccp: be possitive in your solutions. add new stuff to deal with \"issues\" that you perceive rather than simply breaking out the nerf-bat to bludgeon the player base into submission.of course, ccp is going to blatantly ignore this like the do every other good and reasonable idea that comes along. but, nice to see someone is actually trying. thank you op."
"e=mc2as the speed of the object increases the mass of the object increases. so as the speed increases the internal stresses being placed upon the ship by the creation of its own gravity well and outside sources of gravity increase along side it. the ship would crush itself somewhere between a full stop and the speed of gravity not including anything else like...i don't know... being shot maybe? agility is already addressed but as far as vne not being realistic its simply a reflection of your education that you don't know the theory of specialrelativity and how it applies in space.oh and don't give me that \"its just a theory\" crap because its a theory until it's proven right or wrong and right now its neither but it does work in newtonian physics which do apply to all things larger than the atomic level quite well.neither supporting or not supporting. read the other thread and its an ok solution but it continues to add load which is something that needs to be avoided if at all possible. load means more lag and we have enough of that already. the calculations would have to be done server side to avoid cheating and well the rest is history."
"actually, if you want to get really technical, acceleration is one of the ways you get all of the above factors in 0-g. but, when applied to eve combat situations, the primary way you would get load stress is from rapid vector changes at those ludicrous speeds.that is why i support this idea, vne is a rather simplistic way to apply a limit to the system that has a basis in reality. after all, most of the eve physics engine is based on what we understandstood about reality and space travel. i don't think ccp would keep phd mathematicians and physicists on staff otherwise. just my two isk....."
"thank you, i just wanted an idea that didnt destroy all the effort that people put in to their toons.wile still addressing the issues and it just makes sence.a person cant expect to just put some ungodly engine in to a car, and go 6000 mph with out the car falling apart and killing the driver. no matter if its a car/plane/boat there is always a limit to how far you can push it."
"no, you are skewing my logic to prove me wrong. of course that would be unreasonable. yet the issue here is not the velocity as you suggest but rather the radial acceleration, which should definitely be limited. i am not talking about change in speed i'm talking about change in the velocity vector. as such:rapid vector change is acceleration by definition. i'm not just talking about linear acceleration; i do understand 3 dimensional vector mechanics. it is this combination of speed and agility that is problematic. ships could go as fast as they want as long as they turn like a tungsten school bus as limited by their maximum acceleration."
"i fear thats going to be the case since they already started down the \"hit em with the w.m.d. of nerf bats\" route"
"a rhetorical question does not prove anything if it is rebutted. the fact remains that while it may solve the problem, it is more artificial than actually implementing sound mathematics and physics. our individual views are the extremes, and personally i think the current mechanic is a balance this is believable enough physically, but simple enough for a time-sensitive mmorgp."
"but you didnt rebut, you conceded the point. then you switched tacts to a different point."
"firstly...it is like that in real life because there's air. there's none in space.secondly...that would just mean that every ship of x type goes y speed, rather than it varying based on modules, skills, implants, etc."
"i think its more a case of how do you implement this system in a way that is fast efficient and does not generate any form of extra strain on the servers. if at any point in developing an answer you come across the idea of major redesigning the server back-end some people might find the sudden urge to kick you in the ballsack. as the amount of time and money that would needed to be spent on such endeavors would far outweigh any result they will bring.ideas that sound nice are nice, but they also need to be practical and implementable. from what i read of your idea it sounds like a hell of a thing to implement without causing extra lag to a game already suffering enough of that."
"first=== read the thread!! vne doesnt have any thing to do with air resistance in this case.second exactly!!!!! so all the people with skills trained or alot of isk in to mods/implants dont get shafted. but the speeds are still brought down. so its a win-win for every one."
"i think its more a case of how do you implement this system in a way that is fast efficient and does not generate any form of extra strain on the servers. if at any point in developing an answer you come across the idea of major redesigning the server back-end some people might find the sudden urge to kick you in the ballsack. as the amount of time and money that would needed to be spent on such endeavors would far outweigh any result they will bring.ideas that sound nice are nice, but they also need to be practical and implementable. from what i read of your idea it sounds like a hell of a thing to implement without causing extra lag to a game already suffering enough of that.how is that? you already have a throttle that you never use.and we also have the triggered event damage over loading modulesour speeds are already tracked look at your over viewthe only question comes down to how much damage vrs how much speed over vnethe tools needed to do this are already in game in one form or another.but as i said in the thread we would probably need a better throttle to help regulate our speeds easer."
"you cannot artificially set a vne in space. i'm moving in a straight line - not practical for combat or anything but travel, but i'm gonna do it. my thrusters are activated on low - the acceleration on my ship is very small. there are no other forces acting on my ship. why would i eventually top out at a speed?no there is no hull stress b/c i'm accelerating slowly.there are no g-forces b/c i am not turning or accelerating excessively fast.what physical property is limiting my top speed? or is it purely artificial?turning radius should be affected. this is why you align slower as you are moving faster. this is why when you try to orbit at 5km with your mwd active, you don't move at top speed. thing is, these are currently implemented because the devs understand basic 3-dimensional kinematics. the fact that there is no air resistance is very, very relevant. vne relative to what? the grid? the ether? please."
"since you seem so insistent ill answer your question. but before i do i would suggest you brush up on you physics.a vne can very likely be explained by the hull stress associated with passing through the gravitational wells of all the celestial objects with in a given system. however to be truly accurate ccp would need to calculate the gravity wells due to their mass of every item in a given system. and plot their proximity to one another. since this is not feasible a static vne makes more sense."
"the only time i would be passing through anything like this is during warp, but at sub-warp speeds i don't thing this phenonmenon is an issue. show some maths saying that gravity wells aren't completely negligible at current game speeds i'll let you go up to 20 km/s."
"as i said please brush up on your physics. i am not going to continue a conversation with some one that is #1 looking to argue. as you appear to be#2 not competent to carry on the conversation. first you say that there is nothing to warrant a vne, now you say i dont think that is an issue with out denying the plausibility of the argument. im not going to banter with you."
"just for kicks and giggles, because i feel nice tonight. here is the reference material you need to get up to speed.dynamical friction"
"what area of science am i 'clearly incompetent'?i'm not doing this just to argue. you may be right but you haven't provided enough evidence to warrant my support or that of many others. i'm trying to strengthen your case as an alternative to the proposal in the dev blog.edit: perfect, thank you. i'll read through that.also, i've been quite clear that i don't support a vne but would support a limit on maximum net acceleration.edit2: ok, gave it a look. sounds like this phenomenon would occur if a titan flew by a bunch of frigs, dragging them along. does it work the other way with ships moving relative to planets?"
"as i said in my other thread, i kept things simple for the masses since most people would be able to understand it with the analogies i used in the post.p.s. ill leave the math to you, i am not nearly motivated enough on this subject to dust off my graphing calculator. so i assume i have your support now? edit mass is mass ill regardless of the source. just remember celestial objects are orders of magnatude larger than even a titan."
"edit2: ok, gave it a look. sounds like this phenomenon would occur if a titan flew by a bunch of frigs, dragging them along. does it work the other way with ships moving relative to planets? on that part i'm not convinced but i'll give you my thumbs up for your massive effort here. maybe this deserves some sort of consideration."
"see edit above"
"ttytt, velocity never exceeds some value in case there is some major counterforce, like friction. in space, there is no friction, so the only limiting factors are the engine thrust and the mass of the ship. if you install some module, that gives you +xx% velocity, this means that you increase the engine thrust. if you install nanos, you decrease the mass.if you add this \"vne\" value, you may make the modules useless. it is not the right way to do it. you may as well add \"dpsne\", \"cargone\", \"sensor stengthne\" and so on. it should not be done like this, but should instead be balanced by the means of tuning the mass, thrust base velocity and modules effects."
"edit: yeah that works. i don't understand how it's applicable and will defer for now."
"if you dont read the posts you only show your lack on knowledge on this matter. for gods sake at least read the link i posted. there is friction in space!"
"im not against the nano nerf.. but i think in general this is better.. very interesting read.."
"now lets get real technical: every time a ship would traverse a gravity well at an oblique angle the effective thrust vector changes. as a result the ship would have to change its own thrust vector to maintain its course. in effect trying to bend the ship.ill leave you to draw your own conclusions on what effect this would have on a ship. but in my mind all these factors add up to a pretty conclusive argument for a vne"
"i don't mean to bump this back up as i don't support the idea but he is right. there is indeed friction in space.the idea that space is a vacuum is incorrect. due to the nature of gas and matter there is no such thing as a perfect vacuum. that being said there is very little resistance in space compared to an atmosphere but there is still random stuff everywhere.however i do have an additional issue with the idea that further separates me from being able to support it. the problem is you must assign this damage a type and that type can also have a resistance or else you basically have to do a massive rewrite of the games dynamics from what i understand. so while you would cause a problem to speeders the nature of damage would remain so that it had to pass threw the shields and armor which can in some cases have very high resistances thus making them capable of sustaining these speeds.if it were somehow limited to only the hull then all you would need is a hull repper to be able to maintain a significant speed still. removing one low slot will slow folks down but not a hell of a lot in some cases. if the damage is still done by damage type then a dcu ii could mitigate it further and turn some ships into speed freaks while others would be hugely nerfed.not a fix imho."
"gravity fields are not affected by shields or armor. if an object has mass then it is subject to gravity.at extreme scales even if some thing doesnt have mass, its still subject to gravity so resistance factors are completely irrelevant. you can not resist gravity. and you dont mave to assign a dmg type. look at over loaded modules of corse it stated as heat there is no resistance check there. only a skill check.no one is saying this is a perfect out of the box idea. of coarse it needs some details worked out. however its a lot better then nerfing <U+FFFD> of the modules in game, and screwing over the people that spent time training skills, or those people that spend huge sums of isk on implants. edit: hull repers are very power hungry. trying to run even 1 serously gimps a speed set up. not to mention the dps as well. if you had actualy read the other thread you would have seen this topic has been coverd in detail.edit 2: even if some one had 6 hull repers runing remember that vne is a dmg over speed. ie go to far over vne and it dosent matter cause you could insta pop you self. not to mention nano's reduce your hull hp!!!!!"
"first i agree that the speed should be relative to the mass. however in reality thats far from how ccp has the game set up as the caldari who historically used smaller, faster, more agile, close range ships to fight the gallante somehow use slower, larger, and long range ships now. shields are energy not matter and therefore have no mass yet people are complaining about the mass changes to caldari ships and the lighter caldari ships are even slower now than ever. so this argument is counter intuitive to the way ccp has configured the ships entirely. size and mass seem to have nothing in common with signature radius and speed despite appearing to be directly linked. a rohk is huge and slow compared to any gallente battleship yet its physically smaller and lighter. which makes absolutely no sense but there ya go.after seeing the changes i don't like them either but we need the correct fix the first time not the wrong fix several times until we get it right.i don't care how power hungry a hull reper is if the damage is to be anywhere near realistic then its going to start low and get higher the faster you go, so a hull reper gives a buffer zone in which this person can function and depending upon how fast the person wants to go they simply need more hull rep. which is a form of tanking though its disfunctional at best allows a speed tanker to focus on that with 2 modules and allows his mids to be diverted to ew or cap. it won't be the same but it wont be much of a nerf either.yes nano's reduce your hull hp's and yes its damage past a certain speed but your not going to insta pop and if you do i really don't like the idea because lag would kill every pilot capable of going over vne.sorry but i still don't agree. i would rather see ccp to fix ships to be realistic to their historical accuracy and physical parameters and properly balance the ships from there rather than nerf half the module but thats what they are going to do it appears."
"nerd hat on:true that there is no air resistance, but there is a relatively speaking large amount of hydrogen, helium and some oxygen atoms out there in solar space - hell, even in intergalactic space sending your spaceship into relativistic speeds is going subject it to some rather phenomenal impacts since at those speeds even singular atom impacts will have some rather huge energy releases.that said, eve lore avoids the ussue through utilizing warp as the solution for faster-than-light travel, and the speeds we're talking about in normal maneuvering are miniscule - actually slower than the space shuttle in most cases.so yeah... i've always been a bit annoyed about that part of travel in eve - gief elite-style newtonian physics engine please. :d"
"fully supported, as i did in the first thread. this idea should at least be talked about and thought over by ccp. it may not work/be feasible in the end, but it's an interesting idea that presents some interesting mechanics."
"thank you i/we need all the thumbs up we can get lol"
"so anyone that disagrees with you is not only wrong but is being argumentative. your incorrect. during the war the reason why the gallente developed drones was to counter the small fast ships of the caldari. early on the caldari focused their efforts in one man fighters but when drones were developed they increased the size, shielding, and firepower of those one man fighters and called them frigates. they then were the first race to be given pod technology by the jovians and employed it successfully in battle against the gallente. i suggest you read the chronicles.gallente-caldari war: the early daysgallente-caldari war: the breakoutgallente-caldari war: the war drones onthe chronicles make reference to the gallente ships as slow hulking ships that are not much more than orbital bombardment platforms. that being said how does a blaster shoot the in earth dimensions 160km's to the surface of the planet? it doesn't, a railgun can though and would be capable of covering a large area of the planets surface because it can fire from a higher altitude.how ships are currently designed and how they were from the start is not correct according to the history of the races produced by ccp. why...who knows but in this i assure you i am correct. why this obsession with the idea that i didn't read your other thread? i did read it and your response to how lag will be a non-issue is equivalent to saying that doesnt exist at all. the truth is it does and will kill pilots who try to limit their speed. the lag will reduce a pilot's effectiveness in using throttle and knowing how fast one is traveling will be delayed to the point where if you don't know your going really fast then you will simply \"pop\" and not know or be able to do anything about it because of the lag. unless your proposing additional changes to the games ui and then thats not a simple vne change now is it? signature radius is indeed based in fact. if your sensors pick up gravemetric or gravity wells then your mass is what makes you a target. the game was intended to work this way but it was never adopted. however, the principle still applies that signature radius is based on the size of a ship. frigates have a very small signature radius and battleships have a large sig. the problem comes when you park a rohk next to a ship that is larger in length, width, and height like the hyperion and megathron. then, and thanks for saving me the trouble of looking it up, you point out that the rohk, the smaller ship, has more mass. it has the largest signature radius too. it has the same hull or less than both the mega and hyperion and less armor than the hyperion. yet more mass? what do the caldari build their ships out of the heaviest possible materials they can find? do they use some kind of unknown material in this world that is not only really heavy but intentionally returns gigantic sensor signatures? i doubt it. so while it has a basis in the game on size as demonstrated it fails to follow those rules on a ship to ship basis though it does quite well on a class to class basis."
"do me a favor and stop making yourself look stupid. the hyperion, megathron, and thorax are not long and narrow? coulda fooled me. of course theymega and hyperion are longer, wider, and taller than the rohkbut that makes the rohksmaller. yet heavier and not an armor tank.not that that makes sense or anything but dont let that get in your way. oh the shape of the object doesnt make a damn bit of difference as to how much inertia it has. only the mass of the object but hey i only work in aerospace building some of the most sophisticated aircraft in the world i dont have a clue what i am talking about.oh and i know about the mass, thanks for making my point. take your own advice then. quit talking out your ass.now if someone doesnt agree with your point of view you need to learn to accept it. you have done nothing in this thread or the other to dispel virtually any concerns others have expressed that made any sense whatsoever. badgering people to try and stop isnt going to convince them you are correct. make an argument, if they dont agree then dont repeat the argument and call them stupid too. you got a lot of good comments over there but over here is where the rubber meets the road and your arguments are weak and so is your idea."
"i support this"
"wow red youre brain is so full of fail its astounding. im sorry you seem to lack the education/intelligence to understand these concepts. but here is a helpful hint for you: dont confuse game lore with game facts! any one that has been here for a decent amount of time would know first hand the caldari have always been slower and less agile then all the other races. its been that way since beta and its that way now. sorry but its the truth. and youre assertion about the shape of mass not affecting moment of inertia is flabbergasting. i am truly astounded some one would profess to understand these dynamics and then spew something like that. since you seem so incompetent in this subject ill provide you some reading to educate your mind. so next time you might be able to comment on this subject in an intelligent fashion.moment of inertiaon a side note: signature radius is based in fact huh?? ok for arguments sake show me a link to any sensor anywhere in the world that measures sig. radius. any sensor that has ever been made or any sensor that is proposed for the future! and i will relent my argument, and publicly apologize! you work in an aerospace building huh? i guess it doesnt take much education to clean out the bathrooms."
"i support this idea"
"i really like this.."
"thanks guys"
"rezaa the moment of inertia is based on a body rotating. not the directional velocity of the body.again, anyone who disagrees with you is now ignorant? i never said that caldari ships were at any time in the game faster than minmatar but the lore says they are. so my point is why would the game be completely different the the story's that are free to people joining the game? we don't know but it would be far more interesting if they were. the lore was written by ccp so that makes it an out of game fact. oh and check your stats again. almost every single caldari frigate is more agile than the other races frigates just for starters. the stat is called inertia modifier i believenot in front of eve atm and less inertia means better agility. so my point is shields weigh nothing and armor and structure weigh tons. why do shield ships weigh more and go slower than armor ships. it's counter intuitive. this has nothing to do with your vne proposal so why don't we agree to disagree and leave this part out of future discussions.signature radius is an all encompassing term for \"how well your detected\" so while your busy pulling you foot out of your mouth why don't you look infrared sensors, motion detectors, radar, and ladar. if you say signature radius has nothing to do with how these works then your wrong. the easiest example is how can a person be detected by a home security motion sensor and yet a fly can zoom around happily without setting the sensor off? well its because it can't detect the fly because it's cross section or signature is too small. sounds a hell of a lot like signature radius to me but don't let reality stop you.again, you try and insult people to get your way. then you question my education after you cant even understand the principles that apply to the link you posted. and i fail?"
"per you wiki link describing moment of inertia as:\"it is the inertia of a rigid rotating body with respect to its rotation.\"this is used to determine the stresses imposed on rotating bodies. this is how they figure out how to balance the tires on your car. not the maximum tolerances of a body in straight and level flight. air or no airbecause as has been pointed out by me and others there is in fact always air.i don't want an apology. just stop defending your idea like people who don't agree are ignorant. you don't even have to say your wrong. hell i even defended the basis of the idea in the other thread shortly after you posted it but here and there you attack people who don't agree and its not conducive to proving your idea is sound.at a minimum you need to edit and clarify your original post in both threads and discuss how you would resolve lag issues. i still don't think it would be resolved because your proposal is to simply \"never step on the gas\" yet thats what nets you the best acceleration right? so by never stepping on the gas you never get up to speed as fast as possible and throttle back or you throttle up and hope lag doesn't kill you. hence the lag problem. not to mention the additional calculations the server would have to perform would amount to additional load for each ship so even more lag."
"imhorigged mwd, all level 5 char with t2 mods nano fitted...ceptors - 6-7kms increase max skilled warrior ii's to fly and hit at 6kms, 7-8kms with drone navigation modsfrigs/assault frigs/vagabond/destroyers/interdictors 4-5kms give interdictors much poorer agility than frigs, destroyers and the vagabond, cruiser agility and high masscc/hac's/stealth bombers 2.5-3.5kmscs/bc's/reckons/t2/faction bs 1.6-2kmsbs 0.9-1.2kms give gallente and minmatar even amounts of greater agility and lower masswith snakes, or gang mods barely allowing the class below to overlap the speeds with the class faster.the problem before was just stupid caldari ham spammers, been easily able to outrun ships of classes larger than you and the fact there was just too much overlap between the classes of ships even using afterburners.now, everything is just too slow and sluggish to be practical. especially the interceptors and battleships. maruders are suppost to be faster than t1 bs's also.vote or die tbh."
"1.0"
"voting against.a hac speed fit has no reppers...at 2.7km/s it will be shredded, and a waste of 200m.why are the recons even slower than the hacs? they are a cruiser variant with less armor and less dps. recons should be faster than the hacs, not slower.your post doesn't really make sense."
"recons are force multipliers, there part of a number of tactics that, when used in a specialised gang can ruin an organised rabble, or whole well against a number of different tactics.speed is another one, combining this with strong ewar, strong mid/long ranged weapons, or high damage at any range makes a ship too strong. when a ship is capable of filling separate roles or niches well, it's generally considered as overpowered.as for hac's, the main point is that they don't overlap with ships smaller than it, with snakes, boosters, faction mwd's and gang links, this was too easy previously, now however, i merly want there base mwd speeds approach something more like 2.7-3.5kms with rigs, a speed increase in many cases so it wouldn't be a speed too different from what's found on tq."
"1.0"
"signedhul'ka"
"pattern smells like old socks!also, +1 provided the warrior ii's are about a half km/s slower than proposed. drone ships should have to fit a drone speed mod for the specific purpose of shredding inties, but should be able to hit most anything else without."
"eehhh, agreed more or less, i think warrior, stemming from minmatar design, should be faster than other, definitely fast enough to catch a slower cepter, but not like an all t2 fit one so yeah, agreed.+1"
"+1but lest not forget agility and mass! minmatar ships beign the heaviest is like makign ammar the ones with less power grid."
"this is the second week that a pvp guild has declared war on our smallish mining corp severly hindering our enjoyment of the game and causing me to rethink why im paying 15$ for sitting in some station waiting for the war to end so we dont have to worry about someone ganking our unarmed miners and haulers.pvp is crippling eve and thats why its still so small i allways hear from devs about how suprised they are that the core systems are over crowded like they havent got a clue! im sure someone is going to post if you cant stand the head leave or the other popular one get a combat ship and fight back well i dont want to leave there is no similar game on the market yet and i surly dont want to become a pvper too first off its not how i want to enjoy my time and second its feeding the very disease i want to get rid of.if ccp doesnt fix this soon there gonna be a ghost town when player friendly eve like games go live in a year or so sure they might limp along with 10-20k hardcore pvp players but if you got shareholders your cheating them out of possibly millions in profits by keeping eve a pvp nitch game."
"hahaha ok you got me."
"what a dilema, you don't want to play the game but you do want to play the game,/me is confusedeve isn't a pvp niche game, thousands of pilots happily live without combat each and every day in eve and enjoy the game. learn to protect your assets or hire someone to return the favour.most small corps that get hassled go on to be big corps with teeth. those not willing to adapt and change wither and die.btw, if it was going to be a ghost town it would have happened 4 years ago and i don't remember ccp ever saying i would be able to mine in peace."
"guys how will we farm our isk now fix ur game ccp"
"if you don't like being at war, feel free to retreat to a npc corp. you'll find them refreshingly free of nasty people wanting to pop your hulk."
"sukio,you are a troll which i think you are because you cleverly threw in the term \"guild\". or someone that has not been around long at all. just fyi. this is a pvp non-consensual based game. it has been that way since day one. and players/trolls like yourself has been spouting the \" i am quitting and taking my 9000!!! alts and friends with me.\" and then it grows year after year. what you are asking and proposing would destroy eve and ccp would lose subs so fast it would make your head spin. we would go from a peak of 40k a night back to where we were 4 or 5 years ago of 5 to 8k. you see the growth stems from the fact this game is not like any other, and it is for a certain player group that enjoys this type of game.if you do plan to leave contract your stuff to me. kthx."
"added to the agenda for sunday 3rd."
"adding it to the agenda this sunday just to make sure it doesn't get forgotten. if it passes we'll be able to get specific feedback and prioritize for the fix and future csm's will have a record of our pushing on the issue."
"watching your war target get repped and not being able to shoot the guy makes me want to kick puppies ... and i kinda like puppies even."
"voting support, but i wouldn't necessarily remove dds, just make them into some type of super laser. 500,000 raw damage, 5 or 10 min refire rate, tracking akin to a capital class weapon. make it into some kind of anti capital weapon. for referance, a tanked carrier normally has over 1 million ehp, while a tanked dread has twice that, so this won't be one shotting anything."
"this guy should replace the lavista tard as csm."
"one idea i have heard for balancing the ddd apologies to whoever i stole this from was to make the damage pulsed. keep the total damage the same as it is currently, but apply it in bursts over a minute or so. say 7500 damage every six seconds.this does three things. one, it allows smaller ships a chance to escape while taking only one or two blasts, lag permitting. two, it gives titans more time to be \"caught\" - they have to stay on grid while the effect is ongoing. three, it could be set up so that only one doomsday could be active at a time, removing the \"drop three titans on a fleet and kill everything subcapital instantly\" problem.there would still be the essential titan problem: that the best way to keep your titan alive is to have another one and dd any hictors that are around. but this would remove the \"by the time you've loaded grid and seen the titan, your whole fleet is already dead\" feeling. and to anyone who hasn't encountered that, let me tell you it's quite ****. and titans as defense against roaming gangs is only getting more common."
"supported"
"needs extra customizeable stuff for interior when ambulation hits too"
"titans suck. you are raoming around looking for a fight, there is a nice gang chillin out on a gate in a system that would totally result in pew pew... fc checks to see if they have a titan pilot logged in. they do. in that system.fc: \"ok mates, lets go somewhere else.\"i don't know why they did not forsee this. it's just not fun an happens all the time to every single 0.0 entity in the game. i very much doubt any 0.0 pvper can say that they haven't been in a situation where they avoided an otherwise good fight simply because one side had a titan present.the suck if only for that reason. we play the game for fun fights and titans prevent that."
"solar flares, magnetic storms, dust coulds, and other oddities are not nearly as common nor as signifigant as star trek: voyager would have you believe. there's a reason they call it \"space\", you know."
"and there's a reason no one wrote in to star trek saying...\"gee, you guys sure make outer space look active. could you dress it all down a bit? i mean... i'm a nasa rocket scientist, and i know for a fact that space doesn't have that much going on. you're taking away from the immersion i crave from this otherwise obviously quite factual 24th century setting.it's a show... and this is a game... and games are for entertainment. not for studies on how civilization will look 40,000 years in the future.so get over yourself, and accept the fact that some of us crave more \"spacey\" stuff, more than we need added mechanics to killing each other."
"i can't think of a worse game time sink than taking down or putting up a pos tower. with the high module count on larger alliance front line towers it can take 3 hours or more to put up or take one down. can we get some use out of the skill most tower guys are forced to train to level 5, anchoring? please consider allowing a 5% reduction in anchoring and unanchoring times on pos modules per anchoring skill level.comment on this idea. ready go!"
"confirming that it is indeed a terrible time sink."
"i agree, i put up one small pos once and i'll never anchor anything again for long time."
"excellent idea."
"duplicate thread - see [issue] starbase logistics is needlessly soul-destroying."
"yep."
"duh"
"sounds good to me."
"yes"
"great idea"
"that is definitely a must and hopefully should be easy to add. correct me if i'm wrong but isn't the alliance chat channel lacking in that department as well?"
"very supported"
"added it to the agenda for sunday 3rd. fingers crossed."
"very supported.."
"for the most part the courier system in its current state is broken,, requiring insane amounts of bond for the most trivial cargos.to really make it function your going to have to use some game tricks.since this is not real life game packages are too vulnerable as there is no security or penalties for theft.you must use game mechanics in a less complicated way and here is how you do it....shippers buy cargo boxes by size 1,5,10,100,1000 m3 and postage based on distance, risk and special handling.these boxes are them placed on the postal market for anyone to haulthe trick is that the product doesnt actually exist in the box it only exists at either the origin or the destonation once the box is delivered.this means for the most part the postal service is reliable.sure a pirate can attack and destroy a hauler but all he can do is either collect the boxes and turn them in for the hauling fee or leave them in space till they rot and respawn at the origin this makes the system functonal and infinatly more people will use it.you can also have a bulk shiping service where a shiper has like 1 million ore to haul he sets up a similar postal contract distance, risk, special handling and that fee is devided up per m3 so that many ships can participate in hauling the cargo to the destonation only depending on the ability to haul part or all of the cargo but again the ore isnt actually hauled only a place holder for the ore or it could be zy or noc the hauler never knows and it doesnt make a difference he just hauls the cargo units. even if he logs out the cargo tokens will reset after a period of time untill the order is canceled or the cargo completes the trip to the destonation.some people will say that its not realistic but i say its also not realistic that there is no real security or real penatlies to make transporting goods reliable enough for shipers so either they dont use it or they place huge bonds on trivial shipments which most are booby traps placed their by the shiper to kill haulers for bond farmingi could spend much of my game time contently hauling player cargos around the galaxy but right now thats not possible.people that can afford to drop millions for a bond arnt the ones that want to haul cargos."
"there's a serious flaw in your suggestion. and that's having the boxes be empty until delivery.eve strives for realism when it comes to certain matters. of course, it's a game. and the setting is about 40,000 years in the future. but... when it comes to ways of screwing each other over... they try to keep it legit.so there's no way that you would mail an empty box to family across the country, and then have the actual contents \"magically\" appear upon delivery. either they were in the box the whole time, or someone just opened an empty box.that being said, i agree that the courier system needs several changes.1 players setting outrageous collateral. one possible fix would be allowing collateral to be automatically determined as the contract is made. a \"fair market price\", similar to the amount figured into insurance, could be assessed for all the items. then your packaged bundle has a set amount, which is stamped collateral.2 even if collateral is left to the players, the rewards are vastly out of scale. players charging 500bil collateral, and offering 3.50 isk reward after a 50+ delivery. while most would say \"don't take the contract\", i ask \"why was it allowed in the first place?\" instead... have the reward calculated based on the player's assessed collateral, as well as the distance traveled. if a package is 20mil, and needs to travel 10 jumps through low/null sec, then the reward should be well worth the effort. if the path is all high sec, then it shouldn't be as much a reward given the lack of real risk.3 a completely different alternative could be... taking away player filled contracts entirely. while it would make a lot of haulers mad, as well as ruin some pirates fun when they try and lure you through their gate camps... it would solve the problem. when you buy something off market, then a 10% fee is added. this covers the \"shipping and handling\" for interbus to carry it from wherever it may be, to where you are ordering from. depending on distance, it could take minutes to maybe an hour for delivery. the best part of this approach is... it defuses jita entirely. no longer would you have to brave/add to the lag, when you can get products no matter where they are stored at the time.again... just some ideas i've had about fixing courier contracts as well."
"my original reply got lost during a comms break while posting, but basically this was part of the 'need for speed' stuff as only the 'live' ship is touchable / changeable by the pilot at any time. cf"
"yes please, i don't see how me spamming ships changes while waiting for the session change timer just to change names helps speed."
"i support this"
"we play this game because we love it as it is, dont go removing the bits we enjoy ccp"
"get out"
"make me"
"i'm not sure who authorized you to speak for them, but you don't represent me, or my opinion."
"moderators, please delete this useless thread."
"your in a noob corp, nuff said"
"oh and yea i do represent a majority of eve, considering there is 2 and a half times more votes against the nerf than for it"
"i support the idea behind this messagethe devs are there to solve problems, we need devs to solve problems. but not like this.the nerf sledgehammer can't fix anythingdevs need to learn to use a nerf scalpel"
"redacted. this forum needs less sullying, and more reasoning."
"if you think the people who keep pwning you now are going to stop after the nano-nerf, you are gravely mistaken.it has never been about overpowered ship, just highly skilled experienced players killing the carebear noobs. no amount of nerfing is going to make you a better player"
"overpowerd ships are the reason for the nerf. cruiser sized ships that orbit fast enough to take no damage from their chosen targets. by 'chosen' targets i mean a large list of several class's of ships that were powerless to defend, kill or even escape from them. interceptor speeds and beyond with hac damage res and buffer.. yea, not overpowerd at all. lol"
"because 8-heatsink 'geddons made the game more fun for people who weren't sitting in the pilot's seat?"
"you completely fail to understand how pvp works.it goes like this: lock target -> scramble -> web -> shootyou just forgot the web.i can assure you that if you web your fast orbiting target, it will start taking damage, and it will die if you have better tank and gank.most of the challange in fighting speed tactics is about getting them into web range, either by making your web range longer, by intercepting their orbits, using other people with webs, disabling their mwds with neuts. all about the web.it is pointless to talk about dealing damage before you get web"
"this."
"thats right. you can gank certain stations and get garrented kills from those who attempt to undock. this is a perfectly legal exploit of the game mechanics and ccp will no reimburse ship loses due to this weakness in game play.how does it work? when you undock you get a count where you cannot redock. at these stations you are also spat out at distance from the station. so even if you did survive the first 30 seconds of combat you cannot re-dock anyway as you are now outside docking range. sit outside the undocking point, put a web and scram on any poor bastard undocking from these stations, garrented kill.and unlike jump gates where you get 30 second's of cloak to call for help as well as a random spawn point anywhere in space at 15km's from the gate. stations spit you out in the same place everytime so there is no guess work involved.good luck, good hunting, now go exploit the hell out of these stations.p.s. please fix these stations urgently."
"there's a fairly substantial delay before you can target someone undocking. align and warp, already. i much prefer the ability to force combat than the old method of someone undocking, killing one member of a station camp, dropping aggro, and redocking."
"a i wish all stations were like this. b its spelled guaranteed c no support."
"you're complaining about a tactic that has been in place for over 5 yarrs? oh, sorry, years. i sincerely doubt they the devs are going to do anything about this one. and, i am pretty certain that they shouldn't do anything about it even if they were inclined to.i mean, \"welcome to eve, undocking can be a biatch.\" eve can be a harsh, cruel, and unforgiving mistress. suck it up, get used to it, grow a pair, or get the f out.besides, it's not like there is nothing you can do about this by simply being a better less whinny player. if this bothers you so much, take steps in your own play style to minimize your risk. i.e. go to stations that aren't as \"exploitable\" as the ones you are using now.just because you don't like an element of the game doesn't mean it should be changed.no support."
"this is a nice feature to prevent undock gank tactics like some used to thrive on and it was made this way to decrease the undock problems with certain large stn's like jita 4-4"
"not only that, but it prevents the truly annoying undock/redock teasing. if you wanna play, now you gotta go all the way. no support whatsoever."
"/me points and laughs. no."
"i will say go all or nothing. either every single station spits you out of dock range or non of them do. its really annoying to pick hq sytems based on whether or not they have a kick out station."
"they should all spit you outside of redock range. don't undock unless you're ready to die."
"then they should put some window holes into the stations so you can see outside of it before you undock  this is a really stupid idea "
"press ctrl space as u undock and u slow down like before the patch"
"and then your immediately targetable doesn't help at all especially in lag."
"funny... cuz if that were the case, you wouldn't be hiding and station hugging all the time now would ya... if i had a nickel for every time a sf member used the station to save themselves, i'd be the richest in eve!"
"this would be awesome."
"fairly obviously, 5% to sensor strength per level. you could have one skill or four, depending on preference, but that would be what the \"eccm skill\" would do, just like signature analysis or long-range targeting."
"remove ecm, problem solved.i havent looked at the stats but if signal dist. amp. boosts sensor range, strength, tracking and optimal, they will be the ultimate sniper module. sniper ships might free up 3-4 mids slots with using those"
"and replace it with what?distort amps do not boost anything except ew strength. i'm inferring from your comment that you don't really know much about ew. you can start here."
"not supported, by complicating mining you dont really make it more fun... atm micromanaging cargo capacity is 'fun' enough....also about finding mercoxit in 0.1 or something like that, really not supported. its 0.0 ore, go to 0.0 tho some really rare occasions are rather funny, like crokite in 0.6"
"yes !"
"i know it's a 0.0 ore, hence why i said it would be an extremely rare find in exploration sites outside 0.0 i'm not talking about finding fields of best quality mercoxit in low sec, maybe 1 basic quality, low content asteroid in 10,000 other asteroids.remember, you may have found the asteroid, but you're still going to need a ship fitted for mercoxit mining and the skills to extract it safely. and nobody's going to be keeping a ship like that on standby for such a ridiculously rare find, unless they happened to be a dedicated specialist miner with existing access to 0.0however, once you find the asteroid field, there's nothing stopping you from selling the location to someone who does have the ship and skills to mine that if you don't, same as any other prospector/explorer."
"op took the words right out of my mouth!"
"i agree. this post is now about boobies!!!!"
"strongly disagree"
"what the heck? go support my topic instead"
"this one makes more sense did not read your topic."
"they say brevity is the soul of wit."
"nano death."
"allright, noone cares about mallers."
"if maller got a 25m3 drone bay it would be just about right imo."
"should be renamed mauler. needs to be re-skinned in bear hide."
"bait?"
"anti-ceptor + baittank?you havent seen the old duramaller's of old have you?"
"been there, seen them - however noone uses them now.sure, you could say that because it gets some more armor- however everyone would know about it if something this unique was implemented. that extra armor is just some more buffer, it still won't reach close to the ehp of your standard buffergankgeddeon. you could as well as \"bait\" with a passivefit drake."
"a ship specifically to use an exploit? lol."
"bumping is'nt an exploit. it's perfectly i'm not so incredibly stupid **** i can only f1-8 or play wow."
"it's a t1 cruiser. what do you expect? why don't you use it for... um... y'know... shooting things? that's a proper role right there.have you compared it to the moa, thorax and rupture? seems roughly even to me.oh man, i'm gonna get flamed so hard for this post, aren't i?"
"aww come one, just look at the popularity of the ship in question. it's as popular as reinforced bulkheads did you even know that there ever was a module called reinforced bulkhead untill now?"
"it's basically just a laser boat with a reasonable tank, like a scaled down apocalypse. its bonus to laser cap usage implies to me, at least that its intention was simple shooting. it's not elegant by any means but it works reasonably well on lower level 2 and 3 missions.i object that you would say i didn't know about reinforced bulkheads. i did know about them, i just chose to ignore them."
"you just explained it even better than me. people did know about the maller, they just choose to ignore it."
"pro: the proposed changes on sisi seem over the top.con: \"vote of no confidence in the management of the dev team?\" at least as over the top as the changes on sisi.* wanders off, looking for the thumbs down - option... *"
"there used to be places to explore. places that were not overrun by others where the sound of the solar wind is all that could be heard.now, you cant swing a stick normally without hitting another player.and while i understand the \"fostering of a pvp enviroment\" i think you are taking it a bit far.kinda strange we have exploration yet you are hardly ever more then 5 jumps from another player.where is the unknown?where is the room for growth?i am not saying make another region full of new stuff that has never been seen before.i am saying you could plant 100-500 more systems with the same old stuff in them around the universe and we would be a better game for it.as it stands now it feels like a giant ant farm.how about a little room to move there devs?35k online is crowded no matter what you say. 150+ capital class ships moving from system to system means its crowded and we need something to shake it up.nothing spectacular.add that \"new\" and \"unknown\" stuff on the fly and dont tell anyone you added it.but really, it would make the universe so much more then the goldfish bowl it is becoming now.edit - and csm, i remember one of you saying that ccp asked you to think big.guess what...adding 500+ new system and not telling anyone what the hell is in there is just that.and it gives you a reason to actually have a mobile station/ship thingy.as it stands now you dont have a big enough bowl for the whale you are trying to get put in game.so you get something and the community gets something.everyone is happy."
"low sec used to be empty before fw, i'll give you that that may be crowded now. but while the majority of 0.0 is claimed, it is also mostly empty save for alliance hubs. go there and explore wouldn't be opposed to more exploration sites though.if you're argument is that you will get killed by the locals, think what would happen if you added more systems. there would be a rush of entities to claim the space. while in theory the idea of empty space is refreshing, you must realize that it will soon be filled up naturally by arbitrage."
"i would recommend a cataclysmic event that would wipe out everything say, in a number of regions of 0.0, and watch the fireworks with the power vacuum.the natural world had a few ice ages. maybe its time for new eden to have one."
"sure, it would be called make a new server. but that's against the entire philosophy of eve."
"a few regions is hardly a new server. coming from a goon, however, i understand your fear of this thought. i think you meant to say\"but that's against the entire philosophy of goonswarm\"..."
"i like the idea of exploring uncharted space, it would open up a whole new branch of occupations in the game, and it has been described in this thread in alot of detail:linkage"
"the eve population is heavily centered in a handful of systems, leaving the great majority of them nearly empty."
"sorry for the misunderstanding. 'new server' was in reference to your cataclysmic event idea, not to the addition to regions.i still stand by my original post that they wouldn't be empty for very long."
"honestly, i can't see as how more star systems is ever a bad idea. and, just as frankly, ccp has not let the number of star systems grow with the populace of the game at all.in sharded games, populace expansion can simply be handled by more shards. but, since sharding is against very basic concepts in eve, the only other answer is to give an increasing player base more room to play in. this, ccp has simply failed to do. and, i think is one of the major reasons that you have seen the game populace decrease since the heady days of 50k+ records being broke on the server every couple of weeks. after all, when was the last time you saw another concurrent user record set? it's been a while, hasn't it? i support this topic and all of its ideas. the only thing i would add is that you're missing a zero on the end of the number of systems i would like to see added. yep, my wish is for closer to 5000. by my guess this is what is needed at this point and to allow for a little future growth. no, i am not joking. and yes, i think this is very possible with ccp's current resources.one thing i will admit to is that i am and old exploration junkie from all the way back in beta. i can fondly remember my old record, set in early 2004, when i took a cruise through low-sec and no-sec. i went 54 jumps, without repeating a single system, and didn't see another soul in local the entire trip. try that now days.....i miss those days, and fear they are gone forever. but, what the heck. i'll give the op a thumbs up anyway.cheers."
"@izthat is a great stance for pr, but not at all practical.if 1 ship does too little damage, you buff that 1 ship.if 1 ship does too much damage, you nerf that 1 ship.the alternative would be, buff every ship except that 1 ship, to bring them up to that s"
"agreed. game mechanics should always be prioritized over ship buffs/nerfs.however:would you classify altering the roles of caps and supercaps as ship balance or a game mechanic change? this is to anybody"
"@lavistacsm can think of themselves as the first real house of representatives of eve, the first real oog political organization that effects the whole of eve.csm may have a lot of large issues at the moment, just like any new nation has to deal with.but "
"while we definately should not get bogged down by every 'nerf x' and 'buff y' threads, there may be occasions where a specific ship really does need discussing. we should be very careful about this, but i wont simply refuse to look at ship/module balance issues."
"i have noticed way too many threads popping up in here the last few weeks, that really should be in features and ideas.not here."
"all the pirate frigs and cruisers need some love. but especially my beloved dramiel and cynabal."
"aye"
"disearves a nod. support."
"this might be an interesting feature to implement in the future, but there are more pressing immediate concerns than new features.the issue of massive lag in large fleet engagements has and still is being neglected in favor of making more and more shiny new toys for people to use to keep them playing and paying for the game instead of fixing the core issues that would ultimately make the game much more enjoyable."
"i specifically like this as an anti-capital tactic for smaller ships, though the server performance and ui issues are valid points raised. someone mentioned having a sub-system targetter module. combining this with scripts low/mid/high slot script, or maybe specific module/types scripts can determine what you will be targetting. why a script? because the eve ui is terrible, and menu's will be too unwieldy during combat."
"why? what problem is this fixing?"
"while i would love to see this as an ecm pilot, it would be significantly overpowered. ecm is quite powerful enough as it is."
"that's a dangerous stance to take, coming from a point of view which would likely make you even more unpopular than we are.the point i'm making is this - in our three months, we've received 19 declarations of war, from mission runners and mercenaries alike. with the change you are supporting, there has already been an overwhelming number of players who said they would start actively salvaging if it gave them aggro, which would increase the number of this activity ten-fold.this means there would be a rise in the number of mission runners who do not wish the change, and an rise in the number of those looking to who was responsible. not necessarily a place i'd be too quick to jump into.of course, as i bill myself and my corporation as the 'best of the best' when it comes to ninja salvaging, perhaps that is a paradox in and of itself.i definitely respect the post, as i do with anyone who posts with thought, rather than emotion. it takes a lot to post with thought instead of the canned, \"no u!\" responses we usually get.i look at it from this point of view - there's loot and then there's salvage. i believe the reason why there's two separate types of 'drops' are because of the desire to keep the actions and aggro rules separate as well. otherwise, a jetcan would be full of a mix of items and salvage, or the act of salvaging would drop salvage which was worth significantly more.personally, i lean towards the fact that ccp made salvage worth so little just to satiate a tiny niche, and that they're probably surprised at how popular this niche has become.in the end, i respect your point of view, however, i believe that making the change would be disadvantageous to both sides.both ninja salvagers and mission runners would need to adapt, but in the end, i believe that mission runners would be affected negatively to a greater extent. that's where i believe the 'balance' issue would cause greater irritation."
"oh, i'm quite used to that. i should probably call it a lifestyle...that is one possible outcome, but i don't think so. the reason i don't think so is that the aggro is already there if you want it. just pick up some missiles, or some ammo or whatever when salvaging. dotard has mentioned in a number of threads that he does exactly this on purpose which i happen to think is cool actually.because the option is already there, and simplicity itself to enact, i doubt the change would would create much difference in participation levels.i could, of course, be entirely wrong. people are weird things. but the logic does flow that if the option is there and not being used then making that option automatic won't entice folks who weren't bothering to use it anyway.i'd not be alone and i've had worse, to be honest. not something i'm worried at all about.oh i get emotional sometimes too but i prefer rational discourse. no one who knows me will question that i have a temper. there are times, particularly on the internet, however, when some 'discussions' become not worth the time or effort any longer. i don't like those. thank you for being civil. i'm totally cool with agreeing to disagree - that's a good thing. but it should be done with rationality and respect.i expect you're right although i think it has more to do with a number of other balancing factors entirely. apparently at one point mission loot and pay was much higher but was lowered. salvage does not seem to have been and that, perhaps, is the issue. i wouldn't be bothered by the concept of ninja salvage were the salvage not such a high percentage of the actual take. in a pair of l1s i recently ran to build up standings i couldn't get a better agent despite the t2 vs l1 overkill the salvage value was 14 times the combined loot value and mission pay. honestly, i did the math. fourteen times. now, it's nothing like that good for l4s, but still, one can see where one might think that a bit broken that the cheapo stuff is protected but the really good crap is up for grabs...*nod* i understand. i suspect that i feel that the 'negative' impact you predict i would see as positive. i have mostly given up mission running. i'm good at it in fact very good at it given my low level of sps but it's boring. a little aggro would spice it up."
"that's one of the reasons i hired him. that, and the fact that he has an outpouring of personality, which is sometimes hard to find online.i'll give you that, mission running is boring. i tried it, and haven't gotten past the first level, due to the fact that i quit to pursue other endeavours. as i'd mentioned here or in another very similar thread, if i wanted to play against the computer, i probably wouldn't be playing eve. there's a lot in eve that has to be improved for me to ever want to play against the machine, and not want to play against the person."
"i support this thread and there needs to be a serious discussion on the topic. replies like the one above are what got this idea thrown out with no real thought offered.nobody is asking for a ship that can locate and run a 10/10 solo. what we are asking for is the ability to explore out a site, and then complete at least the moderately difficult ones. its ridiculous to go 15 jumps, finally find a site, and then have to track back 15 jumps, get my ship, jump back 15 jumps, run the site, go back 15 jumps get my covops and start again. its not being lazy anymore than having jump capable ships makes those players lazy. and no, i'm not asking for the exploration ship to be jump capable, just making a time waste comparison."
"i'll admit i'm not too knowledgeable on the topic, so my question is - why are marauders currently unable to perform this task? is it the lack of bonuses? cpu/grid to fit scanners? from what i see, you can fit scan probe launcher, full rack of weapons, and a decent tank on all of these."
"scan time is part of it, a ship without the bonus means fewer scans per probe, which means many more probes in the cargo hold. also, i'm trying to eft a golem and i'm having a lot of cpu problems with the launcher, at least one hacking or analyzer and any kind of reasonable fitting.another popular ship currently is the pilgrim, though that too is about as awkward as a middle school dance.in essence, this is sort of like the days when people mined with battleships. yes, it worked. it could have been left like that even though it always felt wrong. thankfully we got barges and then exhumers.same principle here. yeah, we can get by either ganging up, or making a lot of jumps back and forth but its a ship role begging for a dedicated class. i know that exploring isn't the most popular area of the game, but it is really fun for the few who pour ourselves into it. and i felt more than a little slighted by how casually our concerns were dismissed as being lazy."
"agreed.looking at the other \"things to do\" in eve, mining for example, does also require to move several ships somewhere, but you havn't emptied a new system for asteroids in a couple of hours like when an exploration \"guy\" finds a useless site and will have to move on.. the difficuly of getting to a site is challenging enough allready -> you'll have to find a site and scan it down b4 you can get to it. others might beat you to it, and the site doesn't even have to be that interesting.. you can have scanned for hours finding nothing of interest. the moving of additional ships is just ruining the fun."
"has anyone noticed that the answer to many things in eve is \"get an alt account\"?honestly, if it takes two subscriptions to play the game right then eve is more broke then i thought."
"interesting how a suggestion of exploring with a combat-ready partner is taken as an accusation of being lazy!my point is that exploration, especially for the moderate to difficult sites, is ideally suited to two players working together.there are ships currently available to use if you want to solo the easy and moderate sites. you do have to wait a little longer for the probes to scan, and so it takes longer to track down the sites.with that said, i fail to see your point? there already are exploration ships, and combat ships that can be used for exploration; you choose to either solo and ship swap, or solo and wait a little longer to track down sites- or you do it with a partner.invaribly, i expect players want the ability to cloak and warp,scan quickly to track down sites, and then take care of rats and collect the loot at the site.noone said it should be easy to earn a living....there are plenty of other games where it is...arithron"
"maybe i'm just not understanding you're position, so can you help me here? when you say you run with a combat ready partner, what does he do for the hours you spend scanning down the site? you at least are running the probes and the scans, but i can't see anything he has to do. does he wander off and rat? how do you manage that in low security space? or do you operate deep in some alliances territory? let me restart with some premises, because i think that will help this discussion.premise:1. solo exploration should be a viable profession2. current ships and setups are wildly inefficient for low sec and 0.0 solo exploration3. a dedicated ship class for exploration wouldn't be any more unbalancing than a dedicated ship class for mining wasconclusion:1. there exists a niche for a dedicated exploration vessel, one which currently is not adequately filled.also, nobody is saying it should be 'easy' the only difference between current mechanics and what this proposal asks for is that you won't have to be jumping around all the time and swapping ships. so unless you consider timesinks 'hard' or the act of swapping ships 'hard' and not just really really annoying, then i fail to see your point with the 'easy living' argument. sounds like a straw man to me."
"my partner, when i am scanning, hunts rats in the belts of the system we are in and surrounding systems. since i run a covert ops cloaker, and he doesn't, its good for him to move about.give me an idea how many players you think explore as a profession? i suspect they do it along with mission running, ratting etc. i can't see the justification for the time/discussion for the csm when they are supposed to be dealing with larger issues that affect the majority of eve players.a ship that you are proposing would not just be exploration specific. it would quickly start to be used for many other roles, especially given its combat capabilities and cloaking...by all means, post your ideas in the ideas and features forum that is provided for future possible implementations.arithron"
"well i can see the justification for the time/discussion, so i guess we're even.and what larger issues should they instead deal with? looking over their agendas, i see a few major issues, that's good. but i see an awful lot of small issues too. further, they should at least have a real discussion on the issue. when this first came up, it was brushed off with a 'lol, u noobs r teh laziest!'. if they came up with a real discussion and consequently decided not to forward the issue, or to remand it to the ideas and forums section, so be it. but to blow off the idea with no real discussion? that is a problem with them not seeing a style of game play, and is a real issue of concern.further, since i don't believe they will be inclined to discuss anything that doesn't involve direct pvp, why don't we discuss it for them? what exactly is your problem with a ship of this type? i've laid out an area this ship could fill nicely, now i'd like to hear exactly why you think this type of ship would be a bad idea. properly balanced, is there any combat ship this would replace? do you fear it would take the place of recons? ok, make it only a scan probe time bonus. battlecruisers/hacs? those ships are combat orientated, so as long as this ship doesn't do the damage they do, it should be ok. black ops ships? does anybody actually fly these?i'm just curious. you seem very against this idea and against it receiving any fair discussion and i'd like to know why. thanks!"
"we are having fair discussion ;i'd be happy for exploration to be shown more love, but i don't think that you could have a balanced exploration ship that is any better than the ones currently used for exploration.i'll make a quick list of needs for an exploration ship firstly:1. an exploration ship would require the ability to cloak and stay cloaked whilst moving, since you'd be exploring low sec systems etc. thus, you'd need a ship with the ability to fit covert ops cloakers ideally.2. the ship would also need to be able to carry scan probes, fit a launcher and then still have room for the loot from site rats/containers etc. thus,a decent sized cargo hold.3. you'd need some bonus to scan times, although admittedly you could make players do this via skills and rigs. therefore, you'd need some good rig space.4. the ship would need to do pretty good dps to deal with site rats, and the ability to soak damage. since you'd be wanting race specific ships ?, then some would have high sheilds, others high armour or the low and mid slots, plus cpu/grid/cap, available to fit modules.5. since some explorers would prefer to keep slots free for the various bits and pieces every good explorer needs, a drone bay might be in order.these would be just the basic requirements as i see it. i'd imagine you'd need at least 5-7 high slots, given that some would be occupied with probe launcher etc. this would allow you to dish out a decent amount of dps if flying solo. you'd need a few mid and low slots also.now, given all this, we have a ship that is pretty good at combat, and can cloak and warp. on top of that, it has a decent cargo bay and maybe a drone bay, plus can probe things out pretty fast. can you see this ship be utilised elsewhere?? i certainly can, and i don't believe you can balance it so that it is good for exploration alone.currently, the only real thing that prevents explorers using a raft of combat ships for exploration is the fact that the covert ops cloaker can't be fitted to them. this is the decision you make - scan relatively safely, but require a ship swap or partner, or , scan a little more in the open and take longer doing it, but be able to collect on sites once probed out.i think this is fair to other players who don't explore and earn iskies in other ways. for instance, miners don't have the luxury of cloaking and have to accept the risks when mining low sec and have to haul their ore akin to ship swapping.i just don't think you can have your cake and eat it too. remember i also explore, and don't think explorers are lazy. i just see a bigger picture outside exploration... arithron"
"yeah, we are having a good discussion, i just wish the csm had done the same.now, i have an idea, and not to derail our thread too much, but what about this to solve our problem. make it a true science vessel. so, it won't be able to run combat plexes, but it could still warp cloaked and fit analyzers/code breakers/gas harvesters. give it a good tank i'd suggest making it a soe faction ship, but thats just me probably shields but whatever. but now here is the change, make it so that it can hack/analyze cans that still have rats guarding them.give it three highs: a cloak, a probulator, and a salvager.anyway, i'm no ship balance specialist. but i think something workable could be created in this field. mostly, i would have liked the csm to at least examine the issue and maybe make the suggestion that ccp look into its creation for this particular play style. i firmly believe that with the right parameters, such a ship could be created that isn't unbalancing to the game and would fulfill a valuable and needed role.this issue deserves a second look."
"well, there could be an arguement for making the tools that explorers use able to be used when cloaked eg, analysers. this would circumvent the need for an exploration ship altogether.however, is this giving one set of players a large advantage over others who earn their iskies in other ways? arithron"
"maybe, but i don't think its any bigger than what marauders did for people who mission over people who mission in ravens.again though, i'd like to go back to the root of the issue.if you and i were not in charge of balancing this ship, if we left the design of bonuses and abilities up to ccp; is there a need for this ship?i still contend that, bonused and balanced by the experts, this ship would fulfill a valuable role in the eve universe. let me put it another way. if we could mix and match ship parts, my character would have already chop shopped a couple ships and made a dedicated exploratory vessel.also, not to nerd too far out on you, but what would starfleet look like without science vessels? babylon 5 without their explorer vessels? starcraft without the science vessel? god, the first time i saw that exploratory vessel on bab5, i wanted to fly one.this is the only mmo on the market where exploration means anything, where going to places that don't just appear on an overview or map saying 'go here for gold/items/minerals' means you get something special, where it actually does take skill to make discoveries. that is a unique and wonderful feature of this game, one that has gotten me to come back time and again when other games scripted content got too predictable.i understand the soldiers of the universe have little use for scientists & explorers, but we would like to participate in the universe too"
"... i demand my right to be a \"redneck\".if you can't handle the text on screen use block button. i think it should be clear for anyone playing eve that there's bad words and bad people or whatsoever stuff not fit in \"your rightful ethics tm\" around there. people should not be forced to watch their every word in fear of banning or whatsoever.inappropriate comment removed. navigator"
"this idea wouldnt really increase lag.it would however increase the size of the database, but textures/images are all client side. it would only call on the server for which image to display which it does anyway with your own player name for example.corp logo would be cool on your own ships, but i wouldnt waste isk for a nicer looking ship, might as well put underglow on it ;"
"* capital ship's ship maintenance bay revisited* another tranche of ui issues and improvements various threads* autopilot options in the light of fwiz"
"updated with bane and inanna's issues."
"was the day most of us could make on a regular basis and we generally announce the next meeting at the end of the previous one. just to remind you we agreed we'd have 2 bi weekly meetings prior to the end of august/beginning of sept csm/ccp formal discussion, this one on 3rd of august, and another on 17th of august when we'll be submitting issues to ccp."
"function at a loss'?haha my friend i know not everyone understands the economics of such things, but being familiar with the economics of running a development studio and specifically how an recurring charge implementation pans out in dollars and cents, your post is very funny.ccp is in no way shape or form hurting on eve online. based on time involved to create the original product times average number of coders to do it in that time times the average going rate for a game developer, eve would have broken even for say, the first year. and made approximately 60% profit every month since then. if they are true efficiency experts, it could be closer to 80. but its well above 50% unless they are truly bad at the business side of things. granted, some studios are.what is happening here is simple: some analyst/bean counter has told them enough times that they can get more per month, and get away with it. it's that simple. why sell it at $15/mo when you can charge $20? the answer in morals is because it's wrong to charge $20 when you are doing well off at $15. the answer in businessnot a rule but often times is do it. there is a reason why no software developer of any quality has stayed on top for long. eventually they become too disconnected from their users, and make their one big mistake because of that.welcome to ccp's one big mistake."
"honestly, i don't think it's a mistake. for people paying for the game with real money, it's still $15 a month. you can buy a month then suspend payment, essentially buying a 30 day code.for people who buy their codes using isk, those prices will change a little, but ccp doesn't care too much b/c it's space currency.the people who are hit hardest here are those who sell codes for isk. they are forced to make larger purchases at once and don't get as good a deal. this probably hurts rmt as well. imo, this is a good thing."
"well as for gtc's, look in the forums for it. money/isk ratio isn't being hurt at the moment, in fact the gtc dealer is actually making abit more atm.$40 90 day was going for about 350m isk.now $35 60 day is going for about 350m isk.to make it clear, my point was this: this is a preface to raising the monthly fee. which is where my issue lies. $15 is a premium price already for what is being delivered, but it is acceptable. when you start to raise that price, it becomes too much in your favor and too little in mine; it loses it's value. if the monthly rate is not being raised, i have no problem. $15 a month is the proper value, and that's what it's about: what is something worth. i am not one of those peoplethere are too many of them, screwing it up for all of the rest of us who will pay whatever something costs, if they really want it. no, for me, the price has to make sense. and, in cases where i am aware of the cost of making such a thing, the amount of profit made off my purchase, needs to make sense. it is relatively easy to look at what it takes to make something and come to a reasonable idea of how much it cost to make it. from there you can reason out a reasonable price.i hope that clears up my beef in the previous post. hence my references of $15/mo becoming $20. because the increase in gtc price/time ratio leads you in the reasonable direction that the monthly subscription price increase is coming next."
"afs need no ewar capabilities. this not the rule of this class. its better to give them more offensive capabilities like agility and speed."
"i have found that my ishkur can solo the l3s i normally fly in my myrmidon.i have not had this level of success with a t1 cruiser other than a very specialized range-tank drone boat/sniper ship and they can be hard to use.at least in pve and fitted correctly, they are functionally equivalent to a battlecruiser and are cheaper although their insurance is horrible and they require significantly more skills to fly.pvp is probably another animal entirely though."
"they are probably more interested in discussing game issues than discussing how one could marginally improve the efficiency of discussing game issues."
"you can find it in my original csm thread."
"the third right of players participating in the eve community.influence on how society is legislatedfinally, individuals have the right to influence how society is legislated. until now, this right has not been fully accessible. the goal of ccp is to provide eve s individuals with societal governance rights. in similar fashion to a real-world democracy models, candidates will be selected by fellow peers to be the voice of their interests to the legislator. once elected, the responsibility of these representatives will be to uphold the societys views as best they can via direct contact and dialogue with ccp. central to this concept is the idea that increasing the utility of eve s society will encourage more individuals to join it.say that the next time ccp tells you that you to worry about bigger things. the csm is to address our concerns and if a large chunk of players want a fix the color of the sun in jita then thats what we want and ccp can either tell us why they won't do it or make the change but lashing out at the community and the csm is the equivalent of cutting your wings off when your trying to learn to fly.voter communication with the csma dedicated electronic forum will be provided for voters to formally present issues to csm r epresentatives. because this is a gathering place where topics deemed important to society are heard and acted upon by democratically elected representatives, moderators must be present to keep discussions civilized, ordered, relevant, and lawful1. these measures are necessary here, as they are in real society, to keep the unruly from disrupting any civil institution ranging from courts of law to the halls of legislative government bodies.again, the csm.pdf doesn't define what we as a society and you as a representative can't do, only that you are to listen and act upon topics deemed important by the society.i by no means agree with all the topics but ship balancing is just as valid of a concern as anything else. if ccp doesn't like our concerns then they can disband the csm and raise a big white flag saying \"we don't give two ****'s about what this community thinks\".as far as i am concerned the csm is working as intended aside from the clashing of e-ego's that goes on at times.my growing concern is with the idea being pushed that the csm is supposed to be responsible for developing a \"vision\" for the future of eve. i see nothing in the csm documentation that says the csm is an integral part of the eve development team and as such is responsible for developing the future of eve. i would really like some clarification on this issue and if the csm that keeps pushing this fails to accept a role as a representative instead of a visionary then i am going to be posting support for removing that csm from office for failure to understand and fulfill the roles and duties of an elected representative."
"focusing on the vocal minorities individual pet desires for changes to their favorite ships is a distraction and is stupid. it doesn't matter how many words you wrap around it. you're more than welcome to discuss items but i have and will continue to vote and argue against any single ship buff/nerf that is presented to the council unless someone can convince me there's a damn good reason we're wasting our time on it.i get it. some of you think your voices aren't being heard. that's what the guy who thinks his ship should be better would say. he would be wrong though. his voice was heard his idea was just not in line with what should be the priorities. if you want your ship buff voted on get support for it and it can't be ignored... simple as that. we've actually been direction to try and deal with grander issues. well, at least had it requested as we can certainly ignore that. i however agree and stated so before i was elected. i'll be looking forward to your post explaining how i'm not fulfilling my duties and demanding my removal."
"/signed"
"i quite agree that the small crap that has been around for ages is something that niggles a lot of us and should be brought up initially but it is my hope that the amount of stuff in that area will rapidly reduce over time ...iz"
"no problem at all with submitting all the ship balancing issues in a general \"response only\" category. the main reason for these topics was to flag up an issue for the devs to look at and i agree there isn't a huge need to debate each individual balance issue in formal csm/ccp meeting time. as for why i haven't replied publicly before this lavista i'm pretty sure we did come to a consensus to do this at one of the previous meetings. anyway agreed."
"what if tracking disruptors also had some effect on ships that launched missiles or drones? say tds make it harder for the parent ship to accurately relay the target's exact location to its drones and missiles, perhaps the optimal disruption script causes a reduction in drone/missile velocity, while the tracking script gives a larger missile explosion radius and drone signature resolution."
"/signed"
"god i hope this happends."
"didnt read all the specifics but its a simple yet good idea"
"what this brilliant man has said."
"and of course, i agree as well."
"adapt or die you ****tards"
"while i support a nerf of polycarbs, snakes and a stacking penalty on all speed mods i oppose everything else being implemented. if some minor tweaks don't solve the problem revisit it a couple months down the road."
"cpp putting their pistol in their mouth again.make the right choice."
"i disagree with the nerf."
"swg"
"truth!"
"/signed"
"i say the nano nerf should not happpen. it's only planned because people complain about how nano ships are overpowered. after all, that is bull. they are not overpowered, people just cant adapt to how people fit their ships. ok - if you spend a billion isk on faction fitting of a nano ship and all your skills are maxed to 5, and you have a gang with perfect nano bonuses, then you are nearly untouchable. but i think in that case you deserve to live anyways. webs exist in the game for a reason. this also means the web nerf would not work. the nerf needs to be revised./signed"
"this. get to it people. give the devs in game examples of why all of these changes are a bad thing or they are going to blatently ignore popular demand like always. i, for one, am doing my part, have you done yours gentle reader?"
"against the nerf!!!i was right, once they did the testing on sisi they needed to nerf missiles again cus people whined, and probably going to look at ecm and neuts again. when is it going to stop???? oh no i died pls make pvp damage 1/5 of pve damage like wow!!!enough is enough!!"
"think before you act ccp, nerfing nano should be done extremely carefully, one thing at a time. your proposing to much to fast, as many ppl have said already do one or 2 changes, see how it goes, and proceed from there. and seriously, 5 hours? 5 whole hours you thought about this and you release that blog? dont they see the rammifications of even the slightest nerf to nano? pull your heads out of your asses and look around. **** im not even against a nano nerf, having bs's fly around at 4-5km/s is ludicurous but you need not destroy nano'ing as a tactic because some people have found a loophole in a system you designed. your system needs some fine tunning, maybe having mass reduction work on an exponential scale, meaning the heavier the ship is, it is exponentially harder to make is go faster by reducing its mass, thats just my opinion"
"quite possibly the worst set of proposed changes i have ever seen from ccp."
"no nerf!"
"against"
"no to nano nerf"
"i agree with you. i love you. against o7 o7 o7"
"qft"
"we dont need that kind of nerfs. /signed"
"as much as i support this topic ccp will just do whatever they want so it is really not that worth while."
"definitively against!"
"just,don't."
"just to annoy my corp members. i really dont want to go back to bs being the only cost effective ships to pvp in again, but i can i guess.edit: and if the changes are reverted i say keep the scram changes to effect mwd just for more strategy and give gal recons a bit of a side boost."
"until i see some credible evidence that 'guerilla warfare remains viable' i vote against this nerf. right now it looks like the only viable option is to bring a bigger blob if you want to take on an established 0.0 alliance in their own territory. anything else is simply going to die to the blob that gets jump-bridged in behind them after a few minutes of roaming. by all means rebalance polycarbons and snakes, but the changes currently on sisi will just push eve further towards being all about big fat boring lagged-out blobs."
"support for this i like killing paper tigers"
"if the nano nerf goes through the future of pvp in eve is tank and spank. **** that."
"heavy handed balancing. try things a little at a time."
"supporting this thread against the nanonerf."
"against"
"screw the \"for nerf\" crew."
"against"
"against"
"this"
"doubt this'll do much but it's worth a shot"
"i agree i doubt ccp will listen to the masses, but worth a try"
"speed needs a nerf - this isnt it"
"against... leave my ceptors alone"
"/against.this is just a cheap & easy way to nerf the nanoships./edit: i really dislike nanoships and everything they stand for. but thisis still not the correct way to solve this issue."
"signed"
"against"
"i have died to many nanos in the past. but i respected them like hell everytime."
"after 2 years in eve, and not a nano'er... i'm finally ready to stop subscribing for anymore pointless training"
"interested to hear your experience on this?in the tests i have been invloved with the nano-gangs could still pretty much disengage with impunity if they so wished, but had less of an advantage if they decided to engage.i think there is still some room for tweaking things, but actually things seem to mesh together better than you would think from reading the devblog."
"this is the single best idea that i've ever heard. the dual training mode is also a good idea as long as you can choose to train your skills this way and choose not to when you feel like it. these changes would realy upgrade the game's quality."
"yup i agree, the dual train allows you to train a skill and another skill, both at half time, calculate when it will end, no big deal if it ends when you cannot log in, as the next skill will simply take over. this will work best with long skills, but the dual train i foresee falls short for short skills. if you are going to work for 8 hours and set 2 skills that, while in dual mode, only take 3 hours the one being a normal 1.5hours then the other, when the 1.5 is done only takes 2 hours after that. but then again, just pick a longer skill; i guarantee you have skills that need upping to 5 if you are that new and i have skills that will take days right now :ponly other option i see is the 2 skill queue, but there *might* need to be some sort of way to stop stacking the 2 skills. one idea is forcing the second skill to complete before you can set up another skill set of 2 to train and queue. but then, idk, you'd still have to worry about being on when the second one got done training :p just a theory/suggestion with flaws :d"
"most folks are cheesed off at the draftsman line, but i'm one of the sods who grabbed a full set of consul implants. let's fix 'em all!"
"i am 50/50 with this idea, 50% for i am for this idea in the stopping research point gain as yes, it is farming isk in a way as it is gaining isk from no work in game just like the macro miners we all know and hate so this would be a good thing to stop as the account is deactivated, however,50% againsti am against not allowing the player to finish a skill training while ofline, as it is a single skill that is training and as soon as tht is over, it does stop and no more training is done, it is not gaining any isk in game and only affecting one particuler area of the game of witch that skill is relevent for unlike rp witch is giving an overall gain in the money dept."
"i'm generally against this idea. the main reason i oppose it is because at several points i had to take extended leaves from eve to deal with rl situations - moving overseas for instance. i did happen to train caldari battleship v in that time, and it frankly made me quite tickled to come back and find a skill trained that i likely would not have bothered to train had i kept playing throughout that period. it's a positive that added to my enjoyment of the game and in no way was detrimental to another's enjoyment of the game. in other mmo's, which largely require xp grinds of various sorts, taking several months off generally pushes you significantly behind your friends, guildies, etc. it is precisely because this is not the case in eve that i have ended up paying for more months on my subscription that i have in any other mmo aside, perhaps, from eq1."
"one account expired thursday. 2 more to go. ccp: please fix this mistake asap."
"i've read the dev blog, and although i'm not entirely for all of what's said there, i like the most of the stuff mentioned. i don't like the idea of mwds being added a reactivation delay, for example. here's the main reason i'm for the nano nerf:the easiest way for a new player to accumulate a reasonable amount of isk is to do agent missions. from my rich experience in that area i can tell that even the hardest of lvl4 missions can be completed relatively easy with your ship tanked properly and with little or no movement at all. i can finish any lvl4 mission alone in my raven with this tactics. i'm not saying that this is what should be mainly used in pvp and that the players with no pvp experience shouldn't adapt. i'm just saying, give these players a chance to adapt by at least balancing the ships speeds and you'll see much more fights out there. after all, ship classes should regain their meaning."
"bye bye speedy mcspeedy"
"support!"
"supported"
"support!"
"aye!"
"nerf it"
"holy yes yes! best thing that hit eve in the period of 1year that ive been playing"
"rofl. i guess all players know everything there is to know about pvp after 1 year. hell, might as well say you know everything about pvp and how things should be nerfed after to weeks. in that case, nerf battleships, my frigate couldn't break it's tank."
"go go gadget"
"i give support to this."
"supporting rebalancing is supported"
"nerf them"
"go nanonerf!"
"swiss army knife \"do everything\" ships are the result of the nano plague.each ship should have a role of its own. t1, t2 and all sizes, classes and should be able to do that role well and effectively.the speed balancing enactment is a good step in the right direction."
"i have to vote for this change. it balances the ships in relation to eachother and makes it meaningful to fly small ships again. it also makes fighting inside web range possible."
"100% support this.speed should be one tactic, not the only tactic. this is coming from someone with over 400 solo kills in a vagabond."
"i'm in support of the changes!"
"vote for more diversity."
"needs to happen."
"voting for the nerf."
"not 100% sure that the current planned changes are not over done, but 100% sure that speed/nano's need to be reigned in somehow."
"."
"support"
"yes nerf nano = op proff... the amount of people using it"
"nerf nano and make pvp interesting again."
"/signed.i'm all for the nanonerf, but this isnt the way, it's the cheap & easy way."
"."
"supported"
"as much as id really love for this to happen, i think this should wait a while before this is put in.also why the hell is this consider an \"[issue]\" its more an suggestion than anything?"
"1 this is an \"issue' because it has been years since ccp talked about adding this in. and since then, they've only added new pirate \"kill each other in the face\" patches, instead of actual \"spacey\" stuff for their deep space setting.2 \"wait a while\"? how much longer? again... years since they suggested it.for those who say \"take these discussions to features and ideas... realize that everyone knows f&i is a joke. nothing in there is ever taken seriously, and ccp has obviously formed that whole forum as a place for players to gripe and b!tch and then get over it.if comments, suggestions, and complaints are at least being heard and acknowledged here in assembly hall... then that's where people will go to voice themselves. when ccp acts like they give two ****s about their customers, then maybe the other forums will go back to serving a purpose."
"agree 200% with your commentswaiting is not months but years four to be correct so if that's not an issue - monsieur ittigerclawik must be a developper of some kind...features and ideas is indeed a joke - the drawingboard - hasn't been touched for years'in development' section is as outdated as it can get - the forum of features and ideas is full of good ideas but nothing is done with it - and then i'm not talking about stuff that is already in the game and could be improved here and there - i'm talking about stuff that is not there yet... anyway we can get the forums full with suggestions and more but it won't change a thing"
"im currently in a small mining and hauling corp and for the last 2 weeks we have been wardec this is severly crippling our enjoyment of eve as it forces people to risk expensive unarmed miners and haulers to these pvp gankers that want easy kills or for just the pleasure of ruining our fun.this is intolerable and people have been leaving the corp or effectivly logging for a week after throwing on a long skill or simply canceling their account that they are unable to enjoy.something must be done!"
"think at this:you pay millions of isk for mercenary protections, and your enemies strike you when mercenaries are not online, or anyway you are forced to play in group with online time of mercenary you hire. if those mercenary are anyway incredible good, they cannot pursuit alt pirates and similar, so your war will continue forever, and even you will upset even more the attackers that will maintain the war forever to ruin your fun.now, think at this:you hire a mercenary corp, and pay them millions of isk, they locate enemy command center and force your attackers to come out form the hole and fight back or get totally destroyed. if your attackers win, they can continue to grief you, and you have spent millions of isk for nothing. if mercenary win, read my post above. aslo you can even help the mercenary out by travelling in every system trying to locate the command center for give the location to the mercenary.i think the only problem with this system is that griefers will be not happies, cause they love only easy targets that cannot retaliate."
"the command center idea is \"epic\". i'm thinking transform the titan into this command center ... therfore putting a limit on how those beasts are used in a corporation.edits: of course there would be pilots put off they wouldnt be able to use their trained skills so maybe this:only one titan per corporation can be in command center mode. and only that titan can fit/fire its ddd as a defensive measure. the other titan pilots get extra fit slots/weapon bonuses at ccp's descretion but they cannot fit a ddd. super dreads if you will."
"i agree completely"
"not agreeing with this"
"oooo yeah i would be stoked to see constellation chat used instead of local. but if you have a heavily populated constellation would there be a lag factor?"
"/signed.i fully endorse this suggestion."
"had a very cool idea:to extend the place of small ships in a universe without local, make scanner accuracy dependent upon sig radius.in a system that would be hit or miss while trying to jump on top of enemy forces, small ships would have the advantage.say there was something like jump resolution that allowed your warp drive to lock onto ships on scanner with a certain level of accuracy.big ships are for getting the job done. small ships are for opening, closing, and finding doors."
"maybe have this implemented, buy only in lowsec/0.0? roleplay reason would be concord isn't there to count every single player."
"big thumbs up!"
"i will throw my vote this way *toss*"
"/signed"
"i support this. these ships need to do their job.g"
"this."
"this is particularly troublesome in light of ambulation.is the communication going to be equally dismal for that?can we expect the same moving deadlines we've seen on trinity?"
"i completely agree and support everything said here."
"agreed. make the eve client have a reason to have sound turned on... as i have said 100 times before, there are thousands of reasons for aurora to have a simple threat warning system, and virtually no reason for it not to. that said, i am glad that ccp is pulling the log server entirely. it will push the game back to a level playing field for a while. we stopped developing bacon after ccp changed the log server, but based on posts on our support forums, it appears that people were able to at least theoretically get around those changes."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"computers that are advanced enough to plot courses through thousands of solar systems per day should certainly be able to avoid a preset list.in fact, one option that i've been asking for in eve since day one is an \"avoid\" list. i want to be able to mark certain system as \"avoid\" jita comes readily to mind. the computer would only plot a course through that system if no other alternative within a preset amount of jumps could be found.the interface would look a bit like this:[avoid _____ system not to exceed ______ jumps.]"
"pffft need more risk than that."
"in other words you didnt actually read or understand my posts in this thread but just come with silly accusations instead of trying to argue against my points."
"lolguess you suck at trading or something...you can make chunks of cash trading with just 1 bil in capital, and to get the kind of money outclassing 0.0 ratting you need at least that invested in your mission ship as well. and unless you have no idea what you are doing, trade is totally risk free as well. whenever i bother with trading i make way more iskies for way less effort than with missions. the only 'problem' is that trading quickly bores me, while missions are still kinda fun."
"simple example of riskless trading? put buy orders in high sec for common module drops at 20% less than mineral buy orders value for the minerals components, move them to a hub where you have 100% refining, sell the minerals. you get a 20% return spending half hour hauling every few days."
"this whole speed nerf thing has me on my toes for some 2 weeks now. however, i, as many others directly and negatively affected by it, do believe that something has to be done about speed. this very thought has made me wonder why does eve's pvp or shipvship or gangvgand or fleetvfleet system need a rebalance check since it is indeed one of the most straightforward and balanced pvp systems out there. being analytical by nature i went to the beginning, albeit how did the original designers came up with ship stats and bonii. and it dawned on me, it's really really simple. when the ships were designed, bonii and penalties were incorporated to each ship while imagining it's role and performance in a fleet comprised of the same faction's ships! honestly, it's that simple. let's take a look at the individual cases.this is just the impression i got when going over the ships' details when trying to decide which race to choose and what to train for. bear with me and don't laugh, i am not saying i am completely right but i know i am not completely wrong."
"minmatar flying one for 18 months i can profess deep knowledge only about this faction, but you'll get the point have high alpha, low dps arties, with poor tracking, decent tracking acs with relatively to the other races' dps but good falloff. their ships are fast and agile and their command ship bonuses works on that. their ewar is lighting up targets, making them easier to hit for the gang, while their logistics improves their tracking, but not their optimal. these weapon systems work together perfectly. arties do low dps but if you factor in target painting their huge alpha will instapop the enemy even if not in optimal. tracking bonus will help acs do damage in falloff, while the ship stays out of enemies range due to it's bonuses maneuveraiblity. their penaltys ? crappy tanks, and mixed at that. their logistics only repairs half their ships at best and even then is inferior to the other logistics ships. style of play: trully, get in, kill as many as possible and get out of dodge race. perfectly balanced in theirselves. if you notice they are the least effective against gallente which are their rp allies.amar have high efh hulls with devastating mid range weapons. their command bonii enhance those while their logistics perfectly complement with increasing survivability under fire and give out much needed cap to sustain fire. their ewar hampers the enemy's fast movement no cap, no mwd and does hamper their ability to inflict much damage through tracking disruption. their penalties ? if you manage to dicate range and avoid their massive damage you will finally get them.style of play: stick it out and wait patiently to rain fire on the opponent. perfectly balanced in theirselves. if you notice they are the least effective against caldari which are their rp allies.gallente have excellent close range weapons, excellent ewar command bonii, pretty good hulls allowing them to get in range fast and do massive blaster damage. their drones make up for the lost dps during approach and harrass the enemy. due to drone bonii every of their ship can be an effective ewar boat as well as a strong blaster boat. their logistics do make up for damage control and poor blaster tracking. their penalties ? maybe a bit hard to fit quite a few skills to train i have to work on thatstyle of play: get in fast, do damage. perfectly balanced in theirselves. if you notice they are the least effective against minmatar who can easilly outrun them which are their rp allies.caldari have the best weapon system. don't laugh, longest range, no need for tracking, optimal / falloff, specific damage delivery. of course it has it's shortcommings, like explosion velocity and such, but hey, their ewar makes up for it. \"if you can't hit it, blind it so it can't hit you\". they have decent tanks, easilly fit on top of that, and their command bonii complement their strengths. their logistics do the same as well, improving their survivability greatly. their penalties ? they are slow and they might never get to kill the enemy if they are prepared for them.style of play: hold your distance they can't hurt you, they're blind and wait till they make a mistake. they'll die in a rain of missiles. perfectly balanced in theirselves. if you notice they are the least effective against amar who can outtank them for ever which are their rp allies."
"so, from my point of view everything is perfectly balanced this far. however, pvp is unbalanced to an extent. why is that ? well, you do understand that players will gravitate towards the best solution, so what you get is the uber fleet:every ship that gets picked is the absolute best for it's role. this is not bad in itself however it does negate the inherent penalties that ship has according to it's race. their is no reason to fear the uber tackler when the other gang's dps machine is not that strong. but when your opponent does pick the uber tackler from one race and the uber dps from another, combining their bonii and enhancing them with the bonii from a command ship from yet another race, you have only one option, to do the same.so we get gangs that consistently comprise of crows, rapiers, vagabonds/zealots, apocs and falcons. that's why you get fleets that comprise of sniper bs and a small anti-support screen. that's why you need a fleet of 150 people just to have a prayer against anything.and that's it. any attempt to rebalance stuff by nerfing a ship or a module or even across the board speed will fail against this setup. people will just pick the most unaffected / benefited ships from the balancing change and you will end up with the same mundane ship choices and near exploit fitouts like the venerable nanophoon or nanomach.what's the solution ? if you are foaming at the mouth from hearing all this, hang on tight. this will make you even angrier. flame me, but hear me out."
"make players form gangs of ships that belong to the same faction.if you didn't get that aneurism yet, here's how to do it. give gangs and fleets that are comprised of ships of only one faction, game breaking automatic bonuses relevant to their respective races' command ship bonus. you heard me right. game breaking. why ? because only then will people gravitate towards using ships of the same race and effectively not only get their bonii but also their inherent penalties. a gang of minmatar ships will have their uber-vagas and uber-rapiers but also have their crappy tempests and silly maelstroms for bs.what i mean by game breaking ? let's see... since i am minmatar, let's say that a minmatar fleet will automatically get a 25% increase in base speed for every ship in the gang, a 25% reduction of sig radius and a 25% increase in their web, scrambling and disrupting bonus. that's on top of the bonus they might get by a command ship minmatar of course that might be in the gang. game breaking ? for sure. it would be so much game breaking that people might actually find it worthy to use the scimitar for logistics in the gang making use of the tracking link bonus. and also use the don't laugh target painters to give their bs some extra dps to actually kill something.and what is to stop that uber gang ? but of course, your game breaking bonused amar or caldari gang ! an amar gang that can suck up all the damage of the afformentioned minamatar gang and instapop any ship that might get in their sights, or the gallente gang that will negate all damage by shortening the range of minmatar weapons and chewing them up with drones until they finaly get them one by one in their webs or the caldari uber gang that will chew everyone but the smaller fastest ships from afar with their missiles.get my point ? every race can actually battle every other race on an even field. well, with minor tweaks that must be made, but minor sensor damps for example, they need to get un-nerfed. missile velocity and explosion velocity? sure! double it, cause missiles would be used in a caldari fleet that has other balancing penalties.and that is exactly my second point. speed is overpowered because due to mixed fleets, everyone benefits from it - that's how you get nanotars, nanozealots and nanomachs. sensor dams were overpowered because everyone used them. but if you give minmatar ships the option to use something else, then they wouldn't use sensor damps, and there wouldn't be the need to nerf them, effectively destroying the ewar of the gallente.aforementioned examples are rather random and may not work exactly as depicted by me, but i am sure you will find similar situations based on your own experiences.edit: alternate proposal and maybe more balanced system in post #53, page 2 of this thread."
"so, how would this be implemented ?i don't think it would be too hard to do, code wisely. it would be rather tought to decide to on the bonii each faction fleet would get and how much of each, but i think it can be done rather painlessly with a month's playtesting in sisi with the help of the player base. number crunching, relative rebalancing all can be done, with no code alterations. it's even roleplaying viable by say... adding an iherent link in all ships of the same faction that would make them co-operate and share resources.capitals i have not thought about, because i have no hands on experience, i generaly don't understand how they work and they have very specific use, but i envision greatness if proper effort is put into them.how actual gameplay would be affected ? there would be whine, but nothing game breaking. especially if the changes are outlined 6 months or more before coming into effect. that would give everyone enough time to make their skill plans accordingly. yes, it might mess them for a few months come on, you only need to do cruiser v for every race, weapons are easy but again, with proper warning it would just make for infinately better gameplay in the long run.missioners are unaffected or positively affected.solo pvpers would not be affected except when against faction-gangs, but hey, they would be toast against any gang if flying alone.older players are mostly crosstrained, when their corp or alliance decide to fly minmatar fleets or caldari fleets they are bound to be able to fly a couple of ship classes in each. it might even turn more people to crosstraining every faction so that we wouldn't get so many bored capital pilots capital-online anyone ?alliances have players of all races of all skills so they would be able to make up fleets of anything they wished. imagine the ramifications of being able to use a gallente fleet to invade, an amar fleet to defend, a minmatar fleet to harass and recon and a caldari fleet to... ehm, defend a pos / gate maybe ? and it's easy for pvp alliances to issue orders on prerequisits on fly-able ship for their members during the pre-patch period.the most affected would be small corps with relatively low skilled players. they would have to totaly co-operate to get their skills together. it can be done, and since their not that deep into the game, it will be easy cough for them to decide on a common course over the next 6 months.frankly, i can see no disadvantage in altering eve gameplay to this. granted, it's radical, it's game changing.but i am playing full time for the past 18 months and i can see only good coming from this. you make smaller fleets stronger and maybe avoid blobs!, you give roleplaying a great boost, you make people work together while limiting their freedom just by a bit, you effectively enforce factional warfare on all eve without making up an artificial environment for it. it will still be rock - paper - scissor but on a team basis, not on a iwin ship class.so.... that is my mega wall of text. bash me all you want, i am very interested to see how you see this."
"i see what your saying and i have to agree.....but i would like to point out that it is kind of like this already.in my corporation, we have at least 80% gallente people, so generally when i fc corp ops we end up gallente ships. its really nice when this happens, you dont have to worry about ships preforming in different ways and you dont have to worry about having to employ different tactics with different ships. basicaly put, its an advantage and although a bonus would be cool, im not sure i agree with all the details, good idea anyway."
"i would like to see 0.0 sovereignty changed as it is currently boring and except for fights at pre-arranged times discourages pvp. the change i would like to see is to move away from actual structures causing sovereignty and a move to actual things people do in game. these actions would be counted by sovereignty points.sovereignty points would be gained by doing a number of things, these include npc ratting, complex running, asteroid mining, moon mining, player kills, pos kills, number of stations owned and gates used. by gates used, i mean people moving around unopposed should have an effect, probably very small but it would work for both the raiders and the people living there, unless of course you are camped into your own stations. there may be other kinds of things that i haven't thought of that could or should contribute and i welcome any suggestions/corrections. player kills and pos kills i believe should take a certain prominence in any formula used to encourage pvp and keep the game focused on this path. now i don't claim to be clever enough to work out a formula for this to work, but i do think there are clever enough people developing this game or playing this game to work it out either themselves or as a group.sovereignty points would be maxed out at a certain number in each system and you can only have max points as long as all connecting systems have a positive amount of points for you as well. as you max out the points in that one system the pointsor a % of the points gained there would spread out to other systems, nearest first until these are also maxed, perhaps some limit is needed here to the maximum range that points can spread. this perhaps might be effected by sov levels, which would be gained by controlling an area and having maximum points in the system. there should also be a standard creep of sov out from central points, this would be very slow and gradual but still there, and to counteract this should no points be gained in the area a gradual decrease. should you gain points but not be from the sov holding alliance the points would be removed from the sov holding alliances total points. if they had maximum points in this system though, they would not be removed from the system in question but from the nearest system without maximum points. i would also introduce a new pos module for station/system defence, a forcefield generator. this generator would project a forcefield over the station that is impenetrable for conventional weapons to break, so to shoot and gain control of a station you would have to destroy this module. this module would be limited by the sovereignty level you have so you can only have a certain amount per level, perhaps 1-2. should these be destroyed the station would become vulnerable to capture, they would also become inactive as the sovereignty level dropped until someone lost sov, again making stations vulnerable. this would enable large alliances to go into a system and still brute force their way in by destroying all the pos, but would also allow the smaller gangs to eventually even take a station themselves by constantly raiding. defenders would eventually be forced to fight and couldn't just turtle up in their station and rat/mine when people go away. to combat these just being replaced they would take a very long time to anchor/online, perhaps 1 week even. as for the benefits of gaining sov and there should be some. i have seen some ideas for various new objects that could be anchored and used at different levels of sov. one such idea is asteroid seed bays, which over time would increase the quality of asteroids in the belts. another would be for the actual true sec ratting rating to increase over time, or for specific modules that can be anchored in belts that would increase it. perhaps these could be pirate settlements of some kind? and finally cynojammers/jump bridges.continued on post 20~~"
"first of all i thought your account had been hacked.. but i see where you're going with this.personally i'd like to see pos's go down first time they're attacked instead of the make believe reinforced mode... buff them a bit but let them be destroyed first visit.cynojammers... something needs to change here."
"nice idea.the sov system needs a change,0.0 warfare is way to mutch focused on large blobs and boring poswarfare nowdays,pvp in eve could be so mutch more fun."
"i definitely support the principle. we do really need a more detailed proposal though. ccp have specifically asked us on the csm to chase up some good detailed ideas for overhauling sovereignty and its pretty clear there is a serious problem with the status quo. any chance of spending a bit of time this week working on the proposal in more detail narciss? as long as the op can be updated by a week this sunday august 12th we could submit it to the final csm approval meeting in session 2 prior to the end of august csm/ccp meets."
"i've had an idea quite like this for a long time.you'd need a rolling total of points rather than some x day calculation, so defenders can build up an advantage. they should have something on an inherent advantage just so 0.0 isn't a total cluster**** and there's time to plan - but as it's rolling it won't help them our for long and only works at all if they're using space.also pvp should be heavily weighted in points compared to say mining, just because a hulk invasion is conceptually silly. the \"usage points\" would mainly be a not insignificant top up for people living there. something to get carebears involved and useful in the sov game beyond logistics.you'd also need to be able to trade/pool your alliance's points with any other alliance, to allow for rental arrangements - but that's a minor thing.like you i haven't really worked out details but there's a germ of a great idea there.edit: in case it's not clear, to explain what i mean by a rolling total of points. you get points added daily and they build up for a month/fortnight or whatever. but the points you gained 30/15 days ago don't count anymore. so assuming you've been in that space you have a nice but not insermountable buffer built up when the invasion comes. if it's a total blitz the enemy might even be able to take over your space while your buffer still counts but if not after 30/15 days things are equalized anyway and if they're still around things are on an equal footing."
"add a few more metrics and you're golden: complexes run, lp gained, etc. so... something like this."
"i think there needs to be a confirmation window available to a victim of an attack in case of accidental or unintentional attacks i was in a group but i wasnt in the same corp as the other guy and he accidently attacked me and was destroyed when nether of us wanted thatthere could be cryteria to be meet for the confirmation one of which is if your grouped or have a good sec rating.i know this can occure alot with power transfers or repair drones because friendly targets and enemy targets are clumped together."
"there is a confirmation window. the thing is you can disable it and a lot of people just disable pop-up's without thinking about it and pay the price for it later.sounds like your friend did just that."
"if all of the changes that are listed in the op post are implemented, this will be more than enough to curb the relentless amount of guttless high-sec ganking that goes on.ganking is impotant to stay within eve, but when 80% of the gates, 10 jumps in any direction from jita, have ganking teams or scouts stationed at them 23/7; yeah, you know this side of the game has gotten way too profitable and easily done.ccp is taking the right approach here, limit ganking, but don't get rid of it. now, if they could only be this even handed with speed and agility......"
"this. which is why you wouldn't want a fw forum in there.for these reasons, and for a little feuding i'd say. and for some battle reports that details the course of the action if a system is taken, or an important battle was held. then both sides can discuss. but it should have been there from the start. just take a stroll along all the boards and count how many fw threads you can find in the different sections. if you can find a total 12 on the first 3 pages of all the boards collectively, you're a big guy. there's been no area to adopt here by fw players. boo."
"this would be like fu***ing herding cats. this is the best example of soul destroying micro management that you can possible come up with. pos warfare is butt numbing now, this will be the nail the coffin.i have seen alliances trying to drum up support broadcasting their cta and deploying the \"airwing!!\" i have see them actually schedule times to patrol their borders. it lasted less than a week. every one got tired of it. it made the game suck for them. look if you don't have the balls or resources to take my space then you need to go back and drop a pair and start building up. otherwise you can do what every other merc and hostile alliance gang does. grief the locals. that is by far much more fun than staring at a gate or playing capture the flag."
"i don't play in 0.0, but agree with your general aims:i disagree with your method of achieving it. frankly, it's too focused on a straight-up military notion of attack and defend. i'd rather see a system that took into account a number of measurable achievements on a per system basis, each suited to different play stiles in eve online - pvp losses inflicted, npc bounties collected, mission lp earned, poses maintained, quantity of ore mined, complexes run, etc. the alliance \"winning\" the majority of metrics for any given week takes control of that system for the following week or whatever time period is used. to keep constellations from flipping too quickly, you could classify any controlled system in which all adjacent systems are also controlled as being \"invulnerable\" for the week. if that resulted in too few contested systems, you could make an exception for \"dead end\" systems with only one adjacent system and keep them vulnerable to take over at any time.the general idea would be to spread alliance forces out along the edge of their controlled area, and prevent blobbing by presenting numerous play style tasks beyond straight pvp which are ill-suited to blobbing. because control is fought along the edges, large territories progressively become more difficult to maintain control over. small alliances strictly focused on small areas of space would be able to compete well against larger alliances with vast resources controlling large areas of space because of the multiple different metrics used to determine sovereignty.it seems to me again, admittedly as a 0.0 spectator that you would stand to bring more people out of high sec by directly appealing to these different play styles as an element of sovereignty warfare. pvp components would still be there, both as tracked metrics directly contributing to determining system control and as protection forces allowing the less-pvp centered pilots to continue working away at the less-pvp centered metrics with minimal disruption.i dunno, a system which doesn't solely revolve around fleet and gang pvp seems far more attractive to me. at the very least i think it would stand to make 0.0 more attractive to the empire dwellers.ambulation tie in - the ability to display which benchmarks are under threat in contested systems on the tactical map."
"responding to a few points:1 gatecamping is boring!holding a position within enemy territory will be as exciting or boring as the enemy makes it. the capture and reclaiming times can be tweaked to create a maximum incentive for defenders to interrupt a gate capture rather than wait for it to be complete to reclaim it, and contest period durations can be adjusted to reach the right rate of turnover in a conflict between two forces battling for control of a territory, whether they are in the same time zone or not.by moving a portion of the sovereignty benefits away from pos logistics and onto small ship patrols via stargate capture, pos logistics can be simplified to reduce the tedium of maintaining a large pos network. lower the territory control benefit derived from pos and the accompanying work required can also be lowered.2 distributed objectives are stupid! too much running around/blobs!the contesting of stargates across a constellation or region turns what would be a series of individual fleet conflicts into an ongoing battle for dominance in an area over days or weeks. in addition to the single fleet fights over pos we can introduce an additional layer of small scale combat that is measured in small doses across a large space over a long period of time. small scale combat can now make an impact on the sovereignty of an area - though small scale combat alone will still never dislodge a sitting power, it can however weaken and harass it. which leads us to...3 this is just to make it easy for small/lame alliances to compete with big/awesome ones!clearly a small alliance cannot destroy or dislodge the holdings of a larger, equally well coordinated, alliance under this proposal. it may be that a large alliance currently holding large amounts of uncontested territory through the current system would see new vulnerabilities appear with the implementation of a system like this. however given proper organization and the right informational tools which are provided for in this proposal a well coordinated large alliance should be able to maintain control over a large area of space and exploit its resources much in the way they do now. it is not the intention of this proposal that large alliances should suddenly become untenable, and balancing tweaks of the numbers in the proposal should be made with an eye towards preserving the capability for a talented and organized alliance to maintain territory equivalent to their needs.overall the intentions of the proposal are clearly defined in the op, and those intentions are part and parcel to what would be communicated to ccp. there should be no fear of hidden agendas within the details of the proposal, as the overriding principal communicated here would be to make adjustments as necessary to meet the criteria listed at the start, and it would be pretty silly to think that a small adjustable detail would override the broad mission statement."
"i'll also just reiterate that i definitely want to hear feedback on how the goals outlined at the beginning of the proposal can be better achieved, and what might make the whole thing more appealing to anyone on the fence about it. obviously nothing is set in stone and nothing presented to ccp is ever going to be implemented without proper balancing. i do think that this proposal achieves the goals set out during the iceland meeting especially in regards to layering sovereignty warfare and providing objectives for small ships.some of the best changes were the result of community feedback, so i hope if anyone has concerns they can offer some quality ideas for how to resolve them."
"like some stuff here, especially moving cyno jammers away from poses so they have to be defended manually. doesnt fix the problem of supercaps remote reppng them, but at least exposes them to much more risk, and its a step in the right direction. theres definitly some stuff in here that wont work as is though, but might with some adjustment. its something ill support since it does take a step in the right direction imo."
"reads like it was written by someone who has no idea of how tedious 0.0 is already.oh wait...."
"so a large alliance will either wreck a smaller one in one time zone or in many. if you cut the time limits, you make it time zone dependent. domination in one leads to victory in that time zone, which can be overturned in the next. this leads to stalemate, boredom, and just going through the motions to repeatedly shift the \"winner\" at a certain gate without opposition. or, it leads to complete victory for any alliance that can overwhelm it's enemy round the clock, or just in their prime. after all, if you can swamp them in their prime time, without it being yours, you can certainly screw them over out of it. alarm-clocking will only do so much.then, if you leave the time limits, you also make it time zone dependent. as soon as your attendance drops, theirs overwhelms. it will just remain, as it has been, about who can get the most people on the field at the correct time. nothing you have said so far will in any way affect that. this also just sounds like replacing the current boredoms of pos warfare with a higher class of boredom. instead of sitting for an hour shooting a pos while you hope the enemy fleet arrives so you actually get a fight, you sit for half an hour on one of many different gates while you hope the enemy fleet doesn't arrive, because you can't run away without completely and utterly wasting the 25 minutes you've sat there. unless, of course, you're blobbing, which this is supposed to avoid. this entire paragraph basically says \"people who are capable of holding 0.0 now, will probably be capable of holding it in the future\". well done. large corps/alliances that have made friends with other large and capable coprs/alliances will not suddenly fall apart. the reasons they survive now will be the reasons they survive in the future. they have friends, they're not ******s. not as a whole anyway. the individual members can be. your idea is bad, and you should feel bad.small corps fail in non-npc 0.0 not because there's some massive imbalance in the code that automatically favours larger ones, but simply because the larger ones exist. a small group of people who only play in three or four hours out of the day will get kerb-stomped by a multi-national alliance who are present all day. if they couldn't, it wouldn't make any sense. if two corps the same size can fight over an objective fairly, then another corp on one side will take objective two unchallenged. if corps three through five join up as well to cover all time zones, they will have periods on the clock without opposition. if you somehow nerfed huge alliances, all that would happen is that the alliances would form and organise out of game, as they currently do anyway. the game is just not built to be friendly to people who cannot make some ****ing friends."
"yes, let's allow those who have no holdings in 0.0 and little experience decide how 0.0 should be revamped: beautiful. i agree there is change, but i do not in any way shape or form agree with the methods or proposals you have put forth. additionally, i would encourage those who have a stake in 0.0 already to come up with a proposal else the empire sloth who has had everything handed to them by ccp will destroy it."
"i think the proposal would be improved if the barrier-for-entry for sov warfare were a little higher, so that beginning the opening moves of assaulting someone's space is something that a group of people has to organize and set out intentionally to do.re-reading the proposal, i think that contesting stargates is still at the \"oh, why not? we're here anyway\" level of accessibility. if a group of guys has the ships at the gate and things are quiet enough, they can do it. even if they initially set out just to gank ratters or whatever.i think that the ships who are actively contesting the stargate need to be consuming some kind of resource while they do so, just like dreads consume a resource while they're sieged. it should also require a specific midslot module. this way, if a group of people want to get into the sov warfare game, they have to prepare to do so before they undock and not just on a lark."
"okay, this is a serious question. if this change were to go through wouldn't it make 0.0 pretty much just an extended version of faction warfare? i'm not a huge fan of faction warfare already, so i would hate for it to be a mandatory thing to do day in and day out, and without the perks of factional warfare. as of now there are very few real perks to living in 0.0 space and by implementing a need for gate camps around the clock you would drive people away from 0.0 faster than even pos warfare could.seriously, leave the 0.0 discussion to those who actually live in 0.0"
"if you turn eve's 0.0 warfare into a gigantic clone of a world of warcraft battleground, i'm going to cancel my accounts. just sayin. its the terrible logistical requirements of 0.0 warfare that keep people playing this game as opposed to any other mmo out there. everyone whines about it because it can be a tital pain at times, but to be honest when you make things too easy you end up with a game like planetside-- you go spend an hour or two fighting for control of a few conquerable facilities, and as soon as you lock down all the facilities on one continent and move to another, 2 people sneak in behind you and capture half the facilities back. its the large scale and unforgiving nature of 0.0 combat that provides the sense of risk, actual teamwork, and satisfaction when you curbstomp other alliances. allowing roaming hac gangs to cripple hard-earned infrastructure in 0.0 space through a series of 10 minute drive-bys is not a way to encourage people to move out of empire. i'd think providing additional benefits to sov holders while maintaining the same or at least a similar system for conquering space would be a better approach."
"also, about the timezone games: the stages of contesting a stargate should more closely mirror pos mechanics. but it would be too tedious to load stargates up with a resource that determines when a stargate changes states. here's what i'm thinking:defender has captured the gate. they have configured the gate with their primetime, 0:00 evetime.captured-attacker contests the gate. they configure the gate with their primetime, 12:00 evetime. upon mouse-over, the gate indicates that it will come out of the contested state at 6:00 evetime -- the midpoint of the defender's and attacker's selected times.contested-at the midpoint of the defender and the attackers primetimes 6:00 eve, the gate automatically changes to:neutral-the gate can be claimed in the normal way by either the attacker or the defender, whichever gains supremacy at the gate first for long enough to do so. however, if neither side captures the gate within 12 hours, it automatically reverts to captured by the defender.captured by whoever wins the gate, or the defender if noone even tries.so this way, contesting a gate is basically setting an appointment in the future with your enemy for pvp. and if a serious attacker brings a fleet of 300 people to contest 30 gates simultaneously in one night such that they all hit neutral at near the same time, then it's going to be damn tricky for defender to pick where to send a blob. this also gives everyone the option of trying to game the time they configure into the stargate for a timezone advantage, which takes some intelligence.and by the way, ccp cannot be sending out a mail every time a gate changes state. no evemails."
"dat's a lot of words over 0.0 from someone who's never been there. keep up the good fight!"
"here is a new requirement we need: only people who have spent a serious amount of time living in 0.0 can propose changes to the way 0.0 warfare works."
"i like the idea of setting an appointment for pvp with your enemy. but averaging the times inputted by the defender and then the attacker gives most of the control over the appointment time to the attacker though, which runs counter to the way pos sieging works and i think gives too much power to the attacker. would it not be fine for the defender to just set the \"appointment time\" on each gate they control?the other downside i see is your default outcome once a gate is contested being that it reverts to captured defender if nobody touches it again. i guess this is debatable, but something i like under the proposal's system is that a contested gate goes neutral if nobody touches it again, so there is some entropy towards neutrality - i think it's important that there is a way for a stargate to go back to it's original neutral state.so is there a way to reconcile those two things? appointments for pvp, even broad ones, would be good - but how do you have that without requiring an attacker to essentially attack twice, which is already a feature of pos warfare and doesn't seem appropriate for small scale pvp."
"a+ on this troll thread kelsin. i think the assembly hall needs more of this, eve-o is pretty boring in general with no one doing anything of significance."
"here's an option for this:defender captures stargate and sets a \"failsafe time\". this is the time of day at which the stargate will revert to neutral if it becomes contested.if an attacker contests the stargate, it goes into contested mode and cannot be interacted with until the failsafe time. at that point it returns to neutral and anyone may capture it.the downside here is that the defender now has to show up at a specific time to be sure to recapture the gate. that's good for setting appointments for pvp, but it puts the burden of meeting those appointments on the defender, which may not be something we want for stargate capture, since i think it serves better as an incentive to patrol and engage in random pvp rather than set time pvp. but i'd be interested to hear what toman thinks.also the idea of attackers needing to prepare in some way is interesting. i'd avoid a specific skill being needed, but potentially fitting a particular module or needing a particular type of resource could be useful. still, there's something to be said for any ship being able to do it just because they are there. perhaps an alternative can be devised, but i'd leave the option open for it to go either way in presenting it to ccp."
"if i wanted to set a ****ing appointment for combat, i would build a ****ing time machine, dress in a ****ing frock coat and travel back to the ****ing 1700's so i could slap the uncouth with my glove and meet them on the heath at dawn.if you can't turn up to defend your space, or find someone who will do it for you, you shouldn't have it."
"the point really is for it to mirror pos mechanics. the averaging of times that i used approximates the effect of strong timing. in pos-killing, an attacker reinforces the pos and then everyone gets a timer to see when to show back up for a fight. the downside of how it works for pos is that the defender has to stront and rep towers. \"stronting\" and \"repping\" jumpgates is not appropriate for this distributed small-gang stuff, but the \"appointment-making\" aspect of pos-fighting is. see, the fun is if the mechanic motivates people to actually fight each other. that's why the attacker needs to show up twice, and it's why the timing mechanism tries to find a time for the gate to hit neutral when both sides of a cross-timezone conflict might be able to get a few people to show up.i don't think that people will like the mechanic if the only way to get fights is to patrol the space or camp contested gates, because those two things are kind of boring and because it won't pull enemies from different timezones to the same place and time.you don't want the defender to have total control over the time that the gate hits neutral, because then an attacker in another timezone would have to alarm clock to take a gate."
"the problem with this proposal is it requires wayyy too much time investment just sitting at gates doing nothing. it's already bad when we have gangs that go out and sit for hours at gates waiting for dreads to slag towers.it's also a bit *too* easy for small gangs to become nuances. i want small gang warfare to be viable, but this seems too much. there's no encentive to actually fight. instead of big fights all your ever going to see is small 10 man gangs running around -trying- to avoid each other and find some out of the way gate to contest just to anoy people, and then 10 man gangs comming in after they leave/log to reclaim the system. and imagine logging on in the morning to find out that some roaming gang contested half your systems for fun having no intentions of taking over the space at 3am in the morning and now you've got to spend all day going and sitting at them to recapture them. sure, fine, chalk it up to a new system. but then it happens again and again and again and befor eyou know it you're logging on eve just to gate sit and do nothing else. it's a very boring mechanic and does nothing to promote fighting or make things interesting. it's an interesting proposal, but 00 needs more than this. it needs fights, not timesinks."
"this increases the cost in vigilance needed to hold space beyond what's currently required. if that's part of the proposal, then the space needs to made more valuable. you see? you can't make the space require more effort to hold without also making it more worthwhile to hold it.currently \"random pvp\" has no effect on anyone's ability to hold sov in their space. to the degree that it's going to under this proposal, the space needs to become more valuable."
"true, but this comes down to two things: 1 what 'vigilance' type activities can we remove from pos warfare to make up for adding some in another form to stargate capture, and 2 what benefits are governed by stargate capture that justify that vigilance.i mean, what if you didn't have to refuel pos? would that be a fair tradeoff for having to patrol space? what about additional bonuses that help in territory control? does that make having to patrol more worthwhile?"
"i don't really know how to suggest a trade-off like that.just to be clear, what we're talking about here specifically is the defender making the effort to recapture gates that have gone neutral and that the attacker has given up on. i just don't see the fun in it, but i can see the tedium in it. i'm really about the mechanics being fun and encouraging fights.one thing i like about pos fights is that they can be planned for. if we have kited an enemy pos and reinforced so that it comes out in our prime, we know we can show up at that pos at that time and have a good chance of getting a fight. people can plan a schedule around that, and organize. what i was shooting for was a small-gang version of the same mechanic, such that you don't have to cast about hoping for pvp in a small gang, but rather have a system that make it...almost schedulable.a lot of people like how the flow of pos warfare works. just don't like the fact that you have to be in a sniper bs in a 200-person fleet in a system that's lagged to hell because there are 500 guys in it, just to *matter*."
"i see where you're going with that. what concerns me is that if you try to have a way to schedule small gang fights, a single small gang can't make any impact on a larger entity - even just minorly inconveniencing them - because to do so they have to show up at a predetermined time and place where a huge enemy force could be waiting for them. what can be done about that?"
"the quick answer is that the defender has to show up whether the attacker is small or not, because if they don't then even a small attacker could cost them a gate. if the defender is forced to plan, organize, and show up in force to re-capture a contested gate, then the small attacker has had an impact that, in my opinion, is generous given their size.the pvp is schedulable under your system as posted in the op as well. the attacker determines the schedule: it's 24 hours after they contest. all i'm really doing is making the scheduling a compromise between attacker and defender so as to match-make some combat and limit the playing of timezone games. this way the schedulable pvp won't all be at 4am on a workday for me."
"arguing over the details of a fundamentally tedious and unlikely to be coded idea is a worse idea.there are some sub-components of this proposal that seem like a good idea like the getting the cyno jammer away from a deathstar pos. this could easily be achieved by simply jacking up their pg requirements to not allow anything else on the pos instead of asking ccp to code anchorable jammers in space away from moons. much more likely to get coded that way."
"by definition, yes. if a person has never flown a nano ship or combated a nano ship, then by definition, they know nothing about the nano ship, and therefor, anything they state is pulled from their imagination of how they think things work.if people never encounter a nano ship, either as their own vehicle of assault or as an enemy, then the mechanics of it are of zero consequence to them, and as such, their view is completely irrelevant when talking about game balancing issues.so yes, only those that have reasonable experience with what is at issue should be proposing changes.don't take this as saying that ideas shouldn't be given, as that would be quite foolish and would result in stagnation at some point. however, this isn't an idea to spruce up 0.0 warfare, it is an idea to completely change it. there is a big difference, as one deals with the content of the warfare, whereas the other deals with the actual mechanics."
"your ideas reflect a course to achieve your goals, and to that end, you have come up with an elaborate, if rough, design.the issue is your goals.goal 1 - definitely a good idea. the defender advantage, currently, is a very basic design and quite limited in actual scope and variety.goal 2 - time zone issues is partly a meta-game issue. i personally feel such things should not have that great of an impact, as the real world and the game world really should be separate. on the other hand, there is a reason this exists, and the reason is pretty simple: it is a game and people that play the game want a chance to play. hence, putting a tower into reinforced is attacker's time, where as when it comes out of reinforced is supposed to be the defender's time. this is simply so that alliances that cannot realistically be around 24/7 actually have a chance to accomplish their own gameplay goals.therefore, dispersing whatever mechanics so that time zones aren't as big of a factor is definitely a good thing. ultimately it will always be a factor, but the effect can be lessened.goal 3 - your end result is poor, as you stated. using game mechanics to reduce lag is backwards. you have blended real life into the game world, which is always bad. the goal of multiple fleets should have absolutely nothing to do with performance issues, which should be a completely different issue that ccp works on such that any tactic used, be it multiple fleets across eve or one huge ass 2000 person fleet battle on the same grid, is viable.whatever your third goal here is, it should have nothing to do with lag. as such, it is clear you want to reduce blobbing, so you should have a good, relevant, game play reason for wanting to reduce blobbing. ultimately, this won't work anyway. the simplest way to defend or attack is with overwhelming power. play any rts, and you will see this happen. even if you divide it up so that there are multiple fleets, the alliance goal will still always be to maximize the size of that fleet.what i am getting at is this is a pointless goal the point of trying to stop blobbing, not necessarily creating incentive to use multiple fleets.goal 4 - this already occurs, although it doesn't always have an effect on sov. also, nobody is going to want to patrol space. even if patrolling is sitting on every gate that leads into your territory, nobody wants to do that. that is a boring mechanic and a complete waste of a person's time. if anything, there should be an automated system that tells an alliance when a red enters into any of their systems. but god help us if you actually envisioned patrol routes. playing security gaurd on the off chance that you'll get action is not fun. if you want action, you seek it out.as for giving subcapitals more to do, i doubt anybody can actually complain about that. variety is the spice of life, and anything to break monotony and still be meaningful should be welcomed."
"i'd have to disagree with you there lumen. i think game mechanics could be fundamental to performance issues. if it is more advantageous to have many smaller fleets accomplishing various objectives then the tendency for everyone to glob in one spot would be reduced greatly. this might not be easily achievable, but the possibility exists."
"the star fraction do not live in 0.0 space, and hence should not be having any say whatsoever in any 0.0 space proposals.voting no."
"24 hours is too short a period for contesting.and the abscence of any need to do something at a particular time rather than at some point in 24-48-72 whatever hours makes it most unlikely that players will ever meet to pvp.further, anything that allows the attacker to pick the time of a defence results in alarm clock raids that are no fun for anyone.finally, to avoid that turning into pos warfare, but-at-gates, you probably want to force all the gate attacks to run simulateneously, splitting up fleets.if we were to go down this road, you would have to set a rule that any gate in contested drops out of contested after an hour if all the system gates are not also contested. once all the gates are contested, a system wide strontium/reinforced mechanic starts up, defining the time when the final system defence is going to happen. attacker needs to win more than 50% of the gates at the specific time they come out of reinforced to take the system.poss should transmit defensive benefits to the gates, so if the attacker wants to go pos shooting before gate camping, i guess they can.even with the modifications i'm suggesting - i'm not convinced that this is a good idea, i'm just trying to make suggestions to move it from 'game breaking', up to 'decidedly dubious'.as it stands, not supported because the proposal causes more problems than it solves."
"0.0 needs to made easier to capture, hold, and needs things that make holding that space more profitable/worthwhile. the gate contention thing is rediculous.this would make it absolutely impossible to hold space without complete timezone coverage, and is a pretty rediculous idea. making 0.0 space significantly more annoying to attack and defend and manage is all it needs to be completely worthless and not worth a damn to actually hold.if you'd ever lived in 0.0 you might know this.since you seems to know next to nothing about 0.0 life, it's no wonder you might think this a good idea.just because you've repeatedly failed miserably at 0.0 war....... this isn't going to make it easier.here's some things that actually need fixing, maybe the csm could work on making improvments to the already existing game instead of thinking they know how to re-engineer part of it they know nothing about.[*]lag[*]pos setup times are rediculous. [*]fix jumpbridges so they only accept ozone and nothing else [*]keep exploration sites from de-spawning when your connection is interrupted. even a 5 minute timer would be fantastic for this.[*]0.0 options that make space more profitable, belt miners/system salvagers/something?[*]cyno jammers are overpowered[*]stop ****ing people who have spent months training into advanced ships only to have them nerfed. come up with a game plan and stick to it, rather than constantly shifting **** around to make things \"fair.\" if you're tired of nano-gangs of ecm, then train into something to counter it, don't whine and complain until daddy makes the bad men stop touching you."
"so a large alliance will either wreck a smaller one in one time zone or in many. if you cut the time limits, you make it time zone dependent. domination in one leads to victory in that time zone, which can be overturned in the next. this leads to stalemate, boredom, and just going through the motions to repeatedly shift the \"winner\" at a certain gate without opposition. or, it leads to complete victory for any alliance that can overwhelm it's enemy round the clock, or just in their prime. after all, if you can swamp them in their prime time, without it being yours, you can certainly screw them over out of it. alarm-clocking will only do so much.then, if you leave the time limits, you also make it time zone dependent. as soon as your attendance drops, theirs overwhelms. it will just remain, as it has been, about who can get the most people on the field at the correct time. nothing you have said so far will in any way affect that. this also just sounds like replacing the current boredoms of pos warfare with a higher class of boredom. instead of sitting for an hour shooting a pos while you hope the enemy fleet arrives so you actually get a fight, you sit for half an hour on one of many different gates while you hope the enemy fleet doesn't arrive, because you can't run away without completely and utterly wasting the 25 minutes you've sat there. unless, of course, you're blobbing, which this is supposed to avoid. this entire paragraph basically says \"people who are capable of holding 0.0 now, will probably be capable of holding it in the future\". well done. large corps/alliances that have made friends with other large and capable coprs/alliances will not suddenly fall apart. the reasons they survive now will be the reasons they survive in the future. they have friends, they're not ******s. not as a whole anyway. the individual members can be. your idea is bad, and you should feel bad.small corps fail in non-npc 0.0 not because there's some massive imbalance in the code that automatically favours larger ones, but simply because the larger ones exist. a small group of people who only play in three or four hours out of the day will get kerb-stomped by a multi-national alliance who are present all day. if they couldn't, it wouldn't make any sense. if two corps the same size can fight over an objective fairly, then another corp on one side will take objective two unchallenged. if corps three through five join up as well to cover all time zones, they will have periods on the clock without opposition. if you somehow nerfed huge alliances, all that would happen is that the alliances would form and organise out of game, as they currently do anyway. the game is just not built to be friendly to people who cannot make some ****ing friends.quoted for truth."
"you can't present a fundamentally flawed idea and then say \"well just fix it for me.\" it is analogous to ****** saying \"ok guys lets gas all the jews but im open to suggestions, maybe firing squad instead?\"your idea, as has been pointed out many times in this thread, will not work. it creates more boredom, creates bigger time zone problems, and creates a ton more lag logging every jump for every alliance member jesus it contradicts the very goals you state that your trying to fix. superimposing your small empire corp onto 0.0 just plain wont work.tl;dr stop killing jews"
"what a superb set of ideas!soooo signed!"
"very good set of ideas and just whats needed to improve 0.0 warfare. the 3 layers of defense fights is a brilliant way to break up blobs and give everyone things to do. i'm not sure the people saying they don't like this idea have read the first posts in the thread. support!"
"i think the third goal of creating incentives to field multiple forces is just worded improperly - avoiding lag-inducing blobs is meant to be a beneficial side effect and i shouldn't have put that as the main point, instead incentivizing the splitting up of large forces is meant to be a way to keep small gang objectives small gang friendly to resist the \"more is always better\" concept. so if you want to go into enemy territory and knock out a few of their stargates, you're encouraged to divide your 30-man fleet into 3 and cover more territory than stay as a single 30-man group. likewise a massive 200-man invasion is better off dividing into many smaller groups to be more effective. the fact that many isolated small encounters would be less prone to lag than single massive encounters is just a beneficial side effect.regarding patrolling: some have a misconception that this proposal requires defenders to constantly patrol. the work of the defender is to perform maintenance on their stargate network in exchange for sov-style benefits. the amount of maintenance is directly related to the amount of attacks on their stargate network. in secure and peaceful areas, no stargate maintenance is required at all. in porous and poorly secured areas, defenders will have to recapture stargates that attackers have contested."
"i think part of the misunderstanding is because you keep referring to the two sides as 'attackers' and 'defenders', when actually what you propose doesn't make any combat likely at all.it isn't attackers and defenders, it's just people running about capping gates at times when the other team isn't online."
"don't like it for the simple reason that eve sovereignty combat should be about shooting ships, not shooting structures. there's already all too much shooting/repairing of structures in the game damn station services...do you know how boring it is to shoot structures? do you know how boring it is to repair them?you probably do... why the hell do you want more?remember that the large majority of eve players don't want to fight even fights, and there really is nothing in here that forces you to fight. so what will happen when someone attacks your structures is one of two:1. you can not gather a larger force, so you wait until they go away and repair the damage in your tz.2. you can gather a larger force, so the enemy runs away.what'll determine the outcome of the 'war' is not who're the best fighters. it'll be who tires first of shooting/repping structures.something like this is not going to encourage combat as it'll work just like shootable services do. the blob shooting them will be bored, and the blob who come later to repair them will be bored.forget about the 'split forces' thing. it is not a matter of \"can be done quicker if force is split!\", it is a matter of \"can be done safer if force is not split!\".sovereignty of a constellation should be determined by the activities successful combat being a large part performed in the constellation."
"there will always be times when one side is online and another isn't, and any sov system - including the current one - allows actions to be taken by each side in that situation. acknowledging time zone issues isn't a flaw, it's a necessity."
"i support thisboosting defenders side again is not the way to go. i thought we all learned from cynojammers and stuff, that it helps small alliances to survive, but it makes bigger alliances nearly invulnarable. so how should smaller alliances ever get space? boosting defence makes eve more static and booring.reducing the effort for reconnaissance, the need for scouts and intel isn't a good way to bring more tactical depths into a game. reducing intel to a quick glance into a logfile and connecting it to bacon or similar lame makro **** is boring in the ages of jumpbridges, logistics are easy as hell. making them easier and removing the need for \"carebears\" does not concur with the \"3 layers\".considering the reclaim time, surprise attacks on tactical structures are impossible and fight would be about blobbing contested gates.the contestet gate stuff is a pure defence boost. if a gate falls should give either:a advantage for attackers for holding a gate. just neutralising a colour is an extra step to break sov and is no real benefitb drawback for defenders for loosing a gate. just making pos stuff attackable is no drawback, because it is the situation as it is now.so please no more defender boosts. make eve more dynamic again."
"i dont like the ideas that make 0.0 warfare even more in the favor of the defender. moving out jammers,jbs and co to none defended points and have to fight for them is actually a great idea and u then have to do something to keep ur comfort alive that u gain from these structures.i would like a change in the gate system, so that if the enemy claims not just contest 100% of the gates in a system, every tower of the defender should go into reinforce. this would make cap blobs not the only way to deal with poses after a system is already in the hand of the enemy it takes 48h to claim a gate, that should have give the defender more than enough time, to bring back control over at least 1 gate. it will make it possible for small entities to fight for 0.0 space, even if they cant field a big dread fleet to take down a defended deathstar."
"there are definitely arguments to be made against too great a benefit in defender advantage, but also in favor of providing interesting tools for defenders to encourage ship to ship combat.i do think that the level of defender advantage under this model is pretty tweakable, both in terms of the exact numbers on specific benefits and what the benefits are tied to. at the basic level the idea is to introduce a constellation-wide small gang vs small gang battle into the formula for territory control as well as taking system-wide benefits out of the pos and putting them into tactical arrays in open space.i'd be interested in hearing more about what people think appropriate levels of defender advantage are.the philosophy that went into the distribution of benefits under the op is that an attacker begins their invasion of the defender's territory by dispatching small gangs to spread throughout the defender's territory and begin a campaign of contesting claimed gates. if the defender cannot either hold their borders and destroy these small gangs or keep up in the maintenance of the contested gates, vulnerabilities begin to appear within specific systems, where the tactical arrays can then be targeted by the attacker.i'll also point out that this model was created under the assumption that cynojammer arrays will be incompatible with jump bridge arrays - which is another topic entirely but one that seems to be on track to happen."
"i really like what i've read here so far. i support! i wish i could add my own perspective on the matter, but being that i'm a new pilot with zero null-sec experience, i don't have much to say."
"if you add advantages but please no bacon 2.0 for defenders, there should also be risks in taking gates, so that the defender has the choice to enjoy the advantages and take some risk or leave the gates neutral. that would be one option.i would like gates to be something like frontlines. if your stuff is within your frontline, you have bonuses, if your stuff is behind the frontline, you should have drawbacks or the attacker should have advantages. i like the idea of \"conquerable\" gates, but this new feature should add more dynamic into gameplay, it should be no additional feature for fortress building."
"current system has defender advantage about right.in fact, only thing really wrong with the current system is that ccp's severs can't support it."
"why does it not surprise me that the goons are against this idea?"
"why should the attacker waste their with small gangs instead of just blobbing it up?"
"because 10 ships can capture a stargate as quickly as 50 or 100, it's faster to divide up. an attacker might choose to blob and contest gates one at a time depending on how they expect the defender to react, but they can cover more ground more quickly acting as independent teams."
"besides small changes, i don't see a real effect on current blobbfare. just a 3rd barrier gatecontrol is added to conquer space, which doesn't include blobbing. besides separating tactical modules from pos i support this! game mechanics nearly stay the same. you have single points of interests pos, modules which you blobb one by one. it doesn't fix the primary problem. boring blobbfare."
"your proposal introduces another layer of pointless chores on top of pos warfare without fixing 0.0's underlying problems. no 0.0-holding alliance, no matter how large or small, is going to enjoy staring at potentially dozens of gates for 30 minutes every 24 hours. the only people this proposal would help would be empire- or npc 0.0-based roaming gangs who want to **** up conquerable 0.0 space but have no long-term plans to hold it. this isn't going to open up space for newbie alliances in 0.0. big alliances will still find ways to hold onto their excessively large territories under your proposal, no matter how many ridiculous hoops it forces them to jump through. until 0.0 resource distribution is addressed, the game will continue to force 0.0 alliances to hold huge territories to survive and grow. throwing new structures at the problem isn't going to make room for new alliances in 0.0 or suddenly make existing alliances give up large fleet warfare.roaming gangs and small scale warfare absolutely need bigger roles in 0.0, but conquerable 0.0 mechanics should be designed primarily to benefit people who live in/want to live in conquerable 0.0, not npc 0.0 and empire dwellers out to make conquerable 0.0 as miserable as possible. can you point out one real benefit that your proposal would give a 0.0 alliance/potential 0.0 alliance? because it sounds like a lot of mind-numbing work for no reward. it's not going to promote small scale warfare - if 3 tactical arrays need to be killed, big alliances will send in 3 fleets of 100.i realize i'm in goonswarm so i'm biased, but honestly any reasonable changes to 0.0 will be pretty good for goonswarm and bob and ra and all the other top alliances by definition. if the game didn't reward alliances with numbers, multiple time zone coverage, correctly fit ships, good leadership, and good diplomats, something would be seriously wrong."
"heh goons are doing well with the current balance of power they don't want to fight for their moonz."
"responding to the above points:keep in mind that this isn't just adding a layer on top of the current pos sov system, it is also redistributing many of the sovereignty benefits currently gained through pos construction into these two new systems. destroying pos is still the final blow to an alliance's infrastructure, but an alliance's ability to exert control over their territory is now dependent on their small scale subcapital pvp ability as well - something i'd argue is indeed a benefit to sitting alliances, assuming they have members that enjoy small gang pvp.and because it isn't just adding a layer or barrier to entry but actually redistributing sov benefits across three layers, it opens up the battle for territory control to a multiple front system where each front governs a different portion of the defender advantages.this proposal doesn't confer any particular advantage or disadvantage to small alliances or large ones. it just takes the currently linear nature of territorial combat and decentralizes portions of it, as well as hinges several of the broad benefits of sovereignty on player population activities within the claimed territory. any alliance of any size that can maintain a consistent in-space pilot presence in an area will be competitive under this system, such that the territory controlled via captured stargates will reflect the active in-space population of the claiming alliance."
"maybe because we have spent years more than you in 0.0 and know what the real issues are unlike the op and yourself.because you know we hold like 8 regions which 90% of the systems are **** compared to high sec mission running. this is the core issue that alliances need massive amounts of space to get space decent enough to live in. if you reduce the space people need to live make it more worthwhile which i can't see any reason it shouldn't be more worthwhile than highsec missions and make pos more like small outposts it would easily allow smaller corporations the ability to live in 0.0."
"lol you want to keep it super easy to defend and make 0.0 more profitable heh, nice balance there chap!"
"i see no reason why this proposal can't include an analysis of how much population 0.0 space needs to be able to support vs. how much population is generally required to hold it - that kind of input would be a great thing to add and i'd be happy to include some general recommendations that the economic viability of 0.0 space be readdressed. part of the purpose of developing a new sovereignty system based on player population is to avoid vast swaths of unpopulated space. perhaps claimed territory could even offer financial benefits greater than unclaimed territory."
"this statement is a \"tell\" that you are completely clueless and have no idea what is going on. nice alt troll post btw."
"you just have to look at what 0.0 can provide that lowsec and highsec can't.rare moon mineralshigh-end oresofficer geardeadspace gearthe average ratter can make more running level 4s in highsec on an alt in an npc corp than by ratting in 0.0 on their main. the 'real' money to be made in 0.0 is tied to the selling of things that have a capped demand. 0.0 makes money when empire and lowsec folks buy that stuff from people who live in 0.0.so ccp needs to have their pet economist look at the total revenue from the sales of those items, not including sales that end up right back in 0.0. then subtract out the amount of money spent on maintaining 0.0 empires: pos-related costs, jump fuel costs, costs for building ships to defend space, etc. then divide the remainder by the number of people living in 0.0. the per-capita income needs to exceed the per-capita income of highsec mission runners; otherwise we're all better off financially running missions in safety.there's no way to really do the math when alts and multiple accounts are considered, besides the fact that a huge amount of high-value moon mins end up in stuff that is destroyed in 0.0 fleet flights anyway it just goes through jita first so we can pay the salestax moneysink.how about they keep making the space more and more worthwhile every patch, and we'll know they've got right when there's never a time when a 0.0 empire isn't getting attacked by a newcomer trying to take that valuable, valuable space. when it becomes universally more advantageous to attack your neighbor for his space than to hold hands and live in peace."
"the benefits you are talking are not worth fighting for, at least for the defender. pretty much everyone would just wait them out. it would not encourage alliances to defend systems, because there would not be any serious long-term financial risk. the risk is there only if you can potentially lose the stations/poses, meaning the enemy is bringing in big fleets with caps against you...you would need something like 100-200 people to keep a 10+ gang 23/7 and have the gates in something like 5 system on your side. at what do you get for that? very bored pilots and the defender needs to use a bit more fuel for poses and reroute their jumpbridges."
"there is no financial damage in the stargate capture layer, but disrupting a defender's stargate network creates vulnerabilities in their tactical arrays and pos networks - as well as increasing the fuel costs for pos. i'm not sure what you mean with your example - there's no reason an attacker would need to sit on a gate 23/7. the better strategy would be to continue moving through a defender's territory and contest more gates, to strain a defender's ability to recapture them, draw their small ship forces out into the open for potential ambush, and wear eventually wear holes in the defender's stargate network to generate opportunities to strike at tactical arrays and pos."
"the first thing i noticed when reading this thread, is that everyone patting kelsin on the back and giving him dap for his \"totally awesome\" idea, are in corps and alliances i've never heard of and have absolutely no political sway in the 0.0 arena. i find this telling.that said, this proposal does nothing, absolutely nothing, to fix the real problems in 0.0. jade seems to think it's unreasonable for us to ask that people who don't participate in 0.0 warfare not post four page long proposals on how to completely change an aspect of the game we participate in, yet it's quite clear from this proposal that the poster really has no idea how deep space warfare or politics works. if anything, this proposal makes many of the problems in 0.0 worse.basically, to solve the problem of pos warfare boredom, you've introduced even more boredom. instead of trying to string people out, and force them to sit on gates needlessly for huge chunks of time, we should be finding ways to make attack and defense faster, more brutal. there should be serious penalties for not being able to defend your strategic infrastructure. perhaps introduce some shadowbane style scheduling so that alliances of different time zones can coordinate for weekend battles, but make the act of not defending your infrastructure more painful, more quickly. as it exists today, using \"blue balls\" to bore a large invading alliance in to leaving you alone is a viable tactic. if you put up enough pos's, and make them chew through them while you don't defend, you can go long stretches of time without losing anything valuable, and perhaps cause the attacker to simply get bored and leave.this is what needs to be fixed in 0.0. if you don't defend your space, you should lose it, much more rapidly than you do today. perhaps some changes to the way reinforced works could facilitate something like this. if you actually show to defend, then you should be able to hold out for longer periods of time. the best defended nations in the world would fall in short order if there were no defenders to man the figurative battlements.along this line of thought, holding 0.0 space needs to be made worth defending your strategic locations. if getting booted back to empire is \"not so bad\", then changing all the 0.0 mechanics in the world isn't going to solve the boring pos warfare problem."
"it's faster, and it's massively easier to counter. if a few people from any one gang die, the rest of the gang's time is completely wasted. one half-competent drive-by ends your capture attempt. never mind that, as i've previously stated, you're affixing people in one small area for an extended period while placing no restriction on the opposition. your multiple \"time-saving\" gangs can be countered by one mobile defence team. a well organised one of which would probably include a nice mix of dps, ewar, tackling and repair, and would probably outnumber your capture gang about 2:1. your gangs will need to be bigger to defend against it, meaning they'll use even bigger gangs to fight you and woo-hoo, a spiralling blob war.besides which, you still haven't explained why the defender should even waste their time reacting. nothing happens immediately, so just let the attackers send their small gangs to do nothing for 30-60 minutes. when they leave, you can just pop in and reclaim them in half the time. the only way to avoid it would be turning gatecamps into semi-permanent affairs, and one thing the game doesn't need more of is hanging around doing sweet **** all while you wait for an arbitrary timer to count down.reduce the conversion-time to make the retaking of gates more urgent: kill single time-zone alliances. leave it as it is: kill single time zone alliances.i still have not seen a single explanation from you about how this makes smaller corps more capable, or how being forced to spend hours just sitting on a gate would in any way make the game more entertaining."
"you mean we are supposed to make more money on highsec mission alts than in space that we can lose? *shock and horror*this is why you should not be allowed to post on the topic if you clearly have no grasp on what the situation is."
"if it \"super easy to defend\" for goonswarm, why is it not \"super easy to defend\" for everyone else?:snypa:"
"perhaps you should address the contents of the op's post instead of dismissing it out of hand because it mentioned a dev you dislike? or better yet, perhaps you should not reply to threads whose contents you have neglected to read a single jot concerning."
"on the assumption that the scope of the proposal will be redefined along the lines as discussed above, supported."
"fair enough... you asked for it. the above is a completely unsubstantiated claim. name names please, or this is just self-serving spin to justify a vague agenda. also, weren't the same or very similar carrier \"issues\" already brought-up before and then voted against?so, who exactly is this \"silent majority\" again? isn't this just a big fancy nerf for older players who have already spent the time years to train-up for carriers? o.k. so carriers need a specific role, i can see and probably agree with that, but what role exactly? windjammer pretty much sums it up for me too and it seems like the op is merely \"venue shopping\". there are no clear boundaries presented here, and it would seem the op is simply looking for carte blanche to change things which are not well-defined. i guess if it all got changed and things went badly, ccp could always point at the csm and say \"but, you asked for it\".before the csm gets behind any new nerfs, or buffs, or more junkets to iceland, how about pressuring/begging ccp to fix the things that are actually broken? i am of course talking about lag and desyncs. i'd like these real problems to be the #1 priority and focus with ccp since these seem to be somewhere around the #8 or #12 priority at the moment."
"what makes you think that goonswarm is not susceptible to this nerf?"
"i've complained about this a few times, and we've already seen a decrease in time for dictor bubbles. but i think it's time to take another look at these ships.firstly, you now have heavy dictors which imo are much more balanced for what they can do. they get great tanks, but their effects die with their ships.the current problem with dictors is they drop a huge sphere warp disruption that can bubble huge chunks of a fleet. even if the ship dies, their effect lingers either until you can mwd out of it, which takes huge amounts of time, or until the bubble drops, up to 2 minutes after the dictors death. the ships are cheap and very disposable, making thier suicidal tendencies even greater, and ships are still allowed to warp on grid, which is probably the most ghetto feature in game as it's too easy to warp to wrecks i'd have less issue with ship to ship warping staying.so the fix:dictor base speed increase back to original values. this should become their primary defense again, while not being overly powered as the speed nerf comes in.2 bubblescurrent dictor bubble: timer 10 secvolume 1radius 20kmnew bubble:timer 2 minvol 10radius 2.5-5kmlauncher:rof 10secvolume 20reload 30secthis means the dictor now relies more on it's own survival than before. it's bubble selection will dictate more of how much of an effect it can have. the longer duration bubble can still work on gates if the dictor is placed in allingment, the shorter and longer bubble can both be used for podding.volume and reload would affect mass spamming, but still allow a good coverage with the larger bubble.essentially, what this does is remove 1 ship from being the catchall of support in small combat and fleets. right now, most fleets gear around 2 ships, bs and dictors. all other ships seem to be lost because tackling is left strictly to dictors."
"thank god there's no lag in eve, that would really have made this change unviable."
"i fail to see how a ship that isn't insurable and costs 20mil+ is cheap."
"pretty much."
"have you played this game lately? i like this arguement, an alliance brags about alliance funded dreads replaced on a whim, and they complain about a 20mil isk ship."
"yes, b/c lag doesn't work in both ways.... good job, cookie for you."
"this idea and person are stupid is hurts.ship to ship warps are bad? wtc you smoking do you even know how to play this game?"
"not everyone gets their ship from the alliance, nor should you be encouraging a change that would render the cheaper version of heavy dictors totally unviable for larger fleets.you still need to explain what's so fundamentally broken about small, fast ships being able to drop bubbles that persist beyond the existence of their own ship - especially because the bubbles can, and usually do, trap the dictor and, importantly, their pod that dropped them.a couple of things that you apparently don't realise:- battleships should never take longer than ten seconds to align if you know how to manage your mwd, so a ten second bubble is utterly meaningless in the context of pretty much any fight. if its usefulness is so entirely dependent on heavy lag, then good god i'm glad you have no say in the development of this game.- fleets are never so tightly concentrated that you can bubble them with the smaller, 2 minute bubble. even gangwarping them to a single point will result in their being dispersed over a greater area than the bubble would cover, unless the dictor's timing and placement are absolutely perfect.- if you're suggesting a change where the longer, two minute bubble is incapable of tackling anything for more than ten seconds hey, even a rorqual will be able to traverse it in less time than it takes the bubble to expire, you're rendering the ship utterly useless except for gatecamps - which are one aspect of pvp that arguably needs to be deemphasised."
"good job reading, i think i said those could stay, get rid of wrecks, next."
"furthermore, why shouldn't 10-12 dictors be required to work more together rather than the theme be burn for the middle, drop and pray.next"
"because we have worked hard to provide expensive things to our alliance, and believe me they are expensive. we should believe they are because we can do it? mr churchill believed the war against germany would be winnable, he did not believe it would be cheap."
"they will do exactly the same thing, but more often with your suggestions. this is ridiculous."
"and how does that argue against dictor effects being changed at all?"
"one dictor is never enough to tackle a capital or support fleet entirely independently, because it'll never survive against a competent support fleet.unless you're the kind of alliance that likes to cyno their titans 300km off capital fleets without anything to support them. they might survive that."
"it is an argument against your premise of them being cheap. which is a main premise of your argument. just because your enemy has worked hard to provide a weapon against you does not mean that because they have that means it is cheap. if it were cheap the requiem would have a program of their own, but since you don't this point is mute and clearly just an argument to change the game to your own advantage when you cannot do so ingame."
"it's not about 1 dictor, it's about 8-10 doing the job of 30 support. people newer to this game don't seem to remember the day the frigate class actually did something in fleets more than zoom around like tards."
"this has nothing to do with our current war, in fact, i'll gladly go find about 10-12 past history post on this same topic from myself. the fact that it's been proposed now is strictly coincidence.honestly, pl deserves praise for the use of heavy dictors in fleet lately, b/c they've been quite good with them."
"well, you need to tell me how you anticipate dictors being able to coordinate at the level you'd like them to in the sometimes laughably high lag that you've already accepted exists. once you've done that, you need to deal with - ohidon'tknow - everything else that's been said in this thread regarding the time it takes to traverse those bubbles, the ability of dictors to survive against a support fleet and maybe, if you have time, you could even respond to the titan burn.that said, i think there's probably a deeper reason why you posted this thread. have your tacklers not been responding to the pep talks anymore?"
"i'm not sure davey. i think you need to take a long hard look at yourself and decide whether you really belong in 0.0."
"i could care less if i kill a tech one goon frigate, as long as i'm getting kills. every kill is a kill."
"well the idea is to not have equal fights, it draws them into your game more. they can't cloak if you make em chase you, so don't fight them, but kill them every chance you get. do you have any questions about that?"
"lag can't be the argument b/c no ship can coordinate in high lag, it's just a crap shoot. you can't design a game around lag."
"nice post, broheim."
"ya, this idea is pretty terrible. first, dictors go slow because they pre-nerf could catch some interceptors thus making interceptors obsolete. ask for anything other than speed and that is worth considering, but no to +speed on dictors.small 2.5-5km bubble is useless. if you have ever been in a large fleet you should know it is quite impossible to put that many targets in a 2.5km sphere, even a 3 bs gang would get out of a 2.5km sphere without even trying.a cool new bubble would be a 30 second 30-35km bubble or a 10-15km 5 minute bubble. i could see situations where i would use such bubbles, but i can never see a situation where i would want a short range bubble. your comment ahout fleets being only made up of bs and dictors shows your ignorance in actual ingame combat. sure those ships are needed the most, but instead of reading your alliance op mail, actually join in the battle and see what actually happens on the fiedl of play."
"you're probably not aware of this but luckyduck is a former bob fleet commander who became infamous for a \"pep talk\" he gave to rise shortly before the fall of rit-. he left bob during the delve campaign a while back to join requiem hahahahahahahahaha."
"in any amount of lag at all, the small bubble is utterly worthless unless your dictor is stationary at the time you drop it, because even a one second delay between your keyboard and the server will have you overshooting the target. and a 10-second large rebubble is grossly overpowered as it lets you reposition a new bubble to account for the target's movements every 10 seconds, making it impossible for large ships to burn out.plus, as mentioned by another poster, returning dictors to their original speed is to completely sideline interceptors and t1 frigates, for that matter in 0.0 combat, because that is what was happening before their speed was cut."
"don't really agree with this at all. i don't really see why something that isn't broken should be fixed.the reason warp disruption probes sit out there for so long even if a dictor dies is because they are probes. a hictor's bubble is powered from the ships own grid, it does not launch the bubble. a normal interdictor launches a self powered probe. it's only common sense that the probe it launches will be self powered and last more than 10 seconds.i do agree to an extent that dictors are slightly overpowered for what they do but i can't honestly see any realistic way of nerfing them. infact, the only thing i can see as a decent addition to the interdictor is to make the deployment of a bubble aggressive to prevent them from jumping out. i know if someone tries to warp inside a dictor bubble that gives aggro, but a dictor should be aggroed before that even happens.also agree with the guy above. returning dictors to their previous speed is an absolutely rediculous idea for the reasons mentioned - they would make interceptors and t1 frigs completely obsolete.sorry yaay, just really don't agree with you on this one."
"how about a really simple way of fixing a problem taht imo doesnt exist, make the probes shootable? but make it either have a really low sig radius so it takes time to lock or give it a largish amount of hp"
"i don't think luckyduck is a smart man. i think he is wrong."
"objectively i have to give this idea a thumbs up.i guess the occasional spark of brilliance can come from even the basest form of life in eve."
"good idea. there's more to a pod pilots life than yarr. some are just too scared to realize it ;?j"
"this."
"only if a variety of dance emotes come along with it.it'll be the swg cantina all over again.oh, and it makes for good viral videos as well."
"its not somethign we need but would be fun fluff once the main elements of the add on are in place."
"no, no ,no, no.. and no. it brings nothing to eve, and besides, i can'tremember last time i played eve with sound active..."
"they really should work on that."
"jesus god almighty yes yes and yes again!!!"
"i likes"
"support. some pod pilots, such as myself, would enjoy lighter pursuits when not murdering thousands of helpless crew members or buying and selling the value of a small planet.also, the only arguments against so far are those levelled against ambulation itself; \"resources lol\" and \"but i don't want it\"."
"i like!"
"don't do copying, but given game balance issues then i support this thread."
"a small but good request!"
"thanks for ignoring the critical \"and lo\" bit. o_obgod damn, son, you didn't read the op either."
"now that all the goons have voted:no, it's ment to add diversity of ships. carrier gaining this effect again would limit the amount of use of rouqals and jump freighters b/c people w/carriers would solo haul every thing rather than actually train for freighters or ask for help. why waste time and money on a virtually undefendable ship to move that valuable cargo when you can run a carrier and defend better."
"way to read the op."
"maybe just make it so haulers cant have anything in cargo but other ships can?either way, supporting"
"as long as it's cheaper to haul mass quantities of stuff via jump freighter/rorqual, they will still see use. my carrier alt trained up jump freighters for this very reason. carrier got hit hard with the nerf, as it pulled much of the intended ship hauling functionality out of the carrier and also eliminated much of the isk making potential you got from having one in deep 0.0 space. if you're going to rat in 0.0 and are smart you don't use a carrier. ccp intended jf's for large alliances, so what are the smaller alliances supposed to utilize?"
"with the added ship cargo and the jump distance bonus, a carrier would easily replace a rouqal with this change. if they say hey, ok, sure, but no haulers, then i'd support it."
"approved"
"correction i supported the vne damage effects in this thread on the first page not the other thread."
"lmaoyou amuse me. i dont think i have ever met someone so self adsorbed and convoluted in my life.good luck with that. edit: theres always air huh? keep toking on that hookah. it will solve every thing for ya."
"again you attack me and tell me that i am the problem.vacuuma vacuum is a volume of space that is essentially empty of matter, such that its gaseous pressure is much less than atmospheric pressure. [1] the word comes from the latin term for \"empty,\" but in reality, no volume of space can ever be perfectly empty. a perfect vacuum with a gaseous pressure of absolute zero is a philosophical concept that is never observed in practice.keep making yourself look stupid rezaa."
"against....we need some variety"
"nikon i meant drones :d"
"this. i'll give my support to this thread for this sentence alone. the devs are nuking speed far to hard and way beyond reason, yes, that is a travesty against the entire player base.but, at the same time they are nuking maneuverability even harder.doing one is the worst idea they have ever had. doing both makes me seriously worry about the \"balance\" team's sanity.also, i don't see any of the speeds that are listed by the op that are unreasonable.bottom line: \"balance\" devs, if you need to perform game killing modifications like these, do only one at a time. that way eve might have a slim chance of survival. but, a double shot like this falls directly into the old assassins' credo: \"two to the head, you know their dead.\" these two ideas, together, are like two directly to eve's crown.make the right choice devs..... choose life."
"hmm. i know that a lot of people loved the feeling of flying a fighter, and that the speed was entertaining. but does anyone wander why the devs are trying to make this change?sure, many will be too simple, and will only say 'because of the whiners'. but that's only those dense idiots who can't read between the lines.devblog mentioned that their physics engine was going haywire when ships got up to speed. seems to me that their choices were to rework the entire physics engine, or nerf the modules that allowed ships to go at that speed.i may be completely wrong, but eve has had a background of show ship combat. speed and being top gun is fun, sure. but these developers who have been managing and improving a great game for five years now might have a sincere reason for changing such an enjoyable portion of the game.so many assumptions made on all of our parts. the ones i see most commonly by the naysayers are that devs are trying to kill the game, or they don't play it, or they are out to get you. it's as pitiful as listening to your dad complain about who stole the remote."
"hard limits are dumb. just lower polycarbons to the same as aux thrusters, and lower the speed boost given by pirate implants and boosters. possibly lower skirmish gang-links slightly. oh look i just fixed nano."
"these are not speed limits, just a speed guideline for ships of a certain class speed fitted with rigs, but, without faction, boosters, gangs or snakes etc"
"hmm... i totaly agree that pvp should not die and it sure will not die because of only a group of players. pvp is what's eve all about! but, there is an idea that crossed my mind that could maybe solve your problem:corp a is your kind of corp - mining, hauling, not attacking anyone and that kind of stuff. corp b is a big bad wolf declaring war on your corp just to fill their killboards with easy pickings. my idea is that corp b can only declare war on corp a if someone from corp a attacked someone from corp b. now let's see where this leads us. miners and haulers from corp a are totaly secure in high-sec, thus being able to enjoy their game. in low-sec, members of corp a are not so secure, because even if a war could not be declared someone could attack them at any time, but again, since the war couldn't be declared they would be safe again if they move to high sec. also, attacking someone from corp a in low sec will result in standings loss since they are not valid war targets thus protecting them from big bad pvpers with positive sec status or low enough to be able to get into high-sec space. in 0.0 there are no rules there shouldn't be any rules there and i doubt that a friendly poor unprotected miner/hauler would even consider going there.this is just my opinion.enjoy your game"
"all pvp in eve is consentual.your idea is crap. but if it were to go live we should implement the reverse after all. corp a is a bunch of wealthy industrialists corp b is a group of starving pirates.because corp b has not sold anything to corp a at greatly inflated rates corp a may only sell things at base mineral cost +10% to corp b. any items marked higher than that are rerated because the two corps have not agreed to a buying war.now corp b can fight in peace knowing they won't be slaughtered in the pvp market arena.-galan"
"how about this: corp a decs corp b, and they fight. but corp b also has alt corp c that provides them with the resources to fight; by your suggestion, corp c is invulnerable while still providing war support to b. a is massively disadvantaged."
"epic"
"an epic and bad line, but the truth nonetheless. eve is a niche game because it is difficult and because of it's basis in open pvp.ccp has, over the last several years, opened the gates of eve to a larger audience, by first making high-security, and since reinforcing greifing laws. which is why we don't have a 5k playerbase, and which is why fully half the playerbase stay excusively in high-sec.the players who enjoy pvp see these 'carebears' as nothing but fun targets and tears. they don't see that, without them, the game they enjoy so much would lose over half it's income. they also don't see the large percentage of so-called 'pvpers' who would leave the game, players who aren't looking for pvp, only for an easy grief, and who wouldn't find any interest in a carebear-free world where the only opponent has teeth and is willing to use them.i think the real issue is that pvp should progress so that players can become comfortable with it, but also so that they never get it in their head that eve is anything but a pvp game. no huge barrier between low and high sec. no more allowing players to think that they can be completely free of pvp.wardecs are a different matter. they are completely biased towards griefers, they rarely are used in high sec, at least for anything other than farming carebear tears, and they are unbalanced. but you can't remove them completely, without adding a substitute method for introducing pvp into high-sec."
"you consent to pvp when you subscribe. you are a pvper, because you play eve. you're jsut not a very good one."
"hugs not slugs people"
"troll. 3/10."
"sukio,taking you at your word that this has happened and it doesn't surprise me at all as i've been on the receiving end there are options.first of all - ccp has already mentioned that the wardec system is going to be re-worked as currently it amounts to a 'pay to grief' plan. so to some extent your plea was heard even before you made it. others have been where you are.fixing it, however, will take awhile and, game design being what it is, may not 'take' the first time around.despite what many of the more silly people i saw posted, eve is not \"pvp only\" nor is pvp 'purely consensual'. that can only be said to be true if playing the game is considered to be 'consent'. however a certain amount of non consensual pvp will always be part of eve and, in fact, really needs to be.your best response against these guys is actually to roleplay it. imagine the ccp wardec fix as something meandering through the halls of yulai's legislative board and take action as your character would based on what you're presented with.a bunch of scum have wardecced you. pleas to the authorities, even if they do not fall on deaf ears, will take time. possibly lots of it.what to do?you've already said you don't want to fight. that's fine. there are many merc corps happy to do that for you. consider hiring one of them. if that isn't an option then you must consider ones which don't involve combat. one is to simply move to an area which lacks this kind of griefer. i can tell you of a few where you will be welcome. they may not be as lucrative, but without the hassle you'll probably wind up both happier and with more isk than with the hassle. if changes go through, you can always go back.the other option is to scatter for awhile into npc corps and come back later on. wait out the griefers as they will get bored with no targets.try some of those and see if one is a good fit. i hope this helps some and you are able to resolve things to your satisfaction."
"if your having trouble with hisec griefers, hire someone to defend you.being a carebear corp you should be able to afford that."
"hey jarvis, great post! what a way to handle this issue with maturity and actually post something helpful to the op."
"agree :after a carefull consideration of my own idea, i have to agree with you also. well, it looks like the best solution is:a:b:a:+=b:"
"no support, quite simply the titan is not a mobile station and never should be. if as you state ccp wanted it to be that way they would have made it a totally diferent ship to what it is now.i have no problem with looking at the ddd issue, discussion could be enlightening personally i have no problem with it, and looking to make the titan generally more of a logistical tool but you are yet again asking for permission to change whatever you want to suggest without really giving us a set of parameters to make a conscious choice between.it also makes me laugh when you quote \"the overwhelming attitude amoung 0.0 players\" and yet we only have 4 pages of discussion...obviously an overwhelming amount of comments on the subject.rather than make suggestions to nerf the ddd abilites how about nerfing cyno jammers which the majority of titans hide behind!my two-penneth"
"a doomsday weapon is supposed to be a last-ditch attempt to take the enemy down with you.as such the doomsday, in my humble opinion, should do a lot more damage, but should also completely obliterate the titan using it. this way, when your titan is about to go pop you can ensure that the fleet taking it down suffers too."
"reading lavista vista's posts really made my day. nande yanen, do run for the csm next election. it would be nice to have someone that actually knows what he's talking about."
"this proposal is preposterous in the extreme. people devoted a very significant portion of skill training, vast mineral resources, vast monetary expenditures and a significant amount of time waiting for it to finish being constructed.they did this in order fly what the titan is now in it's current state.they did not train all of these skills and spend vast amounts of resources for a mobile space station.this is a resoundingly poor proposal.changes do need to be made to the titan, but changing the very essence of what the ship does will alienate the players who had no intentions of one day flying a mobile pos."
"supporting this."
"when the titan was originally conceived by ccp, they meant for it to be a gigantic fleet support craft.they gave it a ddd, just so it could have a special attack.then players made too much damned money, and mass produced titans.now they bring a dozen \"death stars\" to a battle, and spam dd until everything is dead. now titans are a fleet annihilation craft.players training up for them aren't training for the ship as it was intended. they are training up to be one of 12 or more pilots to drop a titan onto the blob fight.fixing the titan with such a drastic change is completely warranted, given the apparent lack of self-control by players. if they can so blatantly abuse the system with extreme overkill... then it's up to ccp to take that source away."
"interesting ideas and certainly would make the ship more useful. make ddd a defensive option that can only be fit and fired while in station mode.edit: this is from another thread but i thought it might be a good idea. make the destruction of a titan in station/command center mode part of a definitive win condition of a war dec."
"so, in short, turn it into a death star!!!and thus, supported."
"so wait, your argument is that ccp should do what youand those who share your opinion want, and ignore the desires of meand those who share my opinion?who the **** are you to decide whose opinion is more important than anyone else's? arrogant much?"
"solar flares tend to be very common"
"i like this idea in theory, but please be careful about it. the only places you can really put them are gates or stations since people don't really have much cause to go elsewhere. if you put them in missions you'll only upset the mission runner crowd since it'll make repetitive missions even more tedious. anyway, maybe if they appear in high-sec, concord or some other empire fleet will come and clean up; low-sec wouldn't have that luxury so things might be interesting down there.i'm just tossing ideas around here. personally, i think low-sec is dangerous enough but i'm a carebear so what do i know? are you for real?of course he thinks his opinion is better than yours. if he didn't, he wouldn't have posted against you. this is how and why arguments, discussions and negotiations happen.you made a point disagreeing with the op, citing realism in space to be honest, wow is more realistic than eve. he refuted or merely rejected, if you prefer that point, saying that eve is a game rather than a simulation and that fun should take precedence over faithfully remodelling a vacuum.perhaps i'm prudish, but i don't consider your remark to be terribly polite.who the **** are you to decide that posting a rebuttal constitutes a personal attack? arrogant much?"
"i like this idea. obviously there are tons of considerations to take into mind when designing it, but i sure like the thought of environmental dangers."
"poor poor poor jita alts... just think of the magnetic storms in that area. notice i approve."
"space whales!!!"
"a rebuttal is all well and good, but when i see the words \"get over yourself\" i tend to interperate them as a personal attack. but perhaps that's just me. not sure why that's arrogant, but then again if you hadn't implied that it was, you wouldn't be able to hilariously twist my words."
"perhaps your insecurity is showing through... if you interpret any comment made to be a personal attack against you.perhaps your first post was actually rather arrogant in itself.would have us believe that you yourself have been out there, charting the farthest reaches of distant galaxies... and you know for a fact what does and does not happen regularly.simply displays your own superiority complex... lording your knowledge of the cosmos over we lowly and confused mortals.so perhaps i did intend insult upon you and yours... or perhaps i merely meant to speak upon the topic at hand, that being the added \"space\" content to any otherwise lacking \"space\" video game...perhaps those who participate in these forums should develop a thick skin, before taking offense to any and all contradictions to their input.perhaps..."
"defo got my support!"
"supporting this idea."
"i wonder if the csm is the right way to get this to ccps attention,its simply that gate and station guns shoot drones and remove an amount of drone-requiring ships from pirating.if a hauler gets ganked by a astarte or eos, domi or mega, typhoon or maelstrom doesnt do much difference to him - being able to choose from more ships would be nice tho."
"cant you just have some non drone friends tank the gate guns for you?"
"the guns cycle targets."
"i support this, i loose more drones then we manage to loose ships, so something is wrong"
"well, this idea is just... bad"
"official issue thread for contract improvementsalready being looked at though i don't think your idea is workable as it stands so no support from me for this, though i do believe courier contract improvements are sorely required.adding your thoughts to that thread might be a better idea than creating a new thread as it'll likely have more chance of being considered."
"there's plenty of penalties for theft. if they take your stuff, you keep their collateral. and if you're sensible, the collateral is set about 20% above the value of the cargo, so that you really don't miss it if it goes away."
"isn't this really more of a bug report thing?"
"yes, and when engaging multiple targets in a nano hac it can be very tricky to avoid drifting into web range of any target as the second you do, you die. also, if you bump into anything station, asteroids, other people you are almost instapopped by large guns / missiles, making nano pvp very risky in this sense"
"no, this game has been changing since the day it came out, and it will always continue to change, or it will die. stop being an ignorant twit and grow a brain."
"so please enlighten me that why that qualifies you to speak for the entirety of the eve community?i like playing eve, therefore i represent the majority of eve because the majority of eve plays the game. i is have good smart!"
"#1 30 seconds of cloak time at a gate will not give you enough time to get your buddies to help. all you will end up doing is getting your buddies killed which is what most gate campers want you to do any way. #2 not all stations are like that. some have an insane dock/dock range some as far as 60km. i have seen plenty of folk make it back with in plenty of time. i am not to sure what makes you so special you can't. and if it is a specific station, move.#3 \"guaranteed\" linkage"
"i agree that those who play the docking game are extremely frustrating to deal with. doesn't mean that station ganks should be handed kills as they are at these stations. it would be nice to see some creative idea's to find a balance between the dock/gank problem."
"or we could reduce scan probe launcher cpu from 220 to 100 or even 75 and open up the use of many current models of ships to fill this role.yeah, its that easy."
"or yeah, this would be helpful as well"
"scan launcher cpu reduction is a good idea also : so there are currently 3 solutions that would make exploration a little more fun...any other ideas, or drawbacks/overlooked results if probe launcher cpu reduced or exploration stuff allowed to work whilst cloaked?arithron"
"i for one really hate certain kinds of people.just because you hate certain kinds of people doesn't mean you should be any meaner towards them. but in any case, words are just words. if you get angry because of something that someone you do not know had said in a fairly-anonymous online chatroom... well, let's just say that there are people better than you: better people don't get angry at words.i certainly am against the automatic filtering of chat channels. if it gets abusive, then certainly ask for a moderator gm to intervene. hey, that's how it is now!the game isn't made for children, it's made for adults. if you can't handle words, grow up."
"personally, i do not see where this sort of thing has anything to do here. eve should be as open to cursing, extremism and despicable personalities as any other public forum. why? because eve is a sandbox game. and because it will be all the more satisfying to sink people who express things like that out of the sky.i should say though, that i am not talking about taking this sort of thing to the extreme here. eve is still a game with rules, of course. and forums still have rules as well. but such inoffensive things as cursing, personal bigotry and general stupidity should not really be limited, unless it degenerates into spam or moves up to an organized scale, such as neo-**** corporations, for example.and yes, this is coming from someone who cares very little for political correctness and who can easily be targeted by said bigots. but my common sense and the civilized man in me both say that anyone who has a problem with things like this on such a minor scale and who wants to weed even the slighter signs of bigotry out is likely either oversensitive or a manner of bigot themselves."
"actually, you seem to be the one who has failed to read the first line. it says that its subject to change according to player input. if players are contacting the csm to voice their input.....seems to me that they have a clear understanding of what the first line says. the csm's objective is to represent the players concerns, as you well know, and therefore they have every right to expect you to listen to their concerns.in fact, if you are simply ignoring their concerns in favor of your own priorities, it is you that is not living up to expectations of being a csm and not them that is misusing the csm."
"truth. and its why we made the speed issue number 1 agenda item on sunday. there is very significant player sentiment that the nano-nerf is too much, and would badly damage the 0.0 game at the moment by promoting blobbing and removing a counter. we need to be discussing this and using any influence we do have to ensure the speed-changes are more reasonable and appropriate buffs to guerilla warfare are made at the same time the overall speed penalty comes in."
"you can have it if i can have passive armor regeneration..."
"the enyo is the hands down coolest looking ship in the game. it reminds me of a ducati. however, it doesn't do anything particular well. i only fly it when i want to pick up the femininas.ar"
"the key issue is speed here, and assault frigates are not toned down because they have a low base speed compared to other frigates, but because they often lack midslots, limiting tackling options, and even more significantly they need to use their capacitor reserves for something else than running a microwarpdrive. with the extreme emphasis on speed that has been created due to the use of mwds, this means that afs have been as good as left in the dust, rendered useless due to the fantastic speeds attainable by other ships.the solution? cut mwd efficiency severely, or remove them from the game entirely, and give universal armor bonuses to the afs. we have had pretty much enough of the nano excess by now. the joke's over, ccp. let's make armor resists, missiles and ecm useful once more, and let the element of tactics back into the game."
"my post was not a reply to your darius.however, if the topic regardless of what it is gains enough support it should be looked at. you said it yourself. some csms have been not only proposing and bringing their own ideas before the council and have also been quick to jump on ideas with little to no support from the community while ignoring ideas like ship balencing that gained significant support. then argued that those changes are trivial while their changes are not. so how difficult is adding powergrid to the nighthawk compared to letting people play instruments in ambulation? well the answer is obvious but one is before the council almost without popular support and the other failed at council? one is completely outside the characteristics of the eve universe and the other is blatently obvious in terms of how you cant fit the ship in a way that it is designed to be fitted and come close to competing with the other css. one would throw a huge amount of work on the dev team and the other is editing a single statistic in a file.my point in posting the rights of the player and the voter communications was to show that no where did ccp specify that it had a right to tell the csm what is and isnt important and no where did it say that the csm can determine the relative importance of a matter to the community. it did say it would require a 50% vote but seriously 110k + votes? even the csm has agreed that is over the top so even you have abandoned that idea.as for the csm trying to promote a csm vision of the game it isnt you or lavista and it i bet 9/10 forum dwellers could guess right off which csm it was that keeps spouting it."
"knowing if something is worth breaking into would somewhat defeat the point of a [i]secure[/i can imo."
"agree."
"supporting because it looks good."
"awesome!"
"now that's a pos./signed!"
"supported"
"i find the 5% remote rep bonus useless and its lack cap stablity, makes the nidhogger terrible the archon out tanks and is much more cap friendly. the fact it armour tanks dosn't bother me the fact the archon is better at remote repping in pre-longed engagements does."
"anyone know when they will make this improvement i have a minny cap now but have not trained for the cit torps yet. if they change that i would like to know asap so i dont have to. if they dont change it. i may just train for the gallente dread. even know the minny one looks awsome."
"you want me to online how many guns?"
"i agree the issue needs to be looked into and something needs to be done to make the arduous task of setting up poss easier or at least less tedious than they currently are. its one thing to take a long time to set up but its another to make on of the few directors in each corp be responsible for 8 hrs of mindnumbing clicking and sliding mods around."
"i tried using nano curse, ishtar, and vaga on test: curse and ishtar died incredibly fast against anything with missiles, vaga lasted longer but still died fairly quick, definitly too quick to do any real damage"
"definatly against this \"nano\" nerf"
"good, about time the elitist pvpers have to replace t2 ship losses on a regular basis rather than get easy ganks. i hope ccp nerf pvp further in future patches and cater for the long suffering silent majority of eve and buff up pve in many areas."
"i am all for a nano nerf but these changes go way, way, way beyond that. please don't do this. not as specced out on sisi anyway."
"people please go on sisi and see the diffrence. a vaga can reach just under 3km/s without i repeat without snakes. all is not lost for the nano. 3km/s coupled with a decent passive shield tank will make for a decent ship, not the beast it was before but still a useful vessel. balancing is required and i think this just might work, nano gangs can still break through gate camps with minimal losses, but now its not suicidal to go against a nano gang with no-nano ships"
"same here; nerfing eve to nerf nanos is wrong wrong wrong, change as little as possible to knock the nanos down a peg, don't change the whole damned game./signed again and to remind people once more, a large stacking penalty boost is in order, with changes to min and max speeds for ships like the vaga and perceived too fast ships, not this insane, blaster boat killing, minmatar slaughtering, mwd demolishing nerf bat with spikes. thats all it takes is some small changes to specific things, which narrows mistakes even further. ccp is bringing a sledge hammer to attempt a brain surgery."
"well with ccp giving us its latest balancing, i feel if i continue playing i will be reduced to hog tying my enemies only going 1m/s while chucking rocks out my cokpit windsheildfirmly against"
"i dont like this nano nerf at all... but i do like the added abilities of a scrambler."
"ccp proves yet again they have no clue how to take small steps to a greater good.instead they blanket nerf a race into uselessness."
"i don't really \"nano\", i fit a mwd to my blaster boats, some istabs, overdrives depending on what i am doing. i can see how speed needs to be altered to fix issues with the ships that lie 3 standard deviations out of the mean but hell, this breaks too many things. blaster boats are gonna suck now, missle boats are getting a major boost.... it is just too much. i'm not sure how interceptors will do their job now without being flying coffins.i vote hell no."
"against the changes."
"against."
"definitely against as they stand on sisi"
"i couldn't hit a vaga for **** on the test server yesterday, well i could hit him but it was always for less then 25 damage with cruise's."
"against ! ! !"
"against the change! minmatar ships will become redundant since thier gurilla warefare abilty will hardly make a difference especially the vaga."
"against"
"dont nerf!!"
"againstit is way over the top in its current form, the reasoning behind it is flawed and in the end all it will really do is cater to blobbing"
"against"
"against"
"totally against, ccp are destroying not only the viability on interceptors but they are destroying blaster ships and making missile ships far too overpowered."
"against!!!"
"changed my mind/stopped giving a ****"
"against"
"no quarter to the whiners !"
"omfg... against !!!11"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"50% speed reduction on webs. screw that. plus they are nerfing afterburners. wtf do afterburners have to do with nano-fa ggoty?in a word, ******ed."
"well it was obviously mwding so tell me, for how much was it hitting you? would 0 be about right?"
"no to this ridiculous nerf !!!"
"against the changes as it now on test."
"against!"
"hilarious. look at all the shiny pl and tri alts! keep sending out those alliance-wide evemails, i know you can do it! please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"hilarious. look at all the nooblets making up excuses for them to be losing 2 to 1"
"i m againt of the nano nerf"
"i find it hilarious how yall think you can *persuade* ccp to not do it.its their game, their server, not yours.if you don't like it, well your sol"
"yea i know ccp will do it anyway, but maybes they will regret it once they start losing money"
"against."
"i'm against it. reduce snakes/boosters/gang bonuses/deadspace mwd's slightly... or make them give bonuses to agility instead, but leave the rest of the game alone."
"was raised in today's csm meeting - discussion ensued - chatlog is vote on nano-nerf statement at 16:45feel free to have a read about what was said."
"against the nerf in its current form"
"against"
"against. nanos need a revision but this goes too far."
"against"
"sry, nop"
"against"
"signed/"
"against"
"iam with this."
"a better solution"
"ok so our subscription money is being wasted flying you to iceland to talk about issues that really mater such as musical ****ing instruments? not the game breaking changes the dev's who asume the standard nano pilot has a full set of high grade snakes and t2 rigs.christ almight. i might as well biomass my charicters right now."
"against"
"don't care about skill training while inactive, but i shudder to think how many accounts are only activated once every couple of months, just to collect a mountain of datacores.so don't care about sp, but inactive accounts collecting rp is ridiculous"
"the only problem with removing rp increase on inactive accounts is that it should be done in a fashion that will not block regular rp increase in active accounts. requiring to do the daily mission will change the research agents usage a lot, deactivating rp generation when the account subscription is not payed don't seem so linear to implement as it will require transmission of data between the account management and the game world and that can be a security weakness i think. if that is simple to correct, i am in favor of removing the rp production but not the skill training from inactive accounts."
"the rp collection i agree is somthign that needs to be fixed a simple fix is a time limit in which you ahev to talk to your agent say once a month.however skill finshing when the accounts inactive is fine one of the best bit about the game is its flexabilty around my real life."
"i agree with what a lot of people have already said: expired account rp gain is just stupid. this needs to go. this hurts the economy and i am certain the real money for isk leeches are taking full advantage of it somehow.expired account sp could be argued either way. mostly i side with you shouldn't be able to put sp on an expired account.still, the rp situation deffinately needs looking into, so i'll give the thread my support based on that idea."
"go to hell."
"go to hell."
"go to hell."
"i'm ambivalent about the rp gain aspect but i'll happily offer a firm no to removing sp gain from inactive accounts. i think that was something ccp did well from the start and removing it will hurt eve.also, i would think these are two distinct issues that should have two distinct threads for discussion."
"go back to wow noob!! this is one of the key features of eve."
"ccp seem content to keep shooting themselves in the foot. i see no reason not to go ahead with this."
"supported"
"blah"
"speed rules. but not at the cost of the game."
"supported"
"a semi-level playing field......sign me up"
"after having reviewed the stats, you have my grudging support.however, i think you should adjust a few things like keep high-grade snake implants up to 30%, work to make some ecm alternative like tracking disruptors or sensor dampeners viable to scramble and disable missiles as defender missiles are just a waste, and not beat on the webifiers and overdrive injectors so severely and i will be determinedly continuing to propose alternative means, hoping that the developers will somehow notice."
"supporting."
"fully support"
"support...this game need a change, for too long nano's and high-speed shenanigans have dominated"
"support"
"supported by me and my gazillion alts"
"for the nano change"
"sure why not, account ends on the 6th anyway account cancellation is unrelated to nano changes, its because ive lost interest in eve"
"supporting dis"
"support"
"i look forward to how this will pan out."
"support! :p"
"about time"
"i wholeheartedly agree with this topic."
"i agree with my main!"
"/signed"
"so do i!"
"me again, supporting this idea."
"i love voting on the forums, it's such a good representation of what the general population thinks."
"this has been a service announcement by the estel a gang, thanks for listening"
"support!"
"aye aye for fun eve :"
"for"
"agree with my main, simply because the 55 pages of the \"against\" page might give ccp the wrong idea that the numbers on the forums actually represent eve players as a whole :"
"i'd support everything except for the scrambler change tbh."
"hi mom!"
"nano nerf is needed..."
"nerf nerf!"
"i like the nano nerf"
"i think a month worth of testing will balance out the changes. so i'm for the current proposal. although i do think the web nerf is a little extreme."
"got my support."
"the speed changes are good, hopefully it'll bring the gameplay style back in line with how it was intended."
"no words can describe how immensely much i am for this nerf."
"in favor."
"this nerf has my full support."
"support."
"and, just because i also posted it in the vote-against thread:please visit your user settings to re-enable images.yuckety-yuck-yuck"
"aye"
"goddamit im here"
"i've always wanted to see nanoships rebalanced.good riddance, i'd say."
"for."
"down with the zoom zoom!"
"support"
"im here to play internet spaceships, not internet planetary flights."
"[facetious]well, on the one hand, they wouldn't have to alter their physics model in the slightest[/facetious]on the other hand... hello? these aren't colonial vipers; the smallest ship you can find is probably the size of an a380 and none of the ships are particularly aerodynamic. let's keep spaceships in space. you might get away with a rifter or a condor but anything bigger than a destroyer would just plummet down to the ground and illuminate the planet's surface."
"planetary flight looks to be a dumb gimmick which breaks the background fiction tritanium is supposed to be unstable in atmospheric conditions and serves no purpose except superficial eye candy. its even less worthwhile than walking in stations which at least has some fringe appeal to the roleplay crowd.the only issue the csm should bring to ccp's attention regarding planetary flight is to request that it be shelved before they dedicate any significant chunk of their resources to it."
"i also don't think the time is now, but i do know that eve will go there in the future not from insider info, just my intuition. i too would like to hear what ccp has to say about the current state of this idea."
"as far as \"ships aren't aerodynamic\" is concerned... neither are star destroyers.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.nor is voyager terribly aerodynamic...please visit your user settings to re-enable images.but crazy as it may seem... science fiction makes way for some things being possible regardless.if you think planetary interaction is useless... then you're probably not alone. but there are others who think ambulation is useless too. most of those folks who think any kind of non-pvp content is useless really just need to go play halo instead."
"just a request for ccp to tell us what's up with the project."
"a short paragraph in an item description is hardly re-writing ancient hieroglyphs inside ancient egyptian pyramids."
"killing local is a great idea, but the reason we fight over 00 if memory serves me right is for the industrial value that the moons and minerals bring us , it used to be hard enough making the trip from the belts to the stations everytime a unknown would arive in the system, this would only make that hard if not impossible for miners to stay safe.unless ccp added some kind of long lasting scanners and a window , maby like a radar system for the miners to use, drop a probe at each gate, thatmay help keep them safe for a few hours, a system only launchable from a mining barge even would work and then the miners in 00 would become a part of the eyes and ears of keeping systems guarded, that information would not have to be of a tactical nature just a informative one ie friendly or unfriendly just arived time to run or stay and mine, that simple information could then be given to any local defence force"
"three things...1 make local a \"recent speakers\" channel. then you have no idea who is actually in your area unless they are chatty, which spies shouldn't be.2 make hunter modules for tracking down nearby cloaks.3 do not, under any circumstances allow probes to find a cloak."
"i see a lot of honest opinions about attempting to equilize sp amounts and corp sizes, but that won't solve inconsistancies. industrialists will always have sp mainly in their industry skills, while your warfighters and pirates will have theirs into mainly combat skills. a person's ability to invent blueprints or refine crokite is not comparable to another person's ability to target, catch, and out-range an opponent in pvp battle. because of this, any effort to even the warfield based on sp should weigh heavilly on the combat skill sp and not on the non-combat skill sp.additionally, corporation sizes matter little, as many corporations carry friends on the books who are out of game for various reasons. people cancel accounts for a few months, go for vacations, head off to college, get ill, and even totally leave the game forever or die. you also have differences in the mechanics of how corps function. the industrial corp may have 3 characters per account on the corp payroll, since alts can train to use the manufacturing equipment, assist with production, mine or haul resources, run occasional missions, etc. the warfighting corp may only keep active fighters on the payroll, since that's all they need; existing off of mission rewards, bounties, and tribute. corp membership numbers do not directly correlate to combatant capability. the amount of time a character is in-game and sp in combat skills do."
"can't you hear their songs?"
"i want to see a picture of said space whale."
"i'm pretty sure there were space whales in another space sim game called starglider or starglider 2 from years ago."
"space whales = gnosis"
"you're in space. no sound can be heard.all for the whales!!!"
"woot!"
"they use eve voiceor better yet, give them bots that log into ts and ventthe same argument could be made that space whales can't surface for air anywhere. these are space whales. they sing with transmissions.if you would watch the space whales instead of trying to murder them all the time you could learn something about them."
"got my support. space should look like it's alive... cause it is :pv."
"i'm not a colour blind, but was one when my cat have gnawed red channel wire in monitor cable. ui in that period was completly misunderstanding, i lost a lot of valuable cargo and ships."
"yes yes yes, amongst other things the bops needs this."
"good."
"ok, so i haven't seen anything new on this in a while and my useless widow is still sitting on market collecting dust...what a surprise!please give us an update on what and when. it's been far too long with no answer..."
"yes please look at black ops."
"good to see that something good is coming out of this. you have my support."
"agree to the need to rebalance black ops completely, not simply adding fuel bay.v."
"when i first joined eve as a scrub, and read through the different races, eagerly picking the one i wanted, i was very surprised when i learnt within a few hours that effectively the race selection means nothing more than min/max'ing attributes, unless you enforced roleplay on yourself. the ability to cross-train into everything in eve, including other racial ships, is great for a sandbox game, but it's flawed for an mmo. most players will simply cross train into areas of strength, and ccp follows with the nerf bat. instead of each faction being at war with one another, and your options being limited to fight for your cause in your ships and each fleet balancing itself, you end up with uber fleets as you say, and that will never change.no matter how hard ccp tries to balance the ships, and make people use more options, in reality there will always be \"best\" fits for fleets. and people will continue to find those best fits, and bias their fitting toward them. by having the doors open for everyone to train what they wish just allows them to do this.while i agree with your idea, i think the root cause is even deeper and basically requires a wholesale change to the game."
"demus' rationale is right. it would limit the choices of many hard-core players, but it would also strengthen the roleplaying element of the game and make for more balanced battles where blobs wouldn't be that important. i like the idea, but it requires a lot of planning ahead. i never liked the \"power-player\" idea, cause it leads you to fly not what you like to rp and somehow we have to take into account that this is a mmorpg but what is \"hot\" and \"trendy\"."
"i like. makes eve more logical, with people choosing races, sticking together, making fleets look like...fleets and not like random throwaways.i wish the same would have been done with regions and manufacturing, for example: u make gallente ships 25% faster and 15% cheaper in gallente stations and gallente space. and so on and so forth. this idea is supposedly to difficult for ccp to handle their own statement was that it needed a complete rework around how stations work,...bs..nice constructive post, keep it up."
"this proposal is so crazy that it just might work"
"this."
"i like the ideas demus puts forward; it'll change a lot of stuff that's already considered \"normal\" for the game, but i think it could work if done properly. personally, anything proposed to make minmatar bs's not get laughed at gets a thumbs up in my book."
"it will work ! i am not crazy i tell you, i am not ! i can prove it !seriously now, i was laughing myself when i was writing it up, but honestly, i can't see how it wouldn't work or make things better."
"well starting off i would like to point out the definition of sovereignty.meaning i am the one that makes the rules here, not i make money here/have a shop or house here.so making sov related to kills/efficiency would make a lot more stance, than the current system of being only related to how many poses you have.i don't see a good reason to have it being related to asteroid mining or ratting since these are usually done for just personal gain and not in groups or for corps at least in 0.0.it should default to who has a pos there.what would get interesting if you get a good efficiency percentage and you break their sov. for a cynojammer.also having a cynojammer turn off for an hour or how ever much time after a dday is turned on could also be a nice addition.p.s. posting at 12am hope this makes sense-akira117"
"it's being worked upon, so stay tuned"
"there is a confirmation popup window. not for the victim of the attack, but for the attacker. he is, after all, the one who is going to die if he proceeds in high sec. as posted by another, above, the pop ups can be disabled. they can also be reactivated should you wish to do that after deactivating them. it's like switching the safety off on a gun. if you don't have the safety on, the gun could go off and hurt someone.windjammer"
"i agree."
"non-linearizing territorial combat isn't a bad idea. it's also not an inherently good one. current pos warfare is boring. your solution would only make it more boring. please tell me how your system would improve the game for current and prospective 0.0 alliances rather than npc 0.0/empire-based raiding alliances. if it wouldn't make life better for the people who seriously engage in sov warfare, your solution doesn't fix the problem.and if you want alliance activity to play a roll in sovereignty then require a real activity, like that someone rats/mines/manufactures stuff in each system for x hours per day. sitting on a gate hoping an enemy will show up to end your boredom isn't real activity, it's invented busywork, and being able to muster up 10 ships to sit there isn't a measure of small gang prowess. given the 24 hour timespan in which the attackers and defenders can revisit the gate, it's unlikely they'll ever bump into each other. and if hostile ships do show up when defenders are nearby, it'll be reported in intel channels and the defenders will arrive with a lot more than 10 ships. in either case, you're hardly promoting small gang fights. small gang fights are great. but there wouldn't be any more of them under this proposal than there are now."
"have you ever been to 0.0???nobody will split their force, because the first one to do so will loose!fleet a is opposing fleet b. both are the same size. the fc of fleet a foolishly decide to split his force in two to attack separate targets, fleet a1 and fleet a2. fleet b stays together and obliterates first fleet a1 and then fleet a2, with trivial losses for fleet b.people will not split forces unless absolutely forced to, and there's nothing in your proposal that will do that. all your suggestion is doing is giving us more structures to shoot hooray..... not!...."
"hey look...bob and goons are agreeing on something. maybe that is a sign that the people in this thread who haven't spent time in 0.0, have never had to grind round the clock to gain and keep space and don't actually defend territory should ask more questions. jade seriously, you proposing this and using your position to put it to the front of the csm agenda is rediculous. if you were interested in \"chairing\" a body that actually put forward some reasonable ideas rooted in the reality of 0.0 you'd contact the directors of various 0.0 existing bodies and get their input first. this looks like it got hashed out on the star fraction forums and then rushed here.defending 0.0 shouldn't be tedious it should be difficult. there is a difference."
"i disagree with the idea of giving sovereignty benefits on the basis of ratting, mining or manufacturing. alliances shouldn't be trying to out-mine one another in order to win control of space. exerting control over stargates is surely better than that.stargate control is intended as a reflection of an alliance's open space dominance. if you are capable of entering an area and holding a position on a stargate in the face of the enemy, it's a demonstration of military power. the issue with pos construction as the only source of sovereignty benefits is exactly what is described a few posts above - territory control becomes a question of whether one alliance can build structures faster than another can tear them down.in an isolated 24 hour period, it may be unlikely that any two small gangs would clash. but this conflict model should be viewed over the course of many days and weeks. the alliance that is better able to deploy a consistent force across a constellation over the course of days and weeks is the one that will end up with control. when two alliances try to do that over the same constellation, they will inevitably come into conflict.again remember that it is not a requirement for a territory holding alliance to constantly camp gates - they will only need to deploy their small gang forces when an enemy alliance is making a play for their space. and when that enemy alliance is consistently contesting stargates the defending alliance will need to field small gangs on a consistent basis to counter that, and those small gangs will inevitably encounter each other over the long term."
"try to address this kelsin:the current large 0.0 powerblocks have invested trillions of isk into empire building. the leaders of those alliances have invested untold hours organizing, motivating, and leading their members, and often doing a tremendous amount of no-fun, tedious drudgery to get where they are.building a major sov-holding alliance is no walk in the park. for those who hold that status, it's been a multi-year climb against continuous difficult opposition. every pos erected represents a missing day from a person's life spent doing something that is intrinsically un-fun, on top of hundreds of millions of isk expended. each major empire has hundreds of pos deployed, holding sov. and that's only the beginning. on top of that, there has been the effort to design and construct jump bridge networks, logistics schedules and systems, deploy outposts, construct capital fleets, supercaps, etc.each 0.0 empire represents a tremendous investment of time, effort, and resources. and, because 0.0 space is not really intrinsically valuable, the only real reward is to be able to say that you've done and are still doing it. well, that and the opportunities to fight huge ****-off fleet fights with the biggest and most expensive ships in the game.now explain why a gang of ten random people who have paid no dues and made no investment in empire building should be able to fly in from lowsec and even scratch the paint on a 0.0 empire's sov on a lark. if you can do that, maybe some of the opposition to your ideas will die down. that's what pretty much noone believes you understand.serious business, hurf blurf, etc."
"you're still just saying the side with the most members and the best coverage will win. well, assuming both sides have equal tolerance for tedium and inactivity.just sitting there on a gate isn't a display of military power, it's a display of how easily amused your members are. you want to display military power, go and make something explode. if you're just sitting still, you are the opposite of a threat. you are out of the game, you are avoidable, your firepower is not being applied against something someone might actually care about. if you live in 0.0, you are generally either invading or being invaded. or both at the same time. someone will want your resources, you will want someone else's, there are not enough to go around. never mind all the small gangs that run into alliance held space from empire just to **** about. you talk about it as though having hostiles in your space is a rare thing.the only real fights this will start will be between the power blocks, and they will only fight in force. you are in effect putting forward ideas that would make big alliances more dominant, giving them whole new ways of steamrolling through small corps, and yet it is members of those big alliances who are objecting to it. perhaps you should think about that fact.and you still haven't come up with a reason for why anyone would counter a bunch of small stationary groups with anything other than a blob."
"yea i kind of get what you're saying. maybe add a little to the logistical effort in that they have to keep these stargates out in the middle of no where fueled up in order to operated and costs a little bit to jump through them dependant on say, the mass of the ship being how much fuel it would take to launch ### kg object xxx lightyears or something."
"i think that 0.0 needs more stuff to do. i've never been there, but it sounds pretty boring and desolate to me, like going to some place in the african desert. for one thing, it sounds like there's absolutely nothing for rpers like myself to do.i was thinking that there could be some kind of space pleasure house structure that an alliance could deploy in 0.0. refined ladies like myself could perch there entertain the the big imperial leaders with witty discussions about current events and psycho-sexual warfare. and maybe our practiced hands could rub away some of the stress of all that tedious pos set-up and logistics *wink*.oh, and the pleasure houses could generate income for the alliance that possesses them -- just dump a steady stream of income into the old alliance wallet as long as they're running. how about that! it's kind of like an outpost, but it can only be destroyed and not captured. and you can't refit your ship or access the market there or anything. well, there would one particular black market you could access :i think this would make 0.0 a more profitable, civilized, and pleasurable place to live."
"edited"
"women in eve are just spacewhorse for the men in eve to keep us going. lend me your body for the evening, i wish to ravage you through the night before i set off to take over another region in the morning. i expect dinner be ready when i get home"
"scratching the paint is very different than totaling the car. i think that this proposal still very much rewards the kind of long term efforts the current 0.0 alliances have made to build their empires. what it changes is creating a layer on top with more give and take than the rigid and linear pos warfare. pos warfare continues to be the anchor for alliances - and maybe it is misleading that i have the stargates being the indicator of alliance sovereignty on the map, i went back and forth over whether to keep that under the domain of pos or not.that is why i think it's really ridiculous that many of the recent detractors in this thread have asserted that this somehow favors small empire based alliances over the current 0.0 sov holders. if you really read the proposal there's nothing in it to indicate that. the stargate capture mechanism simply allows for a certain amount of back and forth via small gang pvp that a system based entirely on pos does not.i certainly don't intend to upend the existing powers with this proposal, and nothing within it would lead to that. the folks here claiming that would be the result are revealing more about their own prejudices than anything reflecting the actual content of the op.what this does change is that it provides a suitable role for small groups of subcapitals to make an appropriate impact on the terrain of 0.0. an appropriate impact, which is not a huge impact but also not a complete lack of impact.outposts, supercaps, capital fleets and pos infrastructure will continue to be vital to any serious development of a 0.0 empire, and there is nothing within this proposal that contradicts that assertion. in fact something that i think turned out really well with this is that it provides for a lot of flexibility in terms of how an alliance can affect the terrain around them using all those assets.i understand that the current pos warfare is viewed as no-fun tedious drudgery, and that is precisely what we're looking to mitigate here by diversifying some of the pos sov benefits into other forms.so again, to say that this proposal somehow takes the grand and epic nature of 0.0 territory warfare and reduces it to 10 noobs conquering all of goon space by gatecamping them into submission is a poor willfully poor in some cases mischaracterization of what is actually in the op. it just isn't so.\"layers\" is the name of the game here, and there is a place for a small scale pvp layer to go alongside the capital ship sieging and epic fleet fights. it in no way replaces those, it just distributes a few of the benefits onto some new systems in order to increase the fun and variety of the territory warfare process."
"wow, the op presents such a dumb idea that i think im going to be canceling my account now. star faction, you win."
"except it isn't. locking down a stargate 23 hrs/day might be a demonstration of an attacker's power. but as long as it's uncamped sometimes and defenders can go through, an attacker having the gate camped even 12 hours straight per day would be effectively irrelevant to the defending alliance. and given capitals' ability to jump and titans' ability to jumpbridge, even having it locked down 23 hrs/day would hardly be life-changing.it simply doesn't matter that a group of 10 or even 100 hostiles is sitting on your gate if they're not shooting anyone/anything. if small attacking gangs want to show their power, why can't they kill the defending alliance's ratters and miners and damage the defenders' ability to make money? slowly bleed defenders dry and challenge their ability to hold space indirectly, through their wallets? that's what small gangs excel at. why do they need to excel at contesting sov directly too?yes, the defenders would field gangs but they wouldn't be small gangs. if 10 ships can kill the attackers, 100 ships will kill them faster and with fewer losses. nothing in your plan encourages small gang fights.i haven't seen anyone saying that your proposal would change the face of 0.0. everyone who's in 0.0 now has demonstrated their ability to put up with the boredom of pos warfare. they'd be able to put up with the boredom of your proposal too. but we kind of like playing eve and actually fighting people and don't want to be bored to tears forced to perform meaningless tag-the-gate logistics rituals concocted by someone who's never experienced 0.0 sov warfare. the way to make it less boring is to make it simpler and faster, not more complicated and drawn out.the stargate portion of your proposal favors raiding npc 0.0/empire-based alliances because they're the only ones who wouldn't be bored to death by it. conquering space will take even longer and be even more boring for attackers than it is currently. defending space will require drawing straws to see who gets stuck with the equally boring job of re-tagging contested gates everyday.i personally think activity is an interesting way to calculate system control. if you don't like ratting/mining/manufacturing, pick something else that the defenders should be doing anyway in their space. if defenders are legitimately nonactive in a system, it makes sense they'd have less control there. but being forced to camp gates when no hostiles are in sight isn't legitimate activity. it's a boring artificial pain in the ass.we have fundamentally different experiences/inexperiences with conquerable 0.0, so we're never going to agree. i'll go away now. just please read through your proposal and imagine the most boring it could possibly be. then imagine it being that boring for a month straight. people in 0.0 are guaranteed to have that month of solid boredom 10x as frequently as the good fights you're hoping to encourage."
"this!!the op talks about adding layers, but what we definitely don't need is more layers of tediousness and boredom.it has already been demonstrated with station services that having more structures to shoot doesn't encourage fights, it encourages blobbing because that way we can get the boring part over with faster.in short, the op's suggestion is:1. not adding anything to the game that isn't already there.2. not adding anything that would encourage ship vs. ship fighting.3. adding more boredom in a game that needs less!4. encouraging blobbing5. totally out of sync with what actually happens in 0.0."
"stargate control is about presence. an alliance contesting a stargate is saying \"we're here and we claim this space.\" a defending alliance recapturing a gate is saying \"no, we still occupy this space.\"if you have a series of border systems that are being repeatedly contested, it shows that another alliance is frequently bringing a sizeable gang into that space.but what about this:suppose an additional benefit of a captured stargate is that you can set an 8 hour period each day during which it cannot be contested. that way the system would be resistant to seeing opposing gangs miss each other entirely, and an attacker wouldn't be able to contest during an defender's off-peak hours, increasing the risk and likelihood of fights.i think that would solve many of the issues brought up."
"i prefer the change that i outlined here, which accomplishes the goal you outlined, but more effectively.i don't think that the defender making its stargates invulnerable to one continent of players of its choosing is the answer. a euro alliance shouldn't be able to force a us alliance to alarm-clock just to start assaulting their sov.in my suggestion, the attacker can attack in his timezone, and then the defender and attacker split the difference between their timezones for the deciding fight over who controls the gate. that encourages fights and limits the effect of attacking outside of an opponent's primetime. and it's about as fair as you can get.it's probably a good idea to use the 'workflow' of pos assault wherever you can, because 1 the players understand it and generally think it's a fair system, and 2 ccp came up with it and are likely to support its reuse. there's no need to reinvent the wheel. there's a reason that in the current game we can't set our pos to be invulnerable to one continent of players.edit: an alternative would be to let the defender choose the time when a stargate leaves the contested state and can be claimed for one side again. that would also mirror current tower stronting mechanics, where the owner of the pos tries to time it so that an assaulter tower comes out of reinforced in his prime. the gate would never be in the contested state for more than 24 hours."
"it'll do precicely...... nothing!not diving too deeply into the fact that most smaller alliances has like 6 hours where they can field significant numbers, you're also basically saying: let's turn gates into pos we can shoot for very small benefits!they'll no more encourage small gang fights than anything else in the game, for the simple fact that more > less!any revamp of 0.0 combat mechanics needs to encourage ship-to-ship fights, and your mechanic doesn't.the prevalent mindset and game mechanics will see something like this happen with your suggestion:lets say the defender has like 40 people online who're prepared to participate in pvp.a. if the attacker got more people than the defender, he'll blob them together and take out the gates without the defender being able to do anything. if he splits his force, he may be able to do it quicker, but risks losses.b. if the attacker got less people than defender, he not be able to stay for the time it requires to take down a gate unless both sides got 100+ ships.c. if they got more or less the same amount, we may get a fight, but we would get one anyway if they just roamed into the defenders area unless both are too scared to lose ships in an equal engagement.in none of the cases has your mechanics made any change to anything. this would happen too if the attackers went to attack a station service.you suggestion tries to emulate a capture-the-flag situation in a fps game, but you fail to take into account that the objective here isn't to capture the flag and win on points after 20 minutes. the objective is to kill the opponents ships which contrary to a fps game doesn't respawn automatically or without effort. nor do the game start from fresh after the 20 minutes.since a blob is better at doing this than a small gang, the blob will remain!in essence, your suggestion will not work because the preconceptions you base it on are wrong!"
"i'll go back and try to work something like this into it - you've made a strong argument in favor of using a reinforcement-esque mechanic to ensure that ships meet in combat and going in this direction would allow the amount of time it takes to contest shorter.i think your second suggestion of letting the defender simply set the time at which a gate will become available for capture should it become contested would be simplest and give the defender the best opportunity to field ships in defense of their holdings. in theory attackers would contest a number of gates throughout an area and when their vulnerability times hit return to one or more of them to make a play to capture it.i regret not having a way for fallow territory to return to neutral status though. is there a way to bring that in?p.s. kerfira - i don't know where you're getting the \"shooting gates\" bit. you may want to actually read the op."
"i think that in practice 'fallow territory' would be so rare that i would leave it up to the devs so that they can code it whichever way is easiest. i'm not sure that there has ever been a case where an attacker conquered a space-holder and then left the space fallow. at the very least some third party would show up and claim the space in short order.what i mean is that if it's easier for them to leave out the bit of code that says \"hey, this gate has been neutral for 6 hours. who was the last defender? ok, that guy now has the gate in the captured state again\". then that's fine, because i don't think that code would be executed very often at all."
"yeah that's fair enough - i agree that it would be unlikely for territory to be uncontested by anyone. i've revised the details about how stargates are captured in the op to reflect your suggestions and i think it'll work well. let me know what you think."
"ya, it looks translated correctly.i think you should also add to the proposal what i wrote earlier about requiring a resource expenditure and maybe a special midslot mod to perform the gate-contesting action, analogous to how dreads go into siege.so now i think the proposal draws out sov warfare into a longer process kinda bad, but adds something that small gangs and small ships can do kinda good and has some ideas to reduce the number of ships on grid for some parts of sov warfare good while leaving in a stage for huge ****-off fleetfights with big expensive ships good.so, it could be worse."
"out of curiosity, are ccp allowed to step in and tell the csm that certain ideas are not worth discussion and that they should be stricken from the agenda?because this is one of them. stop trying. this has a 0% chance of success because it involves a empire-dweller suggesting sweeping changes to a part of the game they have no experience in."
"and jade is right; it is totally unreasonable to silence any opinion or proposal that is constructive. if you have a better idea, post it; don't just sit here and knock down ideas you don't think have any merit simply based on where the player hangs out in game."
"then why exactly do they do it if it's \"inherently un-fun\"? seems like if that was the case, alliance's wouldn't bother. there must be something entertaining about it."
"ok, it's the same way that ten random iraqi \"insurgents\" can strike fear into the hearts of the most powerful military in the world with improvised, homemade explosive devices."
"if possible i'd like to keep the pre-planning component of the stargate capture part confined to forming a gang of sufficient size and consisting of members of an alliance - as i think that does serve as a light barrier for entry without adding in a whole new module or resource. but i'll put it as a parenthetical suggestion just to keep the idea in play.one thing i do think would be interesting would be to allow hacking to play a role in stargates - perhaps hacking would allow a ship or ships to use the stargate without being recorded in the activation logs, or allow someone to see what the failsafe timer is set to before they contest it."
"good job wasting csm time which could be spent on true improvements and fun, trying to fulfill your corp's and ceo's shortcomings.3 dispersion of forces yields better results than concentrated forces - include a mechanic that contains incentives to fight simultaneous battles on different grids or even different systems, to reduce the need/incentive for \"blobbing\" and encourage small scale pvp.kelsin, you have no clue what or how many ships are needed in current 0.0 warfare do you?"
"let's return to the now altered op.one single time zone alliance attacks another single but different time zone alliance during their prime time, sending in small gangs to capture 5-10 of their stargates. the gates come out of their reinforced mode in the defenders prime, all at the same time. there ensues a desperate rush to make something happen in a single 5 minute window, because if you think people won't use whatever is necessary to do this **** as quickly as possible, you're wrong. now, this is the defender's prime. he can probably fight off the entirety of the attacker's available fleet without too much hassle at this point. it's quite possible that the total amount of ships his enemy can field now will be smaller than the amount he could send out to claim gates earlier, they won't be stealing them all. assuming at least one side actually wants to keep these gates, one of two things happens:the defenders choose to split their fleet and try to reclaim all the gates. the attackers don't, in the knowledge their combined fleet in this time will mash any of the splinters. they annihilate a small group and claim a stargate. the rest are reclaimed but this is of no real consequence, this entire affair has only taken about 30 minutes out of the day. option two: the defenders bunch a majority of their fleet, definitely saving one or two specific stargates, but potentially losing the rest. the attackers either bunch and claim a single gate, or spread to try and claim more than one. if the attackers bunch, they better hope the defenders don't know where they're going. if they spread, the defenders not in the main fleet can form suicide or sniping teams who try and keep these gangs to under 10 people while the fleet moves around mopping up. whatever happens, once this is all over, the gates have been claimed and the attackers have buggered off again, the defenders in their prime reclaim those gates they lost and probably a few of the attacker's for good measure. the whole cycle then repeats in the attackers prime, and each side trades a few stargates every day with no real gains or losses. if the two alliance primes match, you're doing nothing but adding a buffer to how pos warfare currently works. the attacker finds out the timing of the enemy gates, they arrive in system in force just before this time and lock it down. they capture the gates, wait a few minutes for the timer to kick in, capture the gates again, and then nuke the jammer if there is one. it's just a cyno-jammer attack with a 15 minute warning for the defenders.if two big alliances fight, they'll probably just stalemate. cyno-jammer attacks will come with an extended warning. gate capture gangs in un-jammed systems can be easily countered by cyno-scouts watching the gates as they come out and a titan online to bridge in a defence fleet. the same method can be used to get capturers on any gate that's not being defended when you're invading. then you'll get claim spamming. send out a few hundred pilots to claim every single gate in an enemy's space that they can get at. announce to the universe that you have done this and when the gates come out. laugh as your enemy struggles to defend 50 gates simultaneously while you invade along with whoever else can find 9+ friends and feels like travelling down from empire to stick the boot in to those terrible people in their big alliances. of course, if you try and avoid this by letting them time every stargate individually, it's insanely in the defender's favour. just give yourself 10 minutes at each gate, and you can rotate the fleet between them. set four hours a day as \"prime\" and that's a good 25 gates you can defend without any major problem.this idea will do nothing other than make the already drawn out process of pos warfare take even longer."
"alt of the op spotted."
"right. and as the attackers knock out single stargates here and there, they open the door for attacks on cynojammer arrays because the array invulnerability is lost when one of the stargates in that system is captured by the attacker and this moves the battle to fleets within individual systems, which in turn opens the door for attacks on pos within systems that have their jammer arrays knocked out.that seems to work pretty well. what are the flaws?"
"idea was rejected in the csm meeting."
"oh dear, that means star fraction will remain as irrelevant, empire-hugging wannabes."
"sanity prevailed."
"not gonna learn about 0.0 in crielere star fraction."
"no guys i participated in faction warfare i think i know a enough about 0.0 and these changes were neccesary"
"that was always going to happen, even if this change had been voted in."
"the flaw is that the cynojammer would be better protected than it is now."
"all i see in this thread is the star fraction and empire corp wanting to get into 0.0 without having to do any work. these idea's are awful and no one with any sanity or understanding of 0.0 should support it. if you want to get into 0.0 then work for it like everyone else out here had to. don't just change the game around to fit what you want and screw everyone else over."
"purest strain ownage"
"was rejected at the csm meeting. there were some calls for a generalized \"change to sovereignty\" issue to be re-submitted but since we already did that first time round for the iceland agenda its probably time to drop the aspiration for formal csm submission. i think its unlikely we'll see any significant proposed change to 0.0 warfare pass through the current composition of the csm. i would encourage kelsin and other commentators to keep working on the proposal though and consider submitting it to ccp directly since it is a very good proposal and definitely deserves to be seen by the teams looking at 0.0 sovereignty. sorry it failed chaps. hopefully we'll have better luck in the future."
"first we need to come up with an agreement on what the problems with 0.0 even are. if you actually lived in 0.0 you would understand that its not that simple and writing up even a list of problems that aren't going to cause a ton of debate is a huge undertaking. then we need the proposition to come from people who actually live in 0.0. incase you didn't notice, this whole thing was shot down by a lot of people because i mean an empire corp telling us whats wrong with 0.0? you've got to be kidding."
"well that's an awfully negative way of looking at it. you'd think ccp would set up some method of receiving proposals such as this. a council perhaps?"
"ah well, thanks for the input toman and to all who gave constructive criticism."
"it didn't fail because of the composition of the csm. it failed because you couldn't get your coalition to show up for the meeting, or alternatively because you put the issue on the agenda without making sure that your coalition would be present to support it. if dierdra, lavista, and serenity had been present it probably would have passed; hell, dierdra voted to support on the first page of the thread. basically it failed because you are inept and clumsy and do not know how to use your chairman powers to your advantage.i'm glad that you've given up on putting forward proposals to revamp the system though, because it's a complete waste of time for anyone involved. for the people who actually live in 0.0 to even reach a consensus on what the problems are would take weeks of work. then weeks of additional work reaching a consensus on the solution. and then the issue would have to be discussed with ccp. then they'd have to discuss it internally, and then the solutions would actually have to be developed, tested, and deployed. all in all no results from the effort would probably be seen for over a year because ccp has plenty else going on besides this issue, and by that time a new csm would have handed off an entirely different proposal. and god only knows what else would happen in the game over that time; lag could be solved for all we know.issues this big are nothing more than opportunities for fun theorycrafting and to build castles in the air. by the time any 'visionary' proposal issued by the csm can become reality, there will be a better game out there to play anyway."
"np. gave me something to do while waiting on my **** to compile. coming up with the proposal was more fun than playing the results of it would have been."
"to be honest, the current csm is good at some things, i think we've had some excellent small issues and such. but i do get the sense we won't be able to come to consensus on any significant change to 0.0 sovereignty because it simply treads on too many toes and too many entrenched interests. i didn't feel we had a very fruitful discussion today over these sovereignty changes because it was too much dogma and too little actual flexibility or objectivity. i guess 0.0 sovereignty is one of those areas that ccp will need to look at independently of organized player feedback in the future and until then we can concentrate on smaller issues we can find common ground on. end of the day the csm wasn't introduced to be the be all and end all of player/ccp communication and if we find areas where we cannot function correctly then we should just be wise enough to leave well alone and get on with the stuff we can do well. my 2cents anyways."
"can we impeach you?"
"thats one of those things you weren't very good at"
"the idea was bad. it was a horrible horrible idea. someone not agreeing with you or yours doesn't always insinuate dogmatic response or some grand conspiracy. sometimes you're just wrong. happens to the best of us. simply because a discussion doesn't go your way does not mean it's not fruitful. i believe that there are ways we can look at the 0.0 issue holistically, i just don't think the proposed solution was a good one. a majority agreed.the solutions to the issues of 0.0 are not to change 0.0 into factional warfare or make it so that 15 dudes can take down the sov of thousands. these solutions and the responses from some in the meeting greatly underestimate the amount of work and effort required to hold space today. it's been quite trivialized to be frank. it's no fault of the people doing so. it's just ignorance.i'll repeat it again because it bears worth repeating. there is no entitlement to 0.0. it is not anyone's right. it takes a great deal of work and effort to take and hold space and most are simply not up to the task. that is not a bad thing. you already have factional warfare with control points in the game. if that excites you nothing is stopping you from playing there.to be honest, in the meetings we've had a lot of the talk about solutions to \"blobbing\" and \"multiple objectives\" exist today. in many cases it's simply ***** envy. small gang work exists today and believe it or not *gasp* it happens every day in 0.0! eve is a sandbox and it is you who are limiting yourself. not the mechanics. there's a lot that could be changed but i think what bears looking into is what makes the barrier of entry into 0.0 so high? *hint* it's not stargate tag. it's logistics. it's management. it's leadership. it's will and effort. two of those can be made easier and less painful via mechanics. the other 3 are nobody's fault but your own."
"have you considered the possibility that the reason this was rejected was that the idea itself was horrible?adding a layer of boredom on top of another layer of boredom isn't an improvement!!!! if your corpie is so brilliant, why don't you have him think up something that'll encourage pvp instead of pve which is all structure shooting really is...."
"that's one of those things that wasn't an option."
"on the silent majority part: most players don't post and don't fly carriers.we can't know their opinions without them offering them up, but we can analyze what is advantageous to their in-game experience.deemphasizing the role of carriers as carrier support is advantageous to most players, as it puts more emphasis on sub-capital support.a lot of extremely loud players posted many many many times making it seem like most of eve was against it.to achieve this, you must make carriers less effective by themselves.there are many many ideas about how to make carriers dependent on support, but ccp's original proposition is superior to all of them. drone delegation dependence is the right idea, and i think they should review their original idea.i support the original fighter delegation idea for the following reasons:fighter delegation would be the sufficient weakness that carriers deserve. if you take out the ships that the fighters are delegated to, then the carrier is not as effective anymore. but if you ignore the ships that the fighters are delegated to, then the carrier is very effective.simple, elegant, effective, and makes perfect sense. they should have done it, but didn't.people will be unhappy about it, after all there are thousands of carrier pilots. but it is the right decision. those players may throw a hissy fit about it, but after they are done with that, they might reexamine what they choose to fly into combat, and choose an amount of carriers that is proportional to the size of the support fleet in which they must delegate drones to.the worst thing that they could happen is that these players go back to flying sub-capital support, which is a good thing.however, delegation should be made much easier and convenient than it currently is.the biggest complaint about that dev blog was that delegation is a logistical nightmare. organizing who is delegating what to who, when there are hundreds of people in gang, i can see what they mean. drone delegation should feel easy and natural.carriers should be able to flag drones as being available for delegation to their fleet, much like a sell order. on the flip side, fleet support should have easy access to requesting drone support, much like a buy order.this would allow a carrier to open up a window to view drone support requestsbuy orders, and delegate dronessell to whoever requested them.it would also allow a support ship to open up a window to view drone support offerssell orders, and accept support of those drones from whoever offered them.i believe it would be ideal if both the nerf and similar functionality to what i propose went in at the same time.finally, @ccp, don't let players bully you into not making a decision that is good for the game. while more and more characters get more and more sp, eve will have more and more capital ship pilots.if you do not make the right decision now, the situation will only get worse, to where absolutely everyone opts to bring a carrier to a fleet as support, rather than all of the other smaller support ships.if you delay making the right decision, you'll just **** off more and more people that start to think of eve as capital ships online. you had the balls to admit the mistake that you made with carriers, now just find the balls to correct the mistake. it is the right decision, make it."
"i like bane's ideas, as a new player looking at carriers as a potential career in the longrun, i felt they were just too bland and a bit boring, more thought out mechanics and options available like he suggested would generally make them more fun and appealing, i think."
"] bane glorious > goonswarm relies on new players... - bane's post 8 in this thread: ...\"hardly anyone trains advanced drone interfacing to v let alone level iv\"....- banes post 10 in this thread:....\"please consider removing some skill prerequisites, such as jump drive operation v, advanced spaceship command v, and so on\"....\"the skill training time is boring and causes harmful stratification between newbies and veteran\"the above quotes indicate banes impressions derived from goonswarm membership. apparently he disagrees with you on the the number of new players goonswarm has he, himself can't fly capitals and he's been in the game for over 2 years. he feels hardly anybody in his alliance has maxed the skills and wants those skills eliminated. and finally he wants to reduce the difference in ability between newbies and veterans.that can be added up to show a pretty clear picture of what bane hopes to gain and what he believes it will mean to goonswarm.as an example of other alliances; bob simply does not have the same demographic. in point of fact, one of the critcisms of bob was that they take only people with 34+ million sp.clearly, clearly, an alliance such as bob would suffer disproportionately compared to goonswarm if banes wishes were to be granted. goonswarms numbers would then have a greater effect than they do now against bob and similar alliances.windjammer"
"bane, making leading statements in your first sentence means i stopped reading at the first sentence.try again without logical fallacies straight off, okay?"
"look above to post 98 for the bulk of my reply.bane's proposed nerfs would not affect other alliances in the same way it would goonswarm. it quite simply has to do with goonswarms primary asset. over 5,000 members. that's well over twice what anybody else has. to pretend it has no bearing on issues is to ask everyone to stick their heads in the sand and pay no attention to that 600 pound gorilla behind the curtain. look to 2 and 2a of what you've quoted me on to see one way in which this works.it's not paranoia. it's paying attention to the situation and comparing that to what goonswarms representatives in the csm ask for and apparently ask for again when denied the first time.windjammer"
"damn straight!!!regards,windjammer"
"goons suggesting people read threads before making terrible replys, what is this world coming to?"
"so tell us, how many players should someone who subscribed in '03 be able to defeat on their own?"
"because you have over twice as many members as bob and bring twice as many pilots to any given fight as bob. bane's proposed changes would enhance your advantage due to your numbers against the fewer and more skilled veterans of bob.windjammer"
"thank you. you precisely underline, make bold and italicize the summary of my posts as well as a considerable number of specific points in those posts. your cooperation is most appreciated.best regards,windjammer"
"i don't know. almost seems like hypocrisy.windjammer"
"very big of you to go out of your way to do so. i've bothered to actually ask a number of the \"silent majority\" what they think about the proposed carrier nerfs. the response, \"that sucks\", runs into the 90th percentile. try it yourself. oh.....but then i suppose they aren't intelligent enough to make their own decisions and we require you to tell us all what's best for us.you can't have read the response threads to the original ccp zulupark dev blog because you got this exactly wrong. the biggest complaint was about the proposal to force carrier pilots to delegate their fighters. carrier pilots overwhelmingly desire to retain control of their fighters in deployment and wish to delegate fighters as an option, not as a requirement.yeah, ccp. don't listen to the players. they're wrong. listen to and be bullied by letsdothis. he's right. thank goodness he/she is here to straighten everyone out.disgusted,windjammer"
"give capital repair arrays automatic activation on locked friendlies, switching the activation to server-side where lag isn't an issue.have two sizes of fighters to both force carrier pilots to decide on large damage against large targets or small damage against small targets, just like everyone else in the game.allow anti-capital carriers to be fitted, but at the expense of repair capabilitymake reppers smaller, faster, and require more slots, so that a focused repping carrier has to use more slotsallow a repair oriented carrier to assign fighters in lieu on controlling them directlymake triage mode allow a carrier to perform industrial scale repairs to dreads or allow the carrier to remain mobile during triage.at current, fighters are too versatile. the repper omnifit takes too few slots and not enough focus. the capital damage dealer also requires too few slots. a carrier that triage's becomes vulnerable to capital fire but cannot actually perform capital support on the caps that are receiving cap fire.triage is badly broken. the amount of repair you can do in triage can only be useful for another cap. look at the dps numbers. a bs requiring triage hp/s is almost surely going to be alpha'd down on the first shot, making any dps vs hp/s relationship moot. it's supposed to enable a carrier to be much more effective in it's sub-cap support role, but this actually just places it in line with dreadnoughts in the damage tanking arena.thus if you want to do something in triage, you simply make yourself have to tank dreadnought damage while being unable to give your industrial repairs to dreadnoughts who can use it and only able to repair non-triage carriers who don't need it. simply put, if you're in triage and not primary, you're enhanced capabilities go to waste."
"yes, because alliance membership count is directly proportional to the number of pilots that show up to fights. this is why ascn is still the game's dominant 0.0 power.sarcasm aside, you've clearly stated that veteran players should have an advantage. no one really disagrees with that, except in degree. how many frigs should it take to kill a cruiser? how many cruisers to kill a bs? bs to kill a dread?player knowledge/skill, skillpoints and numbers should all be involved in determining which side wins a fight. so tell us, where does that line get drawn? because right now all your statements amount to nothing more than rediculous anti-goon propaganda that even worse, is based on numerous faulty assumptions."
"every carrier's ship bay has the same size: 1,000,000 m3battleship sizes range from 414,000 m3 typhoon to 517,500 m3 apocalypse.same is true for any smaller ship class, but battleship sizes display this issue best, as it is for example not possible to put two megathrons into any carrier's ship bay but it is possible to fit two abaddons. yes i fly megathrons. while i admit it adds a certain flavor to the game having different ship sizes, it also overcomplicates logistics. i am not saying it makes it impossible, because of course if i team up with a minnie pilot i can put one mega for me and one tempest for him/her into my carrier, but still overcomplicating things.hence, i propose, either adjust size of carrier ship bays probably a difficult balancing issue, however could also lead to new carrier mods, like ship bay expanders with certain drawbacks or equal ship sizes, e.g. battleships 500,000 m3, cruisers 100,000m3 etc.good idea? bad idea? only my problem and i should crosstrain to another race?"
"this idea passed with a unanimous grand slam, 8-0.please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"yes thanks for ignoring the biggest supported thread and pushing this one through.skunk"
"f off, trolledit: tress mac 'the knife' neille"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"in my opinion, hacs going 3.5kms isnt broken at all, as they are easily killable. however, 10kms hacs etc are broken, so i propose adding a new formula instead of the current nerf that prevents ships from reaching these stupid speeds using the following equation:new speed=old speed-mass*old speed^2.45^1-mass/10000000000*8.6*10^-14yes, it looks complicated and is probably horribly inefficient, but thats what i came up with eventually. it only really affects the stupidly fast ships, leaving normal nano hacs as a viable pvp option still, though slightly weaker. i feel it would be much better to start with a change like this the nerf scalple, instead of the current plan the nerf sledgehammer. this also doesnt damage webs and blaster ships.new ship speeds with this equation added:old speed > new speedvaga - dual poly single nano2k > 2k4k > 3.5k6k > 5k8k > 5.8k10k > 6.3k - this is the ships terminal velocity, so it cannot go any faster than this speed with its current mass, even if you have full faction and hg snakes.sac - dual poly dual nano2k > 1.9k4k > 3.5k6k > 4.7k8k > 5.5kcrow - single nano - ceptors arent affected much due to their low mass, making them better nano counters and keeping their role of being fast5k > 5k10k > 9k15k > 13.5k20k > 17kthis graph shows these changes in more detail, moving from crow at the top, vaga, sac, and raven at the bottom. the peak of the graph is the terminal velocity, so the ship stops increasing in speed at this point. the y axis is the new speed, and the x axis is the old speed."
"okay. so. here we are, with the hotly debated upcoming patch. and of course there is much moaning going on. on both sides. and i just want to take this opportunity to say, at first...this is out of hand and needs adjustmentboth sides seem to be taking it to the extremes in this conflict, with few able or willing to think constructively or meet half-way. and personally, i grow tired of it.having said that, and satisfied both my own personal smugness and irateness in one stroke, i will try and address and offer ideas on what to me seem to be the most hotly debated, critical issues.on the nano nerfit seems to me that while a good toning down of the speed element is necessary, and the csm has caused many pilots to rejoice as they have taken up the nerf bat and waved it in the general direction of ships exceeding 3 km/s in regular speed, one might wonder if all their manhandling of the speed tanks is justified, or will result in balance.that webifiers are to be reduced in effectiveness is perhaps warranted. but to do it in the same stroke with adding more penalties to already disadvantaged minmatar ships? and to cut down on the power of overdrives that much, when it's the poor noob's one choice to squeeze more speed out of his ship? one can understand some of the severity for the implants. gang bonuses should perhaps even be reduced more, but only velocity-wise. generally though, it seems to me that they should have begun by increasing the stacking penalties instead. or, by limiting ships to using only one module of a certain type. for example, why would you need, and how would you be able to fit two engine housings, and two nanofiber internal structures? it's far from just the power items that are to blame. it's the weight-reducing modules' cumulative bonuses that were and still are the issue in the first place. remember; it's called nanoing for a reason. and this stems from the very next issue...on microwarpdrives and speedi cannot say that i was anything but shocked, and appalled, to see that for all their intent to solve these issues of extremes appearing in eve, the csm had almost overlooked the microwarpdrive. it, more than any other module or augmentation or game element because it has become so dominant as to be considered one, is the very key to this problem. i can come to no other conclusion, no matter how i twist and turn the issue. and, in face of this, i have proposed an alternative solution. but even disregarding that, keeping the massive bonuses to speed and equally massive penalties that the mwd represents cannot reasonably be seen as anything but a bad choice. simply because they are extreme, and thus quite obviously become accordingly hard to balance. if this upcoming nerf does not offset things completely, making nano-fitted, speed-tanking ships obsolete, then it may very well keep them right at the top of the game nevertheless! it's like an ill-balanced see-saw; if the weight isn't perfectly distributed, it will always weigh over completely to one side in the end. it's a knife's edge-issue that shouldn't even be there in the first place.in short: reduce the effectiveness and penalties both of microwarpdrives, or preferably have the module replaced by some more reasonable alternative. don't take away all we have worked or skill-trained toward so abruptly. and add some higher skill requirements for the usage of mwds or the equivalent. this will keep them from being used quite so easily by expendable pilots using expendable ships, in rather notorious tactics that can only be described as metagaming... [i]c"
"on the missile problemthen, of course, there is the unavoidable issue of a lowering in overall speed drastically increasing the power of missile ships against ships relying on outrunning missiles and their explosions. this is, beside blobs, largely the achilles' heel of any modification to reduce the power of mwds. but, i would not have mentioned that former subject, had i not a solution. and really, the fact is that seeing as there are already ships that have problems against missile boats, that the drake has long been the target of outrage among many pilots, and that defender missiles are seen largely as a waste of slots and ammo, i think that this solution becomes rather necessary after a while, if it is not already.the answer is: introduce missile-countering ecm.and how? without offsetting the balance once again, and keeping missile ships useful? without having to implement too many new modules or skills or bonuses or even ships?after some thought, the answer seemed obvious, and i took my inspiration from the recent addition to heavy interdictors' warp-disrupting capabilities against capital ships.the answer is to use existing ecm, but to use scripts, and turn their functions around, in a manner that almost mirrors the interdictors modules'. these 'function alterations' would disable the chosen ecm modules from targeting specific ships, and of course drain capacitor and induce penalties, but help defend against missiles and/or possibly drones.caldari ecm jammers, when mounted with these scripts and activated, would use the ecm and ship sensors to detect incoming missiles and their electronics, and jam them one by one, causing the missiles to believe their target lost and to deactivate and/or self-destruct. the penalty would be a targeting speed reduction, because of the defensive system using up part of the ship's sensors and computing resources.gallente sensor dampeners would turn their own function on end, and create a 'signal dispersion field' around the user ship, confusing the missiles' sensors and causing them to detonate prematurely or off toward the side of the ship. however, because of this field reducing signal accuracy and resolution to the user ship itself, its targeting range and that of any ship within 4-5 km would be penalized.amarr tracking disruptors would disrupt the missiles' targeting, causing them to track slowly and on anomalous signals, offsetting their detonation much like the gallente variant. however, this disrupting field would similarly slightly disrupt the tracking of anything within 4-5 km, friend or foe, and interfere with the ship's engines, slowing it down.minmatar target painters would send out a steady, low-energy signal to detect incoming projectiles. and once it detected any, it would lock on them and send out a concentrated version of its painter beam, blinding and frying their sensors and systems, causing their destruction. this detection signal though, would have the disadvantage of causing the user ship to see an increase in signature.the balance would come from the fact that even these systems would not be perfect. one would have to apply enough ship bonuses and module augmentations to ignore other forms of protection for them to completely stop a missile attack, or perhaps so much as bring it down to tankable levels, because the caldari and minmatar systems would have to deal with one missile at a time, making volleys or fast-fired missiles difficult to counter, and the gallente and amarr systems would only offset the explosion, thereby reducing the damage but not negating it.well, that about wraps these first analyses and suggestions up. hopefully, there will be some form of support or consideration, or at least anything other than whine, in response to this.my regards to you all."
"proper linkyou had 1 to many"
"*facepalm*i am lose."
"not if they haul significantly less per trip which - guess what - they would. nice try, though."
"wrong. without some restriction, a carrier could hold about 120,000 m3 3 itty5's, expanded and rigged to 35,000 m3 each or whatever it is. when they were nerfed, the smb was increased in size, so in fact without limiting the role of haulers in the smb, they could now be very effective at moving cargo without some other way of preventing that."
"now, you do realise that a rorqual has an identical smb plus the ability to hold an additional 126,000m^3 of cargo, right? jump freighters go further, holding three times as much as a logistics carrier even without restrictions. carriers are still vastly less efficient.edit: the \"other way\" of preventing carrier logistics was the compression nerf, which was committed at about the same time as the original smb nerf. you really do need a vast carrying capacity to efficiently move minerals and other goods today, and carriers simply aren't a viable option because of the significantly increased fuel cost that multiple trips necessitates."
"why? because it's disingenuous. i can tell you right now that the alliances that abuse nano tactics are getting every alt of every pilot to try and vote this down. look some of the people up ingame. noob corp much? it's not so much the eve community speaking as a childish minority who don't want to learn how to do anything other than fly nano."
"the carrier nerf got canceled, is there any reason it shouldn't be the same for nanos?"
"how dare you"
"against!"
"why yes, forum whining alt, there is a reason things should not play out the same way here.carriers didn't need that much of a nerf. nano ships, at least hacs and recons, do. it's quite simple."
"while i think this topic is pretty pointless... i'll play along.another difference between this nerf and the carrier nerf..... prettymuch no one supported the carrier nerf except for 1 or 2 fanbois who like to blow smoke up ccp's .....ya.while on the flipside about 1/2 of eve's population supports a nano-nerf. even most of the posters in the anti-nerf thread say they want nano's changed, just not this change."
"poast"
"yes, because a dev blog that specifically says player input will be considered should ignore player input."
"and most of the people on the \"for\" topic are in noob corps too, so whats your point? sore loser?"
"lo!just proposing the idea that is basing on the idea behind booster modules for all weapon systems:introduce higher meta modules officer, faction for signal distortion amps. in a way ecm are the weapon system of dedicaged ecm boat and i'm sure some gurista/dread gurista /officers use their own modified ecm boosting mods in their low slots, it'd be nice to have them as drops.dread gurista signal dist...estamel's signal dist...virgo's dreamworks signal dist...etc.thanks,v."
"simple proposal - micro 2.5m3 drones that are one use only. good for pilots with no missile skills, and for ships with tiny drone bays."
"proposal: let your jeenous ideas get hashed out in f&i a bit first.drones don't have fuel, and drones can be extended to about 200km range...what you're suggesting is a weapon that will continue to follow the target, no matter how fast or how far they fly, until it lands a hit.if you want missiles, then train missiles. if you are upset about small drone bays, then get a bigger ship.this message brought to you by a guy who loves using his drones, but won't stand for half baked ideas floating about."
"i believe they're called \"missiles\". if you want to use missiles without training missile skills, well, i really don't know what to say to you."
"voting yes. faster bcs/commands ftw."
"voting against. considering what ships we're dealing with here and the speeds of missiles... come on. you can't seriously think that 'ceptors completely outrunning anything, even other 'ceptors, and a battleship going that fast is reasonable?"
"what's sad is that this guy has been around since february 2005. you'd have thought that he'd have gotten the message by now.i'm half-tempted to get an alt corp together, and have a standing war dec up on his corporation void engineers just to see what the reaction is."
"poasting in a \"can i have your stuff\" thread."
"sukio is no longer associated with void.sukio was a trial recruit and he refused to fleet up for pvp, although the entirety of his corporation engaged the enemy. due to numerous inconsistencies with his cover story, he had been stripped of roles for almost a week and was kept in the dark on fleet operations to prevent espionage. as far as enjoyment of the game is concerned he was well protected. if war targets logged on they were announced with ample time to dock up. sukio, it is time to grow a pair. man up or gtfo of eve online.thanks for your time.-v"
"looking at sukio's employment record is like looking at a a shopping list of corps who sukio must have had bad experences in pvp with. this guy/gal needs to stay in the npc corps permanently. eve does have an alternative to war decs; npc corps. stop complaining when people who have balls enough to push away from the npc corp umbrella have occasional encounters with war decs. it's part of the game. you seem to want all the benefits that a member-run corp provide, but don't seem to have a clue that \"freedom isn't free!\". cheers to void - great call in booting this peace activist."
"bullsh*t, ccp will eventually see the light and serve the majority of its player base by requiring the decced corp to consent to the wardec. then the majority of the eve subscribers can get back to the business of missioning, mining and production, which the game should have been centered around, while the small minority of the mentally unstable players can just act like d**ks to each other!!"
"you guys are really pathetic. really."
"7/10, your name sort of gives the game away though"
"why you violence boat??!!!!?"
"okay got heard at the csm and we voted it through. will be on the agenda for formal discussion with ccp. chatlog of the meeting = here"
"okay got heard at the csm and we voted it through. will be on the agenda for formal discussion with ccp. chatlog of the meeting = here"
"i know this isn't the angle the op was taking, but here's the reason i'm supporting turning titans into mobile stations:a titan is the ship you graduate to when you've pretty much done everything else. the players who pilot titans would probably like them to be something special and unique.nobody who started playing eve that long ago started because they wanted a way to be king of the mountain. with everything else in eve, you can only maintain what you continuously build. erosion is constant. the feeling of entropy is what makes eve seem very free. you are free to do whatever you can accomplish and the game works very hard against the desire to maintain something without working very hard to keep it.at current, a titan is a tool for players most advanced in the game to seriously upset the essential entropy and dynamic of the eve universe. it's a tool that allows a group of the most advanced players in the game to escape what would be their fate at the hands of a much larger group of less advanced players.what if instead a titan were a tool for an advanced player to lead a group of 300 pilots from losec to try for their fortune in 0.0? what if titans were the central pillar of a nomadic lifestyle in space where your ability to be where you are depends on your ability to defend that pillar? would you, as an advanced player, enjoy the experience of affording that opportunity?"
"*cringes*and this thread was doing so well... what with the death star references, invoking images of darth vader and destroying planets and mon calamari cruisers...and then you had to come along, trying to incite the parental instincts of the pirates? you do realize who you're talking to, right?you can't appeal to their sense of humanity. you can't encourage mentorship, or taking those less fortunate players \"under their wing\". and you most certainly can't expect them to provide a means for anyone to advance... unless in doing so, it should benefit the pirate as well.i came to eve thinking it would be something open ended as well. i thought that some players might entertain themselves with mining and production, while others might venture out to the deepest reaches and battle one another for control of the galaxy...and then... i played a while. and i discovered that those bloodthirsty and vindictive players who weren't hugged enough as children, amuse themselves by tormenting everyone within reach. they flip the miners, not realizing that they wouldn't have ships, modules, or ammo if it weren't for the fruits of the miner's labor. they sacrifice the cheapest ships they can muster, to destroy haulers who made the mistake of thinking high security means \"secure\". and about those \"deepest reaches\"... well, they just camp the entryway and loiter day and night waiting for a sucker to snipe.so no, i don't think you'll encourage much compassion from titan pilots. because they have come looking to be \"king of the mountain\". and they have done so, in bringing as many titans to a fight as they can. \"don't bring a knife to a gun fight\" has, in very little time by comparison, become \"don't bring a gun to a doomsday weapon fight\".what the supporters of this thread are asking for, isn't a mechanic through which the far too wealthy alliances can help raise a new generation of pilots.what we're asking for, is to set the record straight. to put titans back in their rightful place. as a support craft, and perhaps with a devastating weapon, but not one that is simply spammed repeatedly until one side is completely wiped from the map.whether those players intended on being the cutthroat, sanguineous sociopaths they have grown to be is irrelevant. the matter at hand is the fact that a nuke in every household needs to be stopped. titans have become too costly and too destructive, and it's only sensible that people would move to put a stop to them."
"if you want to make titans fleet support craft, make it so that they don't do lethal damage to ships, but make it easy to deploy a titan on grid with your support forces.if you nerfed the damage amount to ~50k with max titan skills, any bs with a dc ii and a lse/plate could tank it, as well as some bcs, the dd would not become a weapon to kill ships, but rather weaken many of them, as well as kill off support and drones. i think there is a 10 second delay on dd activation, but it should be upped to 15, so all support have a good chance to warp out. this would make it so that a dd would no longer eliminate a fleet, but rather force support off grid and the remaining battleships retreat or get popped in short order.to allow the dd to be used with it's fleet on grid, make it a targetable weapon. the titan would target a ship in the enemy fleet or a star gate and fire it, causing the origin to be around the ship it targeted.the one downside of this system is that titans would always be protected by their support fleet in this fleet, giving them ample time to warp out while support ships were being killed, and would probably make titans even more unkillable."
"huge emphatic yes!! doomsdays deter so many real fights its just tragic.xttz's suggestions are also worth strong consideration."
"1 titans were meant to be the flagship of the armada. take a look at the empyrean age banner... a single titan on each side. but lately the tactic is to deploy a dozen at once. i think they're already \"easy to deploy\".2 nerfing the damage is one approach. making the attack directional is another. as for the delay, i think it's a bit closer to an hour between shots. however, when you bring 12 titans, and chain one after another... there's no more limitation.3 one thought circulating was to make the dd a focused weapon while the titan is in \"ship mode\", and then allow the aoe once it went into \"station mode\".4 fleets should be protecting their titans, and not the other way around. titans should be a massive support craft... not sent in droves to clear the field.if one were so inclined, as to take a few of the suggestions floating about...a titan jumps in... and immediately the fleet starts receiving gang boosts. the largest and most painful opposing ship is identified, and a giant angry blast streaks across space to take it out picture the death star. then the titan retreats a bit, or not... and starts to take up roots. little doors, blinking lights, all sorts of pretty premium animation insert spaceballs movie reference and the \"ship\" has become a mobile \"station\".now the fleet is able to retreat within the shields of the titan. that's not to say that it has billions worth of shields to protect them... but they do have a moment to repair before the fleet overwhelms the protection. once the shields go down, then the fleet is open to attack once again. before the last bit of shields fails, the titan releases a giant wave of energy to assault the surrounding fleet. not enough to kill everyone, but those who survive still feel the sting.however, that also means that the titan is down to armor as well.the opposing fleet sends in af and hac, which use their tactical sensors to locate the soft spots on the underbelly of the titan. and with a barrage of fire, the titan's high slot functions are disabled. no more dd beam, and no more gang boosts. the fleet pressed their defense, as the wounded titan jumps for safety.ehh?"
"i feel you. i feel you.but just hear me out. does **** cheney perform more acts of evil as a shotgun wielding old man with bad aim, or as vice president of the united states?in all honesty, if you want to be a menace single handedly, you're almost no more than a brat in a game with no rules. brats just don't have to worry about insurance and security standings.i'm aware of the play style and sensibilities of the eve community, but to really take it over the top, you need an army of minions, and you need them to be as effective as you can make them.darth vadar was cool, but emperor palpatine was f*!&%#*@ unbelievable compared to his apprentice. one wields a lightsaber. the other wielded armies upon armies of stormtroopers and darth vadar.so, you see, to be all you can be, even as a pirate amongst pirates, you need a tool for corralling and unleashing an army of pirates."
"i support changing stuff that sucks."
"ofc it will ffs. the point is currently titans are not that big a problem. what is worrying is they are being built a lot faster than killed and so its gonna be routine to see 20 titan fleets in the top 5 entities in eve. you really want to see 5 - 10 capitals 1 shotted per 5 or 10 minutes? a 100 man capital fleet would be decimated in under an hour.think!"
"i personally think that the jump gate noise is the best part of eve! please make jump gate noise appear randomly and louder and more often!i am sure it would bring much joy to people and even some other whining would cease!?"
"yeah! like that giant beam that fires off! make it actually fly through space... and randomly collide with ships and stations and stuff! and they instantly get vaporized! zap! troz! pew! boom! narf! kerpowey!"
"making it so in order to be good at the game you have to give up your daytime job sounds like a great idea.how about increasing the taxes when you change an order, then you have to actually think about order placements instead of just blindly undercutting the next guy by 0.01 isk"
"while at times i have been frustrated by the 0.01isk game. overall i think it should stay the way it is. it is a harsh place we live in, and this adds to the harshness.the only thing that might make even a bit of sense is increasing the broker fee's a bit when you modify an order, and even that i am not so sure of."
"there is no such thing as market pvp. there are 2 kind of players: the i have a lot of spare time and i am doing the 0.01 isk game kind and the i have deep pockets and i am gonna mess up your market kind. now, like all the cool kids they needed an interesting cool name for those activities. and they called it market pvp cause if it has pvp in it, it's uberlicious.and yes, i am one of the later kind"
"i believe such environments would be a meaningful addition to the game. it might also be a tool that could limit blobs some."
"perhaps i did twist your words and i suppose it was a little immature. i have no desire to waste energy on a pointless internet argument and marcus gideon is a big boy so i'll just apologise here.i'm sorry.moving on...while seeing all the jita alts squirm as huge numbers of ion storms come crashing down on them would be hugely entertaining when observed from a distance, if you actually needed to go to jita, they'd become a real pain.the reason i'm concerned about this is that if a feature is introduced whose primary purpose is to annoy people or if it only seems that way then the forums will be swamped with people demanding its removal. the devs end up wasting time that could have been spent more productively.as before, this topic has my tentative support."
"please yes."
"i support this."
"at least let the anchoring skill mean something other than requiring it at 5 before you can use starbase defense modules."
"agreed"
"whoops - ah yes, there is an existing thread."
"so i've been thinking about all the things that i dislike about eve, and have somethings to say, lets start.on titansso i was thinking about the advantage of titans in cynojammed systems guarding cynojammers, if used properly, the cynojammer should be basically, unkillable. so i came up with 4 ideas, 2 of which is elegant, the other 2 of which suck.1. make a ship that suicides into supercapitals and does massive damage sucks2. make a ship that absorbs all damage delt from and to a specific area like a shield sucks3. give af's an ability that disables supercapital systemselegant4. make it so titans can't doomsday in cynojammed systems profoundon posesposes suck and are soul destroying, there are already topics on this.on sovright now the way sov is done is uniform, and well, the worst part of eve. so, i've thought of some ways to make it more interesting.1. change sovereignty so it isn't always based off of poses. for example make it so some systems you have to do something like attack a complex, or find a beacon in a system through exploration, hell or even play some sort of hard core capture the flag in order to get sovereignty to switch over. not very well thought out2. make it so there are more resources that can be exploited in systems throughout 0.0 and lowsec that aren't at moons that people can fight over. not complexes or exploration complexes because those are inherently flawed due to server reset timesif sovereignty is changed and the focus moves a little further from poses it will make the pos problem better.on nanosno matter what i say, it'll make me sound like a troll which isn't my intention. so i'll say this, i would have preferred ccp to have fixed lag and their physics engine, than to fix nanos to work within their limited parameters.discuss, flame me, whatever, anymore ideas would be awesome, or ideally, disagree and come up with better alternatives."
"fantastic forum selection for your thread."
"there is no rp mechanic to support this proposition. it makes sense that the guns shoot your drones, it is the most efficient way for the sentry guns to neutralise threats and make sense that shooting drones is in the guns' programming ig and irl."
"i'm not sure this should be the case all the time. the only reason solo exploration is even possible at least in 0.0 is with alliance-level infrastructure or a large time investment. i don't think it's been proven that that tradeoff is unreasonable.there really isn't a ship that provides all the roles that mining requires shotting rocks and hauling, without again some level of infrastructure or a larger time investment.it took me like 3 minutes to come up with a way to cram a probe launcher on to all the ships i would even think of bringing into a 0.0 site i.e. raven and dominix, although as this thread has taught me, i have no idea what people consider to be a viable exploration combat ship. seriously, a pilgrim?"
"this is where the misconceptions on exploration come in.0.0 exploration is not at all the same as lowsec and high sec exploration.i've ratted 0.5 multi-battlecruiser sites in a 100% t1 fit caracal before. with 4 launchers and a codebreaker in a midslot.i've ratted triple angel bs spawn belts in a pilgrim with no guns, and with a codebreaker and analyzer in the mids. though this probably isn't possible in deadspace.the point is that its not just group content or solo content, its both. just like missions, just like mining. and missions didn't have it anywhere near as inconvenient as exploration, but mission runners got their marauders, so they don't even have to go pick up their salvage boats! i'm happy for them, i know how frustrating it can be.but.. share the love!"
"i sympathize, but that's a pretty tall order.\"dear internet spaceship guys, please fix the human race. they are jerks.thanks\""
"zylawy has my nod and tip of hat.and, since it's somewhat of a good idea, this thread deserves more attention, so up you go...personally, i'd like to tone and add or remove lights/windows in places, tone the engine exhausts somewhat though, of course, you should only be able to vary the colors within a range, since they are of different tech and all that... and simply vary paintjobs. preferably through a tool, and not just by importing textures. make it a little friendlier for players.i really like the idea of a matte, black- and rust-colored and damaged-looking ship with filthy, dark orange thrusters and just a few, irate, glaring red windows and lights, prowling belts and lanes, searching for prey..."
"i want to discuss lag caused by missiles and drones.missiles: you can target them, you can blow them up with defenders, you can blow them up with smartbombs, and they possibly have to recheck their math to determine if they hit or not.what kind of lag does this cause? in large battles, what kind of effect do these things have on server performance and packet sizes? do we need missiles to be this complicated? do we even want missiles to be this complicated?drones: most ships that use drones, spit out 5 of them. i'm wondering the same thing as with missiles, but i believe i already know the answer. i've witnessed fights with many carriers, i've seen how much worse the lag is between normal fights, and fights with carriers and moms spitting out ridiculous amounts of drones.so, is it necessary to have 5 separate objects deployed for 1 weapon system? if 1 drone were the equivalent of 5 in terms of hp and damage, would this not be an acceptable compromise for the sake of performance?in the special case of carriers and moms, instead of additional drones to deploy you'd have huge drone hp and damage bonuses.i just don't see why its necessary to deploy 5/10/15 drones. i know they cause lag, why not just simplify the damn things for the sake of performance?this has been posted before many times, but sporadically in threads not focusing on performance, mostly its been talked about in threads about nerfing carriers and such.so i just want to discuss the concerns about how drones and missiles effect performance for a change."
"i am not going to reiterate too much of the post that i made above. so i'm just going to say that to me, it seems that only the polycarbs need reining in, and a few stacking penalties added or adjusted. the implants should be left alone. why? because it's not the fits or rigs that are the real problem. the microwarps are.take away the mwds' enormous speed factor, and/or try to sync up ship tracking and missile speeds and explosion velocities. certain frigates and interceptors should be able to outrun standard missiles, a few cruisers be able to outrun cruise missiles, etcetera. but the extremes of speed that are right now need to be cut, clipped and balanced out."
"of course we read it. it's subject to change based on player input. why do you think players are doing so much inputting?"
"it would be really nice if you guys would bring up the problems with minmatar battleships, capitals and the problems with projectiles in generalat least artillery in one of those open slots..."
"i eat babies they are tastyno, really. check this **** out. i am really, really, really trying to be constructive here. before you people go and start knocking the walls down."
"your link is extremely broken."
"i propose that the behavior of csm members be brought up at this meeting. arrogance, and outright personal attacks should not be acceptable from someone in the csm, especially someone that chairs the program. the csm has already lost the faith of many, and something needs to be done to even remotely start building up a reputation as something useful and worth paying attention to.the first step would be to take action and swiftly kick the guilty parties rear out the door.evidence that there is a problem can be found here: multiple pages of trash from jade constantine"
"years ago before parliament was televised live sometimes i'd tune into it live on radio. the insults, name calling, stupid noises and the utter lack of respect to the speakers was unbelievable at times and i'm sorry to say it but it seems the csm is like this the majority of the time or it certainly comes across this way.basicly until the elected behave with more decorum and profesionalism the majority of the eve subscribers will have very little faith in the csm. possibly this is why only a small percentage of the subscribers didn't vote in the first place because they didn't want to be bothered with all the pettiness they knew would follow. unfortunately it looks as if they are right which is a big shame because i feel this was/could have been a step in the right direction."
"this is the thread where ruleofbone and the ex veto guys suggested that the current csm be disbanded and replaced with an unelected group of \"verone, rells, eddz and some guy with glasses from eve tv\" to ensure that ruleofbone would have the \"dark and dangerous\" eve he wanted? then when some people called him on how stupid that idea was the veto guys started crying about the standards of elected officials actually having the poor taste to come and say that a stupid idea was a stupid idea?short answer is \"no\". if you want an issue on the csm agenda make an issue and get a csm to support it. no support for rule's shortcutting of democratic decision-making here."
"wow, you're twisty mctwistington.it's nothing like that. it's a thread where you dismiss people's opinions because they're \"not players, they're whiners\" and therefore not worthy of your golden stare."
"and you start the personal insults here as well?if you happened to actually, you know, read anyones replies instead of just assuming things and making an ass out of yourself you would realize two things: noone ever once insulted you until you started the ****ing match, and even then the insults were nothing in comparison to the trash you were provoking others with. and two: nowhere did anyone once say that they themselves should be put in the place of the csm. if i recall, half the people in that thread believe the csm is a farce and wouldn't want to participate anyways. nice try though.but the simple fact remains, if you truly believe in the csm, and what it stands for, you should do the best thing for it and remove yourself. you lose supporters every day with your pathetic behavior and you are driving the csm into the ground. and considering how most people think the csm is a farce in the first place, you shouldn't be treating what little supporters you have that way in the first place. i can't speak for anyone else, but after reading countless threads i can only assume i am not alone in saying i will never support the csm as anything until you are gone from it jade."
"outcome of todays meeting. full chatlog of meeting 8 is here. 1. the \"nano-nerf\" implications as per dev blog - popular issuecsm voted 4-4 not to escalate or make any kind of collective statement on the current speed patch on sisi.2. musical instruments in ambulation - banecsm voted to escalate this proposal.3. specific proposal for 0.0 sovereignty revamp - jade csm voted against escalating this proposal.4. remove ship maintenance bay restriction - inannacsm voted to escalate this proposal.5. covert cyno fields should ignore cyno jammers - jade/tuskocsm voted to escalate this proposal.6. turn titans into mobile stations - banecsm voted to escalate this proposal.7. remote rep criminal flagging is broken - jadecsm voted to escalate this proposal.8. autopilot options in fw - avoid enemy sov - inannacsm voted to escalate this proposal.9. covert jump bridge activation range too short - jadecsm voted to escalate this proposal.10. changing carriers combat roles - banemeeting adjourned before the vote because we slipped beneath the quorum with people needing to leave. issue will be revoted on the next agenda. 11. prime fiction for the 3rd bloodline more needed - jadedelayed till next meeting12. motd for fleet/gang window - jadedelayed till next meeting"
"while i appreciate you using your corp forums to host the chatlogs, can we please go abck to serenity posting them on the eve-csm site? even a link to the jf threads, so i can find them more easily, would be appreciated. as for the vote people care about, i find it rather disappointing no decision was made. if you don't say something now, you really won't have a chance in two weeks, let alone two months."
"serenity is on holiday at the moment so there won't be any eve-csm.com updates for a bit. sorry its inconvenient but its the only option i can think for posting them at the moment. i know. i was very disappointed as well. i felt it was a big missed opportunity and a real shame."
"can you ask ccp where the missing items are and when they will be introduced --stuff like codebreaker ii, micro aux core ii etcalso when are pos towers and mods going to be upgraded to t2"
"i understand that the ideas out forward in this post are to bring the divide in cap ship balance closer for shield and armour tanking...however, introducing a new set of implants with +shield amount is totally unfaesable given the prevalance of the passive shield tank on other ships.a drake already has no problems passively tanking 1000 dps. imagine the strength of that passive tank with +50% shields.so although this idea may be good for capitals, thought needs to be put in to how the changes would affect other ship types/classes."
"could we get a 2nd class of decryptor that decreases lab time --for example to run a cruiser invention job takes 2 days--what i think the game needs is a decryptor that decreases lab time by 25 50 75 and 100% so u can run jobs faster"
"1 post this in features + ideas or assembly hall - jpsc is for discussions about csm processes, not for specific ideas. 2 that's a terrible idea."
"as many others before you, your greed will get the best of you ccp. rome has fallen........."
"i agree they should be at least as fast as their tech 1 counterparts. its stupid that they aren't. every single hac is faster than their tech 1 counterparts, but afs are still all slower than tech 1 frigates. it isn't right imo. seriously, if afs were nothing more than normal frigates with better resists, a couple extra slots, a little more grid/cpu/shield/armor, and an extra damage bonus, they'd be fine.they don't need any silly roles. just be a superior frigate."
"i'll pretty much speak my opinion outright: the ships are fine. overall, apart from the frequent whine, it seems like the community would perhaps like a few more hulls, or the ability to customize and individualize details, decals or color schemes. that is the feedback that i have gotten over the last few months.it is when it comes to game elements that things need balancing. most specifically speed. the overwhelming emphasis on ship type, the fantastic speeds attainable with the modifications present, the sheer induction of redundancy to certain ship types or strategies, as far as i have been able to deduce, all have more or less to do with the abnormal levels of velocity attainable by ships in eve today. it's gone far enough that it's past strategy. it has made speed such an element that extreme emphasis is put on it, and has removed a great many tactics and a great deal of thinking and cleverness from the game. and there is a single certain something at the root of this.assault frigates are overlooked. cruisers go at 4-5 km/s, past the level where the eve interface remains practical, not to mention many ships' turning radius. many cruisers are seen as ineffectual. missile ships are hotly debated, and depending on the situation either helpless or your only salvation. heavy assault ships other than those capable of clocking extreme velocities are disregarded as useless. why?microwarpdrives.the nano issue is slowly being addressed, but it will not be enough, and yet it will be too much when you take minmatar and blaster ships into account. one cannot ignore that for all the problems caused by that, it is, in spite of their penalties, microwarpdrives that offer the last and largest factor of speed that has caused these extremes to arise.cut the efficiency of microwarpdrives to just below twice as powerful as afterburners, and much of the signature penalty with it, but not the capacitor penalty. and increase missile velocities, until only frigates and interceptors can outrun standard missiles, and few cruisers have a chance of outrunning cruise missiles. or, if this simply makes microwarpdrives themselves overlooked, have them removed from the game entirely.speed is the issue. it has come to overshadow everything else, eliminating or hamstringing vital game elements, and it is time that it is toned down. but it needs to be done the right way, and with the right and real problem in mind.in addition, here is my proposed alternative solution."
"this is an awesome idea!"
"full support here, idea is awesome.i think ccp need to look at restricting how the pos could be used and what for, so as not to make outposts redundant, but it looks awesome as a concept.i'd like to see more about it tbh."
"hot damn, that was quite a presentation. i hope to see all this implemented in the near future!"
"oh yeah this get a thumbs up!"
"fully supporting this. let me have just extra space on the second screen. not a span mode with the ship right in the middle between left and right monitor."
"supported"
"but meeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeehi don't have amazing shield skills!!!! if they make the nid shield tanker it will add a whole slew of skills i need to train. =/i still support a boost but there has got to be a better way......"
"bump"
"i can imagine the boredom that establishing a fully loaded and operational pos must inflict. i'm toying with the notion of a simple research pos, and it sounds like it might suck.but... you do realize that you're erecting an entire space station. and once it is placed, then you are allowing the nuclear reactor at the core to power up and begin supplying the various factories and warehouses attached.i could possibly see a ~slight~ reduction... but making an entire station spring to life in the same amount of time it takes to convince your secure trash can not to go anywhere... is a bit rediculous.perhaps if the whole dead horse, or whatever it is... idea were implemented. where you could actually see the station slowly coming together, piece by piece... then you would understand the necessity for the lengthy build time.little builder drones, flitting back and forth, slowly assembling the station... rather than just pieces floating and eventually a light turns from green to red."
"i don't think i've seen this many consecutive supports in a thread before. topic has my full support."
"against!plz ccp dont nerf our last defence vs blob."
"against the nerf in it's current form. the entire game moves to slow on sisi now."
"against as presented."
"against."
"against as presented"
"nano ftw!!!!"
"against, most definitely."
"this. i am extremely disappointed in the csm reps who voted to put this off and are potentially going to do nothing about this issue.the entire point of the csm was/is to bring the ideas/concerns of the player base to the ccp devs. there are now several thousand votes both for and against telling you to do just that. you then turn around and vote directly to not do your job. all i can say is: wtf.the general consensus of the council was that \"it is too early\" to say/do anything about this. absolute bullocks.fact: the \"against\" vote poll is winning by more than 2 to 1 at the time of this typing, and has been ever since it was posted.does this give the csm any sort of a clue as to the majority feelings of the player base concerned by this issue?some people claim that the vote has been scewed with alts towards the \"against\". but, can't the \"for\" people use alts too? or are they just more honest by nature than the \"against\" people? fact: read any 20 pages, hell, read any 10 pages of the \"against\" poll and the general consensus becomes so obvious that a pre-schooler could sort it out. most people is both the \"for\" and \"against\" poll when considered as a whole agree that a change is needed to speed. but, specifically in the \"against\" poll, many point out that the devs are going way to far and considering too many changes to very basic game play elements.am i totally insane, or is this, or is this not, more than enough information to do your jobs and go to ccp with the idea that they need to at the very least severely reduce the scope of the changes they are considering?bottom line: to those reps who voted for moving forward with this issue: thank you for keeping the faith with your constituents. to those reps who voted directly not to do your jobs: shame on you. and, good luck getting my vote for re-election."
"against. 1. perhaps a nerf to vessels going \"ludicrous\" speeds stacking penalties maybe. 2. dont touch mwds, and webs3. boost abs and afs4. leave masses of ships alone.5. keep new scram module, although it may need some tweaking.this patch kills tactics, the game will be broken simply to address issues with ships that are a billion if not billions to fly and are not close to as common as these nuking changes suggest. simply adding certain stacking penalties would prevent people from going \"ludicrously\" fast. hit and run tactics should include other ships besides frigates. there are already ships, especially with the new scram mod, that are effective at taking down ludicrous fast ships anyway and their cost is a mere fraction of the cost of the superfast ship. you are also really killing the role of blasterboats that need the speed, reconsespecially the huginn/rapier as its role is a frig killer, the vaga would be silly now as well. i think if these changes are enacted we will see more nerfs to \"attempt\" to correct the imbalances/inadequacies spawned by these changes. nerfing launchers next, then people will gripe about sniping, meanwhile the gangs/tactics you will see will be very one dimensional compared to what existed before. tons of frig/some ecm ships, with sniping bss, or just simply mass blobs at the gates. many hacs and recons are rendered broken. a megathron blaster boat will be screwed. also, quite a slap in the face to someone that has invested a hell of a lot of training for mindlinks money given to you i might add only to have the speed bonus stack such that any ship that is \"fast\" wont get much of a benefit, same can be said of snake implants, and if you rely on both you are synergetically screwed. there is nothing wrong with cruisers being able to go from 2.5 - 5 km/s without spending a billion isk. these speeds are very reasonable to be able to counter against. if you feel you need to nerf webs so much, you should give a web effectiveness bonus to those ships in which webbing was its role, not just a maurader are you kidding?"
"against."
"i endorse this..."
"against!"
"againstboost anti-nano, for example increase web range, is better than nerf nano.nano is need to be rebalanced, but not so extremely."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against,unless ccp rethings some changes on all ships that will get pwned and nerfed to oblivion as these could only \"deliver\" in nano-setups. on the other hand, this nano-craze should be stopped, yet not by driving all fast-ship-combat and speed tanks to extinction."
"against"
"the only way to fight a nano setup is to use another nano setup or a huginn and a bit of luck.nanoships can take on huge numbers of non nano ships without taking any damage.so obviosley broken its not even funny.rebalance speed tanking."
"voting only against the web nerf."
"very dissapointed in the csm !!!! you are considering your own opinions on the subject over the input generated by the pro-con the vote/poll. i tought your mission was to voice the feeling of the community not your own??? against / pro nerf = 2/1 i think its clear !!!you seem to think that we all just vote pro-con without trying it out on sisi. well you are wrong, i think there are plenty of posts with concrete evidence that this nerf is bad, and will eliminate a certain type of warfare as it is no longer a viable option with the proposed changes.ccp seems to think that all nano pilots use hg snakes and use t2 poly's on. i think they can find out, if they wanted to, on how many pilots acutally use this type's of mods and implants in actual combat. but i'm convinced it will be a minorty. the typical nano pilot is using t1 poly's, t2 nano's and overdrives, and maybe a low cost speed mod implant. this is what should be looked into that the typical setup by most nano pilots remains a viable option. not nerf everything that the ridicilous stuff that most can't offord remains a half baked solution.go do your job csm !!!! the vote tells you exactly what you should do !!!!"
"againstmwd being switched off when scrambled - this will kill all nanoships, because when you want to kill the target, you put your warp disruptor on him. this means he can put warp disruptor back on you. so, this nerf will affect every engagement where the target is not jammed. why mwd was created in the first place.decrease in web strength - you want to nerf nanoships, so you want to nerf ships that counter them. my logic is lost there you do that and then we'll see how you will let nanohac, going full speed under mwd, stop and still be within your web range. you might think about rapiers being overpowered - then think about falcon, isn't it overpowered as well then? why not nerf all the ships to the point of where all the ships in game will have the same characteristics, because it's somehow fair.by making overdrives and nanofibers stack, you'll do no harm to vagas and rapiers they usually fit only overdrives. but, you'll nerf ships like curse, zealot and ishtar which usually fit mixture of overdrives and nanofibers 3 overdrives, 2 nanofibers for ishtar, so that the minmatar ships will be even more superior in speed and this will create even more disballance.almost every single patch ccp nerfs something - why not improve something that counters the stuff that you want to nerf?ps: arazu used to be a great ship. ask how many people fly them now. please don't make the same to the rest of the ships in eve, where an uber ship will be something like navy issue osprey :"
"against"
"against!"
"against"
"keep it up, get everyone in on this party and lets show the whinny b1t3chs whose boss"
"1.0"
"against current proposal for : \"i don't get why just one or two of these changes couldn't rebalance everything: make scrams shut off mwds, which gives gallente recons a role, and nerf the polycarbs back in to line with every other rig out there.whoah... suddenly fixes the nano and does wonders for the speed problem!or.just nerf the stacking penalties, but leave everything else as it is.but doing that on top of nerfing the hell out of pretty much everything that gives speed.... is just over the top.\"as a fix"
"against am i late?"
"against"
"against!!"
"against"
"i didn't read the whole thread, so it may be posted already.besides a skill queue and dual training, i'd rather like to see a mechanism such as \"train skill from level 1 till level 5 nonstop\".also i don't think forcing players to log in after each level of a skill is completed encourages players to actually play the game more often."
"this please, skills should be stackable up to 24 hours is passed imo, this way if you log in at a similar time each day you have the best chance of being available to switch.you should be able to stack as many skills and with a total duration of forever with the proviso that when 24 hours has been passed you can no longer add to the queue, so the last one you add could be a really long one, but the ones before it on the queue are all small."
"i agree on the dual training thing.2 skills training at half speeds."
"hell yes, how hard can it be to code?"
"i vote yes please put them back please 30s atleast"
"i like the ideas. increasingly larger hull classes should be about increasing dps and physical tank capabilities. let the newer pilots in smaller ships have some viability in a fight.and having a use for those damnable afterburners would be great!*support*"
"support."
"for"
"support"
"im supporting"
"supported"
"yes."
"very much needed."
"show must go on!!!"
"turn on"
"yes"
"vote for"
"i support the nano nerfbut not the web nerf :p"
"the only way to fight a nano setup is to use another nano setup or a huginn and a bit of luck.nanoships can take on huge numbers of non nano ships without taking any damage.so obviosley broken its not even funny.rebalance speed tanking."
"i was always thinking that some of the ships just goin too fast in game. even when i did fly nano ships my self.so bring it on."
"all for more power to tank setups and counters to speed."
"slow your roll beavis!"
"i vote for the nano nerf. it will bring more balance to the game."
"1.0"
"support"
"nerf my ass"
"eve doesn't need godmode, adapt or die."
"while some of the changes are not balanced correctly but for this we have sisi, i<U+FFFD>m for this nerf."
"definately for"
"against"
"support"
"support partially. inties and frigs should avoid damage using speed or/and low sig. also, nerfing nano ships would support blobs. and blobs are bad."
"i would like to see local go. it's gamey, it's out of character and it is generally abused in a way it was not designed for.however, you do understand that players are also humans. real life humans. most of the time one just wants to jump through 5 systems to go from station to station to pick something up, it doesn't necessarily mean he/she undocks in order to have the adventure of their lives, and generally, people most of the time don't have the time to have the time of their lives...local should be replaced by something that is more in character and that gives certain concrete advantages when flying through your alliance's space. i do agree it can't be completely safe but owning space does lose some of it's meaning when there is no way of flying through it in relative safety. maybe a pos module you can anchor with sov 1 and provides a number doesn't have to be names of friendlies, hostiles and neutrals in the system to your overview. it won't be out of character since the module supposedly could scan the system every 30 seconds to get ship signatures or something. if one is flying in uncontested space... well, that's always something of an adventure anyway.local could be kept as a chat where only the name of someone talking shows, but there is no list with portraits on the right side of it.it also has to be an automatic warning system. it's no fun loosing a warp-in because you had to roll a cigarette"
"well that would make mining a dead profession. atleast ratters jump from belt to belt to kill new spawns."
"you have to read the whole thing. replacing current local, you would have an alarm functionality on scanner. almost assured there will be specialized ships or modules for this when you really need it sitting in one spot mining. you can always put people on the gates. always scan a system you enter to mine."
"/support"
"make it so that when corp a wardecs corp b, 1 random player from corp b has a navigational systems malfunction and overload and his ship and pod blow up right away."
"what's wrong with pay-to-grief? this is eve, for christ's sake.it's all about bullying the weak, beating them up, taking their stuff and making them move.noah and matt need to go to another game if they think so-called 'griefing' isn't an intrisic and essential part of eve. if there is a genuine issue about harassment of new players, that's for the gms to deal with. otherwise, anything goes.breaking your opponents spirit is more important than blowing up their ships. the existing war mechanics serve admirably in doing so. that's how it's supposed to be.i am now concerned about eve's future if this is what we have to look forward to. don't go down this road, ccp."
"corp a wardecs corp b, the 24 hour waiting period begins. immediately, corp b can advertise their war responsibility in a manner similar to the current contract system globally searchable. once advertised, any other corp can make an offer to take on the war responsibility of corp b in the form of isk required, and timeframe in which their offer must be accepted. corp b then reviews the offers from the third party corporations, and chooses the most attractive offer in this case, corp c, and pays the fee required by corp c. once corp c's offer has been accepted by corp b, the war is flagged as mutual and a 24 hour notification period commences. at the end of that 24 hour period, concord shifts the war from being between corp a and corp b to being between corp a and corp c. the war can then be terminated as a mutual war might normally be terminated from that point on.to deter corporations from creating shell corporations to \"sink\" all their wardecs, corp b has to pay a \"filing fee\" to concord equal to the fee corp a initially paid for the wardec simply to post their war responsibility in the first place before any offers can be made by potential corp cs. furthermore, the costs of filing a wardec would be changed as follows: the current base price for wardecs would be multipled by the ratio of members in the attacking corporation to the defending corporation, with that sum added to an arbitrary \"bribe\" fee corp a can choose to pay to make the possible \"filing fee\" for corp b more expensive. this fee would then be paid weekly, adjusted for the fluctuation in corp members over that period, plus the variable \"bribe\" fee paid by corp a.mutual wars would not be subject to cost multiplication according to the ratio of corporation members, but would still be subject to \"bribe\" fees - potentially from both sides.any corporation belonging to an alliance would be immune to war dec individually, though the alliance could obviously have war declared against them. under this system the base cost for declaring war against an alliance would be equivalent to declaring war against a corporation. the current system of higher war dec costs would not be needed, as in declaring war against an alliance you're declaring war against all of its members - with the larger multiplier already making it a less attractive war dec target.under this system, large corps declaring on small corps would pay a larger fee to declare war, and the smaller corp would have to pay a similarly large fee to put their war responsibility up for sale and \"make it go away\". smaller corps declaring war on larger corps pay smaller fees in general, but are more inexpensive to auction off to mercenaries willing to take on the wardec. this makes sense, as between two companies, the one with the larger resources should realistically have an easier time getting their way within the bureaucracy. the corporation declaring war is given a means of making the war unattractive to \"sell off\", but at a cost. similarly, the defending corporation is given a means to avoid the war, but also at a cost."
"well yes, this is eve, which is why they generally try to prevent pure griefing. eve is a game of industry, war, conquest, politics, piracy. griefing is what ruins a game, not builds it up,.. though much of this discussion is going over ways to be able to strike back at griefers, stopping them from hiding from their own war.... which increases pvp and ccp really wants to go down that road.the existing war mechanic is broken, or at least it is not used for it's intended purpose very much, thus it should probably be fixed.the control tower idea sounds really great.. gives a nice juicy target to the defenders and it drops griefing while makes real wars more interesting."
"wth happened to eve not looking like a cold hard place but being one? there is a way of grouping together without forming a cooperation, its called a chat channel. i hate the idea of npc corps as it is and now your going to extend it?many many players will remember the first corp they were in that was war decced, for many its the first taste of pvp that they ever had. it gives a corp scope, direction and pulls a unit together. sometimes it breaks them. that's eve.i wholeheartedly disagree with the idea that a corp should be able to organize and build without becoming a target. there are plenty of ways to avoid war dec's, all of them well knowni am honestly very angry about this."
"the trouble with this is you could never fight outnumbered. how would a 15 man hit and run corp designed to take down logistics and disrupt operations stop the 1500 man alliance they just war decced rolling a fleet in and shutting them down."
"any game with infinite lives and magical infinite farm-able resources is not a 'cold hard place'true some of these ideas fall into the category of pointlessly safe, but others give some real consequences to the aggressor which is something eve tends to lack.outside that, the system has needed rebalancing for years. 2m/week? that used to be a big number but just isn't anymore"
"true, but it still gives them more of a chance to fight back then they have now. at the moment there is little risk in starting a war, esp if you don't really have an in-corp logistics wing.though i think the place this would really help would be things like small pirate corps deccing industrial heavy corps since a few pirates in cruisers can cripple industrial ops for weeks with very little risk since the can just fly in, disrupt, then dock. with the control tower that industrial corp could hire mercs or go fit themselves and go after an actual target.i guess a better way of putting it, right now the aggressors have a target but the defenders do not. a tower evens that out a bit."
"1. alliances can have more than 1 commander center.2. you can upgrade the idea with this rule: the corporation that lost the command center have 72 hours to pay and make another command center. this will make very difficult to actually shut down a very big corporation, but hit hard the griefers that make corp just for grief.also, an alliance do not need to declare war to fight in 0.0, so i personally do not see the problem.i have put down the general idea... i know for first that if oyu look for anyd etail it have to be changed... but the general idea is clearly the only one that will solve the problem here."
"fully support this idea. in my view, local is completely unrealistic and the game's single most used exploit. it has the effect of strongly favoring some playstyles while making others unplayable that would otherwise be perfectly viable. it goes against eve's very nature as a realistic combat and economy simulator.that said, i also think local could be retained in its current form in high sec. like others have pointed out, that would be way more realistic while allowing for even more playstyle diversity than eliminating local altogether would.how about:high sec: local works like it does today everywherelow sec: local has no auto-discovery; however, constellation channel doesdeep space: neither local nor constellation have auto-discovery"
"supported."
"didnt read through all the replys but i belive a stock market is not a possibility unless ccp is ready to punish people for fraud. without that, a stock market will always be some half assed attempt just to look nice and wont really produce any good tbh.maby you could make some special rules around corporations that list their corp into the stock market to prevent people from scamming. stock market needs investors and they wont come unless they can not only trust the corp but also know that if he trys to run off with the isk, he will be dealt with.i know ccp wont punish people for scamming, and i support that. however a stock market cant work without a little bit of law."
"until eve can handle a rights issue with shares, then going any further is rather pointless."
"this is much more in line with what i believe a stock market in eve should look like. i would support something along these lines."
"the difference from eve and enron is that the goverment deals with companys that go bankrupt and puts the people responsible behind bars.unless theres something to prevent people from walking away with isk that they got for shares, i dont belive there can be a succesful stock exchange. however if ccp would be willing to monitor this and deal with stock fraud differently than the regular scammers, there might be a chance."
"i posted that in another thread and tough it would be better here maybe \"ong time lurker 1st time poster casual gamer yada yada... here s for the background.now i was reading one of the numerous minmatar tread and as usualalways the arty subject ..;then i had an epiphany, a mental sound picture of what i d like arty to beblam blam blam blam...then the sound of silence - rince repeat -how about keeping the clip size the same and increase the rof, and by increase i mean like faster than ac.that would make some kind of huge salvo giving back some alpha strike-like capacity, i don t mean real alpha strike but if the 10 round clip is emptied in something like 20 sec ...it s almost an alpha no?the small clip keeping the dps in check because of reload.wouln t that give some potential for hit and run to the matari and....just think of the beautifull sound razzthat said i plaid guilty of not having run any numbersso? am i the only nutter that would like the idea ?edited for clarity and to better explain myself and yes maybe i should have posted in the other threads...the length of it scared me\""
"we don't need to revise or boost the space artillery, because it's pretty ridiculous to start with.i propose switching artillery for an alternative, more plausible weapons system, useful for hit-and-run strikes. basically, one where the bullets are coated with compressed waste slag from the ship's reactor. upon impact and explosion, superheated nuclear slag is scattered across the enemy ship's hull, causing a great load of residual damage over time.this sort of 'slag cannon' weapon would still retain the powerful single strike of artillery, but introduce a strong, plausible reason for executing single strikes and then drawing back to keep from taking damage."
"this has my full support."
"well, i play on a mac exclusively, and as a subscriber i've been expecting premium to appear."
"i play on my pc, but my wife plays on our mac and she has experienced a number of very annoying and game breaking bugs with the client. i support this; all we want is a little open communication."
"rigs are great. the concept of permanent ship implants to specialise your vessel, as well as introducing a new market in salvage and doing away with the daft old loot can system, is very good. but rigs have had their problems: where they stacked up with functions that were already modified by skills, modules, gang bonuses and boosters, they had a tendency to go too far, and doubly so where the stat in question is not stacking penalised. for example, trimarks armor hp, core defence field purgers shield hp and, inevitably, polycarbons mass. the passive tanking and nano crazes were directly related to the introduction of rigs. note for the hard of thinking: this thread isn't about nano! not pro, not anti, not related.another problem is that people tend to gravitate towards the same rigs. cccs, polycarbons, trimarks, core purgers, these probably account for the vast majority of rigs fit today. that's not specialisation, people, that's more identikit/cookie-cutter ship fitting, which isn't true to the original concept, or fun.by contrast, loads of rigs go unused  weep for the hyperspatial velocity optimiser 20% warp speed, the powergrid subroutine maximiser i think this reduces rcu cpu need, super helpful..., the targeting systems stabiliser - decloaking sensor recalibration time, and the engine thermal shielding +mwd/ab cycle time. oh, and every single drone rig. this is doubly sad, because these do things that no module, gang bonus, booster, and either 1 or 0 skills do, and thus are cool and different. how do we solve this? its as easy as 1,2,3,4,5. i know this is two harder than 1-2-3 and also doesn't rhyme. sorry1 balance rigs with similar function so that specialised is better than generalised.so what is a good rig? and what is a bad rig? a bad rig surely is anything that stacks up too much of a main statistic such that its infinitely more useful than most other rigs. a good rig is one that specialises your ship into a niche, making it win versus the same ship with no rigs, or even the same ship with bad rigs, in that same situation. example: capacitorbad rigs: ccc raw cap rechargesmc cap amountgood rigs:remote repair augmentor - remote armor rep cap usedynamic fuel valve - mwd/ab cap usewarp core optimiser - warping cap needsignal disruption amplifier - ecm/burst cap needegress port maximiser - neutraliser and energy transfer cap needenergy/hybrid discharge elutriation -hybrid/laser cap needcore defence capacitor safeguard - shield booster cap needwhy would i fit the vast majority of the second list, when i could fit a ccc and have the best cap for all purposes? that's not specialisation, folks. incidentally, i do use one of those rigs, the amazing remote repair augmentor. this is because it gives enough of a bonus on a 2-3xrr bs that it by far eclipses the use of a ccc in comparison. that is cool, specialised and useful. of course, i'm not saying we should delete ccc/smc  after all, some ships need cap for lots of things, and there would be unholy whining if they were removed. but they should be among the worst choices for cap, because they're the most generalised, the opposite of the aim of rigs. instead, boost the bonus on all the underused rigs above possibly with the exception of rr aug and egress port maximiser, as they do get used. the less useful a statistic, and thus underused the rig, the more it should get. there's no reason why all rigs should be 15-20%. for example, the warp core optimiser  you can never have so little cap you can't warp, just not very far. why not have the wco remove, i.e. -100% bonus, the warp cap need. thus its not massively useful in all pvp, but on a specialised ship e.g. a passive drake that only needs cap to warp, or a bomber that has crap warp cap need, adds a unique ability."
"a great example in the original design of this is cpu. there is no +cpu rig, but there are several that reduce cpu need for certain modules. if only they didn't suck, then they'd actually be quite used. boost them. overall, number 1 would brings rigs closer towards their original design spec, and promote many of the rarer rigs. it also goes a step towards preventing rigs making ship setups unbalanced  because the rigs that have caused the problems are the general ones, trimarks, polys, cccs.2: boost the underused rigs that do cool and unusual functions!several rigs do things that is almost nothing to do with the others, but is cool nonetheless. they also tend to be totally useless. i again bring up the hyperspatial velocity optimiser and the targeting systems stabiliser. these would be awesome if only anyone who wasn't mad ever fit one on a combat setup, ever. the hvo is useless because the vast majority of all but the longest warps is accelerating up and down from max warp speed, and that is not a rate, but a flat time, the same on all ships. its boring, and makes increasing your top warp speed a little useless. i suggest that the hvo be either +80-150% warp speed, or that it gives +40% to warp speed and acceleration time. maybe that'd be worth it on any ship you intend to travel in, or to promote guerilla warfare now that polys arent > all. the tss gives a weeny -1s recalibration on a bs with an improved cloak, a pathetic -0.5s on your recalibration in a recon or covops, and of course, a massive zero seconds on black ops and bombers, you know, the cloaking ships that are meant to actually decloak and combat stuff.if it was either -80-90% recalibration, or it affected both recal and the cloak's scan res penalty say -40% to both then it would be very useful, but only situationally, in a niche, and couldn't really be overpowered. number 2 is overall obvious: make the crap rigs cool. there's no reason to be 15-25% on all just because. that's not balance.3 drone rigs penalty has to changewhile  base cpu sounds nice for rp after all, drones are robots and you could bog down your computer with programs controlling them its actually making them utterly unused, because the bonuses are all minor, balanced, nice, but overall just not worth breaking very nice fits, especially on cpu tight boats like the ishtar or ishkur. even the mighty dominix, with excellent cpu, rarely fits anything other than maybe a sentry damage augmentor on those moderately rare sentry ii fits. seeing as there is no +all drone damage rig and quite rightly so, too generalist, there's no reason to have such a tough penalty. i suggest either  hull hp would affect gallente, but not drastically or  agility4 add new rigs that follow the rules we've already established: niche, specialised, don't stack up with existing stuff to huge modifiers, and are cool and unusual in function an example of a good rig here is the projectile ambit extension  it was the first time we could modify falloff on a ship's guns. lets do more of that! here is a list of in-game statistics that could, without causing huge balance issues, be made into rigs. none of them have an associated module or non-ship skill bonus.drone capacity no longer a dps increase now we have bandwidthturret/launcher ammunition capacitycloak velocity modifierturret signature resolutionmining laser rangemining laser cap usebomb launcher cycle timebomb hptractor beam range/speedmax locked targetsew module falloffoh, and for the love of god add a rig that increases damp/td optimal. why not specialise your curse to td snipers?"
"here is a list of similar statistics, which would also be great fun to rig. however these would need careful balance attention, as they modify more interesting and powerful stats. some of them already have skills and modules associated, but are either under-used or cannot be stacked to extremes.sensor strengthenergy vampire/neutraliser rangeenergy vampire transfer level - increase the point at which your nos starts to steal cap, e.g. my cap + 20%.ship signature radiuscap injector capacityjump drive fuel usejump drive range.smartbomb cap usesmartbomb rangethermodynamics ship-wide heatsinkscan probe strengthscan probe accuracyscan probe launcher cpu needgang mod cap needi especially like the idea that capital pilots could be tempted to go for something other than ccc. oh, and here is a list of things that are either downright mental or would require some sort of code change to mess with, but would be damn cool rigs all the same:ability to passive target while cloaked+ drone scoop rangejump harmonics +2 you can go through a blackops portal but only if your gang rigs their ships for itreduced t2 ammo penalty lolbalancefuntimewarp core strength heat-damaged modules slowly auto-repairslow auto-regen armorslow auto-regen hullseige/triage fuel needseige/triage time reduction 5 dont' forget the little stuff! penalties, skills, calibration and salvage.firstly, be careful of penalties being too uniform. armor hp on speedy ships that were often shield-extender wasn't a tough penalty, laser grid use definitely is. maybe one should be bigger than the other? secondly, why does jury rigging do nothing. while the most obvious choice is + calibration, that does have the risk of opening up some powerful setups that weren't obvious. it should do something though.penultimately; calibration: several rigs were clearly given calibration clearly designed to balance their use. obviously people are scared of high-damage setups being overpowered rigs came out not a million years after the age of the 8-heatsink gankageddon, so that could explain why the actually moderately-useless turret damage rigs are 200 calibration. this could be worth looking at  after all, nobody would use 3 damage rigs very often because they stack and do less than half the job that heatsink/gyrostab/magstab. similarly, there's example of this going to extremes  where the t1 rigs are better than the t2 because you can fit two t1, and only one t2. gravity capacitor upgrades, for example. just make the t2 double the t1 bonus, or lower the calibration on both.and lastly out of breath now, keep an eye on salvage prices, please, ccp, if you did these changes. they can fluctuate a lot, and one component being vastly expensive beyond the others is a sure sign something ain't right. lets not have another alloyed trit bar/polycarbon situation. -------------------------------------------------------------------------q: tl:dr?a: you're a cretin. but go on then:1make specialised rigs better than generalised, e.g. mwd cap use > ccc.2big boosts for cool, underused rigs that do unusual stuff3drone rigs need a better penalty, -cpu makes them unused.4new rigs, cool functions, not multiply-stacking general stats.5minor balancing to penalties, calibration and jury rigging should do something."
"that won't be enough i'm afraid. they'll need more changes to make them a viable option.honestly, what's the point of a tech ii ship that will *always* die to its tech i counterpart? the isk/usability ratio is completely out of balance here. the pre-nerfed status ccp released this ships it's one of the worst jokes in this game so far. sadly not the worst one, but coming close.i support more changes to the black ops from the list proposed by the community."
"i know i am in the extreme minority in my opinion, perhaps the sole person with my opinion but i see no reason why the black ops class should not be able to use the covert ops cloaking device when the two ships below it in class can.talk about being so paranoid about a class that you \"pre-nerf\" it to hell.....it makes no realistic sense in roleplaying.it makes no sense in practicality either. they are far weaker, and with lower damage potential than most of their tech 1 counterpats. so, what's the problem?i know, i know.... everyone wants each and every ship to have its own roll..... and ccp will blindly and moronically nerf its way to this goal; even if the servers themselves were on fire. whatever. i just think its beyond stupid that a covert ops and a recon can use a covert ops cloak, but the black ops can't.just drop all of this \"jumping\" non-sense from the class. make their damage potential a tad weaker, and give them covert ops cloak. oh, and make them not cost 650-900m a pop.... meh. no one is going to do anything about this anyway.at the very least black ops need lots of love./flame suit on"
"yes please boost them. i'm training up the 'covert' line of ships at the moment currently training for force recons, andi'd like for black ops to be useful by the time i get one."
"ccp like introducing pre-nerfed ships into the game. unfortunatly they forget to un-nerf them for years :the speed nerf hardly helps with they're bonus to cloaked speed plz take a second look at these ships."
"back ops are missing 2 arms and 2 legs. these fix's is like giving them a single thighbone upto the knee.none of them make much difference in pvp because the whole black ops concept is flawed. yes its better than nother but please for goodness sake actualyl try to fly these things in pvp.people logoff/cloak/warp toa aligned spot when they see a hostile in local, so you wont have time to warp a black ops in to the belt and lock the damm target unless the target is a noob that would die to a carcarel."
"i would be simply ecstatic if they could use covert ops cloaks. or if they would split them into combat black ops and force black ops. maybe the force black ops are can use covert ops cloaks and are immune to cyno jammers and combat black ops are a more viable pvp ship with more offense but without the ability to use covert op cloaks. meh, even if they give it a little love, it would have to be something special to get me into it... and i love my recon.fj"
"i agree with the op. 0.0 cloaking ravens are the scourge of eve, they can rat all day with next to 0 risk. local in 0.0 should be removed at all times unless you are next to a jump gate. after all jump gates should know how many people are in system and who they are."
"always support these in principle."
"let me think about it, no."
"you are incredibly delusional if you think this is true. effective blindness gives a huge advantage to whoever is the most mobile. this is almost never going to be someone doing pve. you can negate some of that advantage by seeing them on scan soon enough, but in that situation the pve guy has to be scanning constantly, whereas the hac gang that just jumped in system has to scan maybe twice.you'd need to replace local with some other passive detection method, or buff 0.0 money making enough that it's worth either bringing a gang or losing ships a lot to keep ratting or mining viable."
"i strongly support this, most especially in low sec/0.0. realism should be paramount in eve, as it is basically an advanced combat/economy simulator. the free system-wide, error-free and instantaneous scanner that is local is completely unrealistic and eliminates a number of strategy and career options that would otherwise be viable.as a reasonable compromise, maybe local should be retained in its current form only in high sec? it would make sense for concord and the sovereign empires to keep tabs on everyone entering and exiting their high sec system, and making this information publicly available.local is the game's biggest and most used exploit, as any covert ops pilot knows."
"local needs to be moved to region. should also only display personnel who talk in region chat, which after a while, they disappear much like aliance chat."
"1 minute delay entry into local chatproblem solved. if you can't find someone in that time, you shouldnt be afforded the luxury. you also shouldnt be afforded free intel.couple this with an auto updating scanner as many cycles as server can process"
"yes indeed."
"there should be limitations to the ability to detect incoming targets. to remove the local channel completely may be rather drastic, but if that's what it takes... i'd rather make it so that the communication/detection range is limited. cloaked ships shouldn't show up on either scanners or in channel, of course.the idea has my support though."
"local needs to be replaced with some kind of alternative intelligence tool, but then i'm in favour in general terms.personally i like to see the local member list removed, and instead give everyone a scanner window showing ships in system detected.every n seconds each player gets an x% chance of detecting any active hull in system. once detected, the hull appears as 'unknown' on the scanner list.every n seconds, you also have a y% chance to identify the hull size frigate/crusier/bs/cap and a z% chance to identify the pilot name.x, y, and z are affected by your sensor strength and the other ship's sig size. any pilot can hail the system at any time, doing so reveals your name and ship size to everyone in system.any ship coming onto the same grid as you or the same grid as a scan probe you own would also immeadiately reveal ship size and pilot name.with a tool like this in its place, i'd support removal of local member lists."
"agree to the need to remove local channel the way it works. make ppl there seen only if they chat.v."
"****ing crazy but it might actually work. i like it."
"an interesting idea, it would see more use of ships that are rarely used now and increase the variety of strategies that would need to be developed to use and counter these new 'faction oriented' fleets. players with cross training in multiple factions would still be more versatile and able to better participate in different types of fleets. though, what happens if you have one of each factions fleets working together? each fleet effectively a wing of a larger fleet, commanded by one fc over an a channel specifically set up for that fleet. everything becomes unbalanced once again.i support further dicussion of this very interesting idea."
"why the hell not. if we can have musical instruments in eve don't see why we can't see bonuses for single race fleets. support"
"hell, this isn't nearly as insane as the speed/agility nerf in its current form on sisi.sure, go for it. i'll support it.of course, i am one to bring back racial bonuses anyway. waaaaaay back when, when my characters were still barely flying tier 1 battleships at best, each character got some form of bonus to that character's races' ships and/or weapon systems. this got dropped in early 2005. i never really understood why. but, that is kinda along the lines you are talking about. kinda.but yeah, support. heck, its way better than what ccp has come up with; and its better than the csm who voted to do/say nothing about the speed nerf at this time."
"i could perhaps see this being implemented, but you'd need to be really careful how you did it. my first inclination is to add racial warfare links, or racial flagships, or something of the sort. all of these bonuses would be pro-rated to how much of the fleet is of the appropriate race - so the amarrian ships in a 50% amarr fleet will get half the bonuses that the amarrian ships in a 100% amarr fleet do. the problem i see is that you'd just force people to start 4 fleets and coordinate on ventrilo, instead of forming 1 fleet, but they'll still all be in the same spot. i'm not at all convinced there's a way around that. as such, i don't think i can support this proposal, interesting though it may be."
"agreed, you would have to do it via a command module meaning a fleet with four races would need four command ships for the full bonus. perhaps this could be used as a way of making the titan a more balanced ship?proviso's aside i am for this idea simply because visually, storyline wise and logistically it all makes sense.there is a risk however.without great balancing one of the races may be far better than the other's and this could lead to eve becoming very centered around a race."
"the idea of racial bonuses benefiting racial ships i like. i think it would be cool if this worked for command ships that specialize in their race's \"navy doctrine\".amarr - armored - skirmishminmatar - skirmish - seigecaldari - seige - informationgallente - information - armoredpossible mechanic, op agree?1 nerf general effectiveness of warfare links status quo not much but a little, maybe -10-20% to encourage specialization. just a little bit don't freak out2 all ships get +50% to links when flying a ship that gets warfare link bonuses that are in accordance with navy doctrine.2 command ships and capitals get +100% to the effectiveness of their racial-specific links maybe bc as well according to navy doctrinescenarios:mixed fleet - 100% of the bonusracial ships - 150% of the bonusracial fc - 200% of the bonusracial fleet - 300% of the bonusimportant - leave the regular skills untouched. modules should be effected by racial engineering superiority, but bonuses based upon ig fleet commander leadership dexterity should not be."
"see my post and check if it fixes that problem. you would have to have 4 pilots that all have the leadership skills to fit the warfare links and whatnot. maybe make the fc bonus only on command ships and supercaps to force the players to have an awesome leader. or maybe actually introduce the skill <race> navy doctrine that enables these bonuses on certain ships instead of making it a ship role bonus. example:caldari navy doctrine: +20% effectivness of siege and information warfare links fitted on caldari commandships, motherships, and titans.besides, this would still work in a fleet with racial wings, and why shouldn't it? it still needs very high leadership roles and only benefits the appropriate ships.edit: can the op rename this thread to something more relevant and on topic?"
"good stuff i'll look forward to it."
"i made a proposal for this a while ago.the basics are simple. every activity in a system or constellation i would move to constellation based sovereignty instead of system based to spread fights out more gives you points. per type of activity there is a max number of points per day. lets go with the following activities:pos, mining, moonmining, ratting, pvp. for each of these 5 activities you set a max amount of points that can be gained per day. say 10 points per actvity. so 50 points in total.then you have to determine the amount of points a specific part of that gains. say a large pos gains you 2 points a day, a medium pos 1 point. a small pos 0.5 points. mining x amount of ore: 1 point, collecting x amount of bounty: also 1 point. destroying ships also say 0.1 per battleship, 0.5 per carrier/dread etc etc.then of course, other alliances doing these kinds of things to you means losing points. if they blow up your carrier, you lose 0.5 points that day. if they setup a large pos, you lose 2 points of sovereignty a day.now what you finally need is a natural attrition rate. say 1% per day. that means that if an alliance collects 50 points of sov a day, they lose 1% of their total. so a new alliance occupies a system/constellation. day 1 they gain 50 points. day two, they lose 0.5 points due to natural attrition, and gain 50 more points. total 99.5 points. day 3, they lose 0.95 points and gain another 50. etc etc. over the longterm that means that an alliance using these figures as an example can build up 5000 sovereignty 'points' because at that point natural attrition of 1% equals the max buildup of 50 points 10 per activity per day.this proposal would seriously shrink the size of alliance space, and also restrict the use of jumpportals to areas actually used by said alliance, balancing them a bit in my opinion. it would also allow for small gangs to start affecting sovereignty in the long run if they keep harassing an area.finally, it makes it much less attractive for an alliance to go to war at the other end of the galaxy with everything they have. because that would immediately start to eat away at their sovereignty if they stopped mining and ratting enough to keep up the 10 points per day max for those activities. might help a tad to reduce the size of blobs."
"this was my previous post on the issue otellus is me, a bit more elaborated."
"key point:whatever solution you think is best, you need a system to force the defenders to.... well, defend.just now its too easy to pos spam since a single dyso reaction moon brings in enough isk to put up a new pos almost every day. people are defending by having hardner pos. in the past before cynojammers, people attacked by using hardner pos's.so most imporant thing - find a way to force defenders to defend insted of useing npc structures to delay attackers"
"me? *coughcough points at hamsters*the barrier of entry into 0.0 is not the problem. it is the 0.0 warfare itself. it is slow, it is static, everyone is bored if it comes to pos-warfare. i didn't like most of the op's proposals, because it slows down eve-combat even more. we don't need more forced on mechanics to capture space, we need tools in our sandbox to spice up 0.0 warfare again, stuff which adds more tactical depths than lag/no-lag."
"do you have an example? \"stuff\" is a bit hard to quantify."
"windjammer if you can't be respectful to people that disagree with you, don't expect any in return."
"that depends. how many noob ships can fit on grid, and still leave room for a cyno and a titan?from a corpless alt by the name of letsdothis? i don't think he did before."
"as you well know there are no firm numbers to this situation. it is dependent upon more than the relative age of the veteran and new player. different players train skills differently, ships are set up differently, racial ships have different upsides and downsides, etc. however, all things being equal, i believe that the current situation is satisfactory.as things are now set up, eve rewards those who have put years into character developement while at the same time providing a future for those willing put in the same dedication. only when two sides have approximately the same skill level and tactical expertise should the number of pilots be the deciding factor in a conflict.thank you. this gave me a smile. it never ceases to amaze me that the single greatest concentration of outrageous propaganda in eve, goonswarm, still has the unmitigated temerity to accuse others of what they, themselves, do in such volume. best defense is an offense, eh?i suppose in the strictest technical sense what i say about goonswarm could be construed as propaganda. propaganda is the dispensing of ideas to an audience or community. as such, propaganda may be true or it may be false. the ideas i forward are not based upon false assumptions. they are based upon observations and i report them accurately. worse, for goonswarm, these observations can easily be duplicated and verified by anyone who cares to look at them. i often post the means by which this can be done, but anyone can figure it out for themselves if they wish. this can be done even more easily by a member of goonswarm, but then corporate pride and comraderie get in the way of that process so perhaps it isn't surprising when a goonswarmer responds as they do.windjammer"
"i give respect where respect is due and i don't expect someone to be respectful to me simply because i treat them respectfully. i expect to have to earn any respectful treatment i receive. which is not to say i receive what i earn......but who does?you didn't just disagree with myself and others in this thread, letsdothis. you made accusations and allegations which weren't really designed to gain you respectful treatment.windjammer"
"based on what? you're posting with a character that is less than a year old, and which has never left the noobcorp. i strongly doubt the windjammer character has ever flown in or next to a capital ship, much less fought one. why should anyone take your opinion on balancing capships into account? incidently, bane should be largely disqualified from making any suggestions about capships on these grounds as well, and many of us have told him as much privately alreadyif you have actual experiences with capship fights than by all means, post with your main, but until then you're nothing but an anti-goon troll with no constuctive input to provide."
"without anything concrete i think you should abstain from doing anything with this at all."
"the windjammer character was created for the sole purpose of posting in these forums. it has never trained a skill or flown anything other than a shuttle or been in more than three stations. this was done to protect my anonymity and that of those i associate with. my posts are my own and do not represent the desires of any corporation in eve. were i to show my affiliations, i would be restricted in what i could say in that anyone who posts showing their corp is giving a representation of that corp regardless of any disclaimers they may issue.all this is unlikely to change and certainly not because you, or anyone else regardless of their corp affiliation, attempt to bait me. in your case, you simply don't have the skill set to do so effectively. don't feel bad. very few people in this world do.ironically bane is one of the few in goonswarm whom i respect. he's by far your best choice in representation on any issue, though sometimes i get the feeling he reads a thesaurus on a regular basis to come up with some of the words he uses. he has an excellent vocabulary, is obviously intelligent and is not easily reduced to vulgarity, insults and name calling. i often wonder how he was mislead into being a part of goonswarm. seriously, instead of critcizing bane, you should get down on your knees in gratitude he bothers to represent you. i know he has a lot better things to do.again, i refer you to the above regarding the windjammer character. providing you with details of my capital ship experience would lead to discovery of my identity and serve no purpose. if you can't read what i post and see the experience, it hardly matters if you know what the specific experience is.i note the elanmorin characters are only two years old. one year isn't enough to post, but two years makes you an expert? your assessment of my reasons for posting is self serving and transparent in intent. suffice it to say, i'm not trolling.windjammer"
"why would i beleive someone who can't even figure out how to tank a hulk against a mindless suicide attack has the expereience you claim?"
"windjammer if you can't be respectful to people that disagree with you, don't expect any in return."
"1 i have not listed my experience in capital ships for the reasons i gave in post 116 of this thread. take another look at the second paragraph from the bottom. the statement also assumes an adequate level of competency on the part of the suicide ganker.2 i don't really care if you believe anything i say. it's just not that important to me.3 apparently you do care what i say....enough to remember something from another thread. just as apparently you've misquoted me from that thread. in point of fact what i said in that thread was there was no practical way for a solo miner to tank a hulk in high sec 0.7 and below against a suicide ganker in such a way that the hulk would survive. that's paraphrasing what i said to incorporate the context of the discussion rather than an exact quote of what i said.the key word there was \"practical\". if you'd care to prove me wrong with the vast knowledge you've accumulated in your two years of play, do so. i stand ready to acknowledge your achievement.....assuming you meet the criteria inherent in the term practical.windjammer"
"an exact duplicate of your post 110 in this thread. i don't think i've ever reduced anyone to this particular level of incoherency before.windjammer"
"you've already declined my offer to do so, and are clearly still incapable of figuring it out on your own.which brings me back to, why should anyone put any stock in your \"experience\" when you seem more interested in trolling goons than in addressing game balance issues?"
"no really."
"this might seem like a silly idea, but i figured i might as well share it and see if anyone else thinks it could work.as i was reading the igs and seeing people's in character replies to the fictional news story about the two teens in rens who blinded themselves. i noticed that several people have offered to make donations of isk.now realistically, those donations will never be collected on. but it got me thinking back to another fictional event, the disaster that laid the framework for the second caldari and gallente war when that nyx crashed into the ishukone headquaters. when that took place a lot of people in character talked about contributing isk also.so why can't their be an actual way to donate isk? for that matter why not a way to donate isk that could go toward charity in the real world? so here is the basic plan i thought of, 1. players contract isk contributions to a ccp controlled npc. it would have to be done by ccp. just way to much temptation here to do a memorable scam in eve history. 2. at the end of every month, if the contribution is enough, one or more gtc's are bought through the normal exchange means with this isk, but instead of being given to or used by a player the u.s. dollar value of the gtc is donated to an actual charity on ccp and the eve player bases' behalf? i don't ever think it will be a whole lot, but it be something, and worth while in my view."
"use in-game role-playing events to eventually benefit out of game causes. no programming required. either way people will feel good about participating. eve could do this, for sure also huge press coverage, ccp.easy 9-0 in the csm that can take less than 5 minutes with absolutely no discussion."
"ah, what the hell. can't hurt mentioning, can it?"
"you can already smartbomb them, just like scan probes."
"could we please make it so that contract auction's end times are shown and incorporate a 15 minute sniper tool. this benefits the seller and the buyer and would help me tremendously.i find it irritating to come across a commodity i want an be told \"less than a day\" which could be anywhere from an hour and 1 minute to 23 hours and 59 minutes. not very helpful.also it would be nice to make a maximum bid and that would allow you to bid the minimum needed to beat the other guy up to the maximum you set. sort of an ebay system.thanks!"
"shamelessly supporting this with my alt lol."
"mining isn't a real profession anymore. 1. you almost need 2 characters to mine haul and mine / mining bonusthe exumers can't hold not much so it needs to eject the ore into larger cans which need to be picked up. if you don't have a second account the can will be flipped and if it isn't the miner can't pick it up with a normal industrial because the rats will kill it need to skill for transporters.2. exumers have a hard time to tank belts.the hulk hasn't got a very large shield buffer so it depends on its small sig radius about cruiser size. while this works against bs rats, it does a very poor job on frigs, cruiser and battlecruiser spawns.3. other sources bring too much minerals on the market.ratting brings too much minerals on the market. this is most apparent in the drone regions.4. risk&reward is out of balance.ratters have a much lower risk of being destroyed by rats or enemies then miners. exumers are very slow and can't warp off fast and have no other defense options."
"1. i agree with the mining bonus, but no pve/pvper gets bonuses solo. however there are no rigs for miners at this time. this means that you can put on 2 cargohold optimization rigs. with 2 rigs only you can haul just over 10k. with 2 rigs and a t2 expander you get about 13k. i've never run 2 rigs and 2 t2 expanders however i imiagine you'd get about 15k. this means that with 3 minute cycles a basic miner will get 3-4 cycles of their lasers in. this is 9-12 minutes. you don't need a hauler. you don't have a jet can so can't get can flipped.2. you have a drone bay quit tanking small ships and pop them. a miner with t2 mediums/lights will pop any frigate/destroyer spawn before it does much damage. they can pop cruisers with a bit of work. they can also pop bc with some work. you just have to train to defend yourself.3. the drone regions don't drop loot, they drop alloys. alloys refine into minerals by design. drone npcs don't have bounties. these alloys are the bounties+ loot drops. pick a better argument for this point or realize that you are incorrect.4. you have drones you have a defence option. you have turret slots, you have a defense option. if you want better \"options\" go mine in a battleship. the yield can be close to a regular barge and is \"safer\" for you.i'm a pure industrialist so yes i do know what i'm talking about. i mine high sec, low sec, null sec learn your trade better. i'd support your initial statement sadly on the basis of there are no rigs for miners or pirate implants. however compared to other pve options/pvp those are the only two lacking items for miners."
"well, being a miner for a year now in a 0.0 corp i do know what i talk about.1. well, the mining bonus is a plus no real big issue, but the hauling is. a hulk fitted with 2 cargorigs has one medium slot less because it needs a cap recharger for the shield booster. if you would use both lows for cargo expanders you got 10k. this may look a nice ammount, but it isn't. often miners need to go out to other systems where there isn't a station, flying a hulk up and down is very slow and not really worth it. a ratter has the option to drop a secure cargo can somewhere in the system where it can dump its loot. a miner has not this option secure cargo container is a bit small for ore.2. i need t2 medium drones to pop the rats that leaves no space for mining drones. also, it is very common that 6x bc's spawn. if a hulk does not warp out quick, it's dead. mind you, i got max shield skills and have fitted a phiti-b small shield booster and a domi shield amp. problem in drone region is that the rats do more then 2 dmg types which will force a hulk to fit 2x invul's which aren't enough to tank those spawns.3. while alloys as drops sound good, it isn't. if they are refined they give out even the rarest minerals where a normal miner has to go out in special belts and has to skill in order to mine even those ores. thats a bad design! no ratter can't be allowed to bring back more minerals then a miner can mine, that kills the mining profession.4. often a miner will leave one rat alive so it is assured he won't get a spawn it can't handle. if an enemy warps in, the hulk can't never tank the rat and the enemy. the slow speed and the short targetingrange makes things even worse. an enemy can easily kill you from 40k distance. oh and about the turret slots, you can't fit guns and missile launchers. no need to get personal. every miner thats within a real 0.0 corp knows what i am talking about."
"is your argument that mining isn't a profession anymore...?...or that solo-mining in 0.0 isn't a viable profession?why aren't \"if you want to solo-mine, do it in high/low sec\" or \"fleet up with corp-mates to mine in 0.0\" good responses to your post? i've never actually tried 0.0 mining before, but i never really assumed it was a solo task to begin with. had it been a viable profession for you before?"
"well.. good question. i compare the mining profession to the other major income for players: ratting questing for high-sec. what do ratters get while ratting:drones:* alloys which refine in all types of ore* salvaged parts which can be used for the production of rigsnon drones:* bounty* faction gain* modules which can be sold or refined for minerals* salvaged parts which can be used for the production of rigsratters get 'rare' spawns sometimes which give out better loot or a nice ammount of minerals in case of a transport spawn.i don't have very much info on the rewards for questing because i always was in 0.0 where questing is non existant.what do miners get? ore which can be refined for minerals. true, they can be selective in the ore they want to mine but the ore isn't an endless supply and only spawns once every week.but to answer your question direct... miners should not be forced into fleets to make some money. in the end, every profession should have about the same risk/time/isk ratio and right now it isn't."
"ofc there is a rig for miners; drone ones wich bring in more mining amount.mining is not meant to be solo operation so as such cant be compared to rating."
"you *think* is should not be a solo operation."
"says who? show me and i'll shutup.also, level 4's weren't supposed to be solo operations either. that was said."
"miners have to mine, jet can and then get a hauler to move their ore right? well as a mission runner i have to get the mission which also exist in 0.0, go to the area for the mission, spend the time to finish the mission, book mark the areas, go turn in the mission, come back with a salvage boat i'm not wasting spots on my bs for salvagers, tractor beams and salvaging rigs, salvage all the wrecks and then go back for another mission. pardon me if i think it is completely fair that a miner would have to haul his own minerals back to station if he wants to solo. if i as a mission runner want to salvage while doing the missions i either invite a friend to tag along and salvage while we go also reaping the reward of the leadership bonuses or i gimp my setup the way you would have to in the same way, minus mining drones and using cargo rigs.this is fair and balanced as far as i can tell. pvpers don't get a solo iwin button so either should miners / pveers or anyone in an mmo.this is just my 2 isk.fj"
"well, first of all, you got an option if you want to fit the salvager or not. furthermore the loot that drops during ratting/questing is small enough to fit in one or 2 secure containers which can be anchored within the system thats saves the trouble to fly to the station. last thing is, ever flew in a hulk? those are very slow boats which take ages to warp, a ratting boat is much faster and can back and forth much faster then a miningship.and last thing.. pvp isn't a profession, its where we spend our money on which we make with rat/mine/trade"
"actually i do also fly a hulk. and my bs with 3x trimark and 2x 1600mm plates aligns just about as slow if not as slow. and i do have the option to fit a salvager. you have the option to fit combat drones. i can keep some of the loot but i still have to make trips back for all of the loot. along with bringing in another ship for salvage since i won't waste my high slots to fit a salvager.which is precisely what i was telling you. you also have the options just like i do. you just want to make it faster and easier for you to not have to use these options. i too would like these but then it makes game play too no brainer. which if i wanted i would cancel my account and start playing wow. no thank you.fj"
"i don't think the professions are intended to be compared directly like that. i'm not suggesting that mining doesn't need a buff of some sort likely through reducing dropped modules in missions, but just because they're different doesn't mean they have to be equalized. mmo sexiness arises out of the differences.specifically, doesn't mining scale with fleets better than mission running or ratting? my understanding of ratting admittedly, limited is that most of the challenge is in finding the rats and avoiding the gank. numbers give you more security from the gank, but don't particularly make finding rats easier. as such, you're splitting a reasonably fixed reward between increased numbers.with missioning, the reward is even more rigidly fixed. true, a second \"salvaging/hauling alt\" contributes significantly to your mission running speed, but beyond that you quickly run into a mission running overhead picking up the mission, turning it in, getting to and from the mission, salvaging, hauling, slow-boating to gates, etc. ultimately, it doesn't scale well in larger groups. level 5 missions may be an exception to this, i don't knowwith mining, you have to know where the asteroids are to mine, but in most cases, adding more players significantly increasing the amount mined. it's less than a linear increase, to be certain, but five people mining/hauling/guarding in a mining op sees much more benefit from the larger gang than 5 people missioning or ratting, i would think.is this not true?"
"as a mostly missionrunner, who has helped on mining ops before, yes it is true.i take a single battleship into a lvl 4, and lets say i finish it in 30 minutes. now i'll take a friend of similar skill levels in, and we get it down to 20 minutes. a third friend, might get it down to 15 minutes, depending upon the mission. any more than that however, and its really just splitting the reward too many ways to be worthwhile.as for ratting in the drone regions... have you ever ratted in the drone regions? i have. its painful. it sucks. you get through one belt spawn, and then you have to go back to station to drop off loot, and then you have to sell it to make money. this is compared to being able to go out, kill rats for a few hours, and have the money automatically in your wallet. you can do it in smaller ships, and you don't have to worry about having a hauler behind you just to grab the loot. when ratting though, there is also the problem, as mentioned, of finding rats. a single person in a system with say 8 belts, can get a fairly decent amount ratting. add a second person in though, and suddenly there is now only four belts per person. 4 belts does not great income make.now for mining. a single person mining in a hulk has to make some sacrifices to be able to tank the rats, and to be able to gtfo if a player comes in to kill them. they'll have to have a hauler to move the ore, or constantly be warping back and forth with their hulk. now, lets make that a two people. they still have the problem, but only one person has to go move the ore every once in a while - a significant improvement as the other person can continue mining. now lets make that 5 people. 4 hulks and a hauler. suddenly, all your problems have gone away, except the random pvper who anyone would have to worry about anyways. and your monetary income is increased dramatically as well. as you keep adding more people to the mining fleet, you start getting more and more money per player.no other profession scales up as well as mining does. yes, mining solo sucks. but because of the ease at which it scales up, i believe that its perfectly balanced with the other professions.-arazel"
"guys.. i aint talking about more isk, read my posts again. oh, and yes.. i live in drone regions well my main does  so i know about ratting there.just curious, how many ships are out there to rat with? compare that with mining ships.how many setups do you know you can use to rat with? compare that with mining ships.see where i am getting at? it isn't about the isk.. it's about some attention from the devs! all the loot that drops during ratting destroys mining profession, not because you get more isk but because mining isn't needed anymore! ratting should be about bounties, rep gains/losses, saving the universe! not about getting stuff you can refine for ore.. that's just plain stupid."
"you can't really use this argument. irl, how many ways can you mine coal. you use the shovel, or a bigger shovel, or maybe a shovel on a tractor. and then you need a way to move it - a shovel can't really carry much.this should be addressed by changing ratting mechanics and not mining mechanics. the scaling argument remains the strongest, because a mining buff would make mining fleet ridiculous."
"i completely agree... with the other folks.mining isn't meant to be entertaining, and it isn't meant to be exciting. it's meant to bring in resources to fuel the economy.1 take a look at real life mining. either surface or underground. equipment works day and night, chewing through dirt and rock to find whatever. then that gets hauled by other people to be processed. it was only in the beginnings of mining, when a single guy has a mine shaft and a cart, that he chipped away ingots and then rolled them out himself.2 now take a look at some other video games... like starcraft for instance. you build a group of the smallest and most lowly workers, and point them at a gas processing plant or a group of crystals. they walk out, chip at the rocks, and walk back. looks terribly exciting, right? now realize that that's you... chipping at rocks and bringing them back.i too fly a hulk... and i solo all the time. difference being, i have expanders and optimizers fitted. i can fit 6x gsc inside, giving me over 24k m3 worth of ore with each trip. so don't tell me that it can't be done in that ship. maybe you can't make it happen, but that's on you.mining isn't a glorious job, and no amount of whining and b!tching to ccp will ever make it more than a chore. a single rung on the ladder. a link in the chain."
"well.. mining isn't fueling the economy.. thats been replaced by other means.i do have 2 cargo rigs fitted in my hulk.. and 2 ccc's in my other hulk.. you know why? because you need the 2x ccc in order to have enough cap to tank a belt.. and don't bring me the \"a mining vessel should not be able to tank a belt\" because you should read the description on the hulk. but maybe you should come to our space for a while and try to tank the spawns there with that setup.and about the 6 gsc.. well.. that aint possible because that would mean every cycle would dump some ore into space because it will not fit in the room thats left in your hold."
"what other means are you referring to? because i'm pretty sure that building anything requires minerals first off. and even recycling every bit of loot you find won't allow you to fuel a production career as well as mining would.you're right... it's impossible. and i'm just doing the impossible every time i go out.you jettison a can or two right on top of yourself, and let the ore fall into the hold. then you shunt it into a can to free up the space again. if someone threatening should show up, you cut off the lasers, and scoop the cans back inside. taa daa... 6x gsc, inside the ship. 24k m3 of ore, every trip."
"this idea is pathetic."
"if there is spare time to develop this then why not?"
"what on earth has this got to do with \"a dark and ruthless empty space universe simulator\"?of all the horrible ideas..."
"only if you can punch someone in the face for playing scatman or some other vile creation."
"i'm sorry, you rather play the rusty trombone than look into issues which should have higher priority?vote of no confidence, impeachment, wtf, gtfo, all of you."
"leave it to a goon to make a mockery of the csm."
"w00t"
"apparently you don't \"get\" 8-0."
"if it wasn't because i was on an airplane at the time of the meeting, it would have been an 8-1."
"it'd be cool if you can play chess or a battleship type game with other players while in stations waiting for ops. the music thing seems a bit gay but sometimes gay is good right?"
"pretty much sums up my sentiment. this is an attempt by a goons to pretty much show how ineffectual csm is, since they posted the idea to ccp, and if ccp, should the developers be all high on acid and x, decide to implement it, would be a great waste of resources."
"this is an elaborate fakepost by a goon, no other explanation for it otherwise the op would already be kicked out of gf.edit: as previous posters have implied, this reeks of goonery and an attempt to implement a feature awkwardly at odds with the current eve theme just for lulz."
"what i don't get is all but the other goons not choosing to abstain. it's not a bad idea to have fluff in the game, it's just not anywhere near the top of issues you should be voting on and putting forth to ccp.so whereas not a completely moronic idea it had no place on the table and the other non-hive minds on the csm should've opted to abstain or vote it down to demonstrate its low level priority.you've put forth suggested solutions and reports on how many of the repeatedly addressed issues yet?"
"it will not take much time from ccp. it took all of 5 minutes i'm assuming from the csm. and they all liked it, as well as a lot of posters here. why is this a failure? i can't wait to hold my benefit concert for the slaves... and everyone's gonna be doing blue pill and x-instinct. won't eve look great on your lsd screen?"
"i'd answer your question but it makes absolutely no sense. being that you're asserting yourself some form of authority on the subject i hate to burst your bubble but the prioritization of items comes after all of the issues have made it onto the agenda. an issue being voted into the dialog or not has no bearing on its prioritization.i'm sure you know that though being expert on what the csm does/doesn't or should/shouldn't be doing."
"anybody who doesn't see the genius of this idea clearly lacks the imagination to realize it's potential. these same people probably would have poo-pooed steamboats, trains, and telephones were they alive centuries ago."
"s<U+FFFD>, por favor!"
"surprise surprise, it made it on the agenda!yet, they shelved discussion on the scrambler/web changes to 'some point in the future when it's too late to do squat' after 25 minutes of mostly meaningless discussion. i puked a little in my mouth when i read the minutes."
"i puked a little in my mouth when i read this post. please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"no, i think the idea is more like the 'privacy shield for urinating in your car' like the japanese have. nice way to waste valuable csm time with utterly trivial exercises in 'lets show how pathetic the system safequards are when i can introduce and get passed ideas that should never have made it past first readiing'. obviously the csm 'issue' system needs additional ways to block other monumentally idiotic ideas in the future.thanks for palpably pointing that out.edit: any more cute little graphics you'd like to add so you don't need to have an argument?"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"err, what is it? i can't steal it if i don't know how to use it:"
"we're capsuleers, not street musicians."
"i'll explain my reason. musical instruments in ambulation won't break the game for anybody and some people might enjoy it. + hoped that by supporting one of their ideas it might make them more responsive to some of the 0.0 sovereignty suggestions that would improve the game for people currently looking at the mind-deadening horror of lagfest pos dogpiles and perhaps get us a chance to promote a visionary idea of the kind that ccp did ask for to the next formal meeting. part of committee work is horsetrading and barter - but on this occassion the compromise was all one-sided - still you have to try right?"
"so what you're saying is that in true democratic fashion you choose to ignore all the relevant issues and pass the fluff to apeace the masses?"
"but how would you prioritize this idea on a low to high scale?"
"i guess that depends on how you vote on it."
"not really, a vote is an either or, not a sliding scale."
"man what is wrong with you guys why do you all hate music"
"can the csm please concentrate on more important issues like the nano nerf etc first please?"
"it depends on if they vote high or low. it depends on how they prioritize it. so far all that's decided is if it's on the list, not where on the list."
"exactly.what is the point of bringing up and issue if you already know it's a low-priority issue? i personally think that is the case here."
"because we don't already know this, if i'm not mistaken. this gets a lot more positive support than other issues so it may yet be determined by the csm that this is important to the player base, which is why there will be a vote.there are 9 csm delegates. there are thousands of players. you are one opinion. don't damage your pretty decent imo reputation by trying to block this pretty decent imo idea."
"because it's cool and there's no way to tell if ccp would implement something like this on their own, or if they'd notice it without the csm."
"a splendid idea in principle, diminishing returns combined with a de facto hardcap or rather saturation which is more precise i guess? is a very good option to prevent \"ludicrous speeds\" as opposed to nerfing an entire form of pvp combat into extinction.however imho the actual formula would need some tweaking, the sacri is going too fast in comparison to the vaga and same would be true for the ishtar i suppose? the problem is if you have ships with de facto trackingless weapons drones and missiles going too fast they can deliver their full dps while being unhittable themselves, which is a central part of the whole nano problematic. the vagabond on the other hand as a turret ship does not have this luxury, imho it should go considerably faster then any other hac with nanos, how you actually manage that, be it by tweaking the formula or tweaking the vagas stats doesnt matter really though.especially"
"yea the formula has quite a lot of scope for change, but i dont think there is too much of a problem, as atm sacs go 4kms on average, which will be nerfed to 3.5kms, and vagas go just over 6kms, which will be nerfed to 5kms, so the speed difference between the two only decreases by 500ms.but like i said before, this formula is just a rough sketch atm :"
"i support, there is no need to nerf mwd class and speed spree in general"
"very good post and idea red..for the proplem for other hac`s, ceptors they are going to fast for you, maybe ccp can add extra fromula for the mwd speed .. like the warp speed.so they can leave the moduls untoucht and can tweak the ship it self and they are not needet to change the mass of the ship.maybe this is a option too"
"i didnt like nano for sure, but after looking at the test server i think ccp hit it to hard, i feel that nano ships as a game play should be an option regarding my personal feelings, i think nano ships need to reasonably killable, i do not agree with the current nano nerf however its too broad, and ccp will need to change many models and ships that will be effected. and god knows when we will see balance. this idea right here is viable, let intys do there job."
"sorryyour vaga is as fast as a interceptor. also, why would someone use a ab?ccp's idea makes ab's viable. your idea does not. ccp's idea makes nanoships commiting to a fight viable. your idea does not."
"i support this in principal, however, i think that this could do with a littlbe bit of tweaking. for example, rather than being:new_speed = old_speed......it should instead simply take this into account when calculating the speed initially, so that ships are still able to be bumped beyond normal speeds :edited for support."
"yea i wanted to do that initially, but i have no idea what equations ccp uses atm, so i had to make do with this. the equation itself can change, its the idea that slower ships dont get nerfed too hard and stupid speed ships get nerfed badly thats important."
"ccps idea kill nanoships fullstop, so there will be no commiting to a fight. also, ccps idea actually nerfs afterburners from a 150% boost to only 100%, and they are only useful in rare circumstances.also, i dont see how the vaga is as fast as an interceptor. even with full faction and snakes you cannot push it much past the 6k area, which a ceptor can beat easily. most the pvp vagas you will see will be 5kms or lower."
"ab stats can and probably will be tweaked further. ccps idea removes mwd as mandatory item when fitting a ship, yours does not. afs are also still useless and close range combat = not moving at all due to 90% webs."
"point 1: damn straight.point 2: he's talking about how fast he thinks interceptors should go. well, either that, or the 7 km/s vagabonds against the slower interceptors. something that only holds up when you take implants out of the equation.personally though, i'd tweak the factors in that equation heavily. but even then it doesn't quite hold to my idea, because of the mass 'jump' between ship classes. in short though, i want to say that i think that any ship but a 'ceptor clocking >2,5 km/s is broken, and that we should implement some other sort of defense alternatives, especially against missiles, that work together with speed. instead of trying to find a 'middle ground' when it comes to speeds, which we won't at this point, because it has to be set too high, and factor in mwds which have been both hit with the nerf bat, cause implausible ship characteristics, and still give a 500% speed bonus, placing pvp combat on two different levels of speed: 'slow boating' or 'holy****wtfbbq!!!1!one!!'."
"whats better, having assault ships slightly better at shooting big targets, or completely removing a very large chunk of pvp and rendering a lot of ships useless"
"interesting idea, but something still needs to be done about frigates in general then--they should be considerably faster than hacs."
"i guess you mean interceptors, and i dont see a problem, all hacs except the vaga go 4kms normally, and a standard t2 fitted ares can do 8kms, so whats the problem?"
"you obviously have no clue what your talking about shuuush as my ceptor goes much faster than my vaga and ab's will still suck and will not be viable at all.....ps this is great idea red thunder and you obviously did your homework great job"
"well frigs arent ment to be fast at anyhting but tackling really i mean tbh how long did you stay in a frig?? hac take alot of training not only that but minm specifically are ment to be faster than the rest. i think that this idea the red thunder has come up with is a great idea and well thought out not a huge nerf but enough to reign in the stupid ones then again if your moving at 35m/s you arent stopping anytime soon beside theres nuthin better than watching them bounce off the gate when your in a rapier : although after this nerf they are gonna be crap too.... this nerf just isnt very well thought out. it will effect the industial side as well as the pvp side. as they may as well be nerfing minm invention too......"
"outstanding idea ccp take note."
"i like the above suggestion, but in effect ccp have all ready done the above with their rebalancing of the speed curves for the relative ship classes, basied upon the game mechanic equations. the balancing of astrautic rigs incomparison to their parent modules is again another good soultion to the issue, and comforms to the balancing of the speed curves. lowering web effectiveness supports these changes aswell, by not eliminating speed altogether. its the rest of the nerph that is the major issue.1scrams completed turning off mwd's effectively removes mwd's from any close combat engagement fits. there is no other module in the game that has a 100% neutralizing effect on another. for example ecm's used to have that effect, now they are chance baised. even as a middle ground making the suggested effect of a scram chanced baised would be more preferable to completely invalidating a module.2missiles - i don't know how many times i see people mention missiles and defender missiles. at the current sisi speed those ships designed to speed tank inty's, vagabond, frigs can avoid or tank minimal damage from any of the other weapon types. some are more effective with the suggested changes and thats not necessarily a bad thing. medium t2 drones should be able to catch most crusiers t1/t2, thats why the drones fall into the same base tactics as the races. valkeries are faster but have less armor/shields, infiltrators have more armor and are generally slower than other drones etc. turrets can be out run at sub 1k speeds, with the aid of tracking disruptors and the rebalanced webs frigs can now survive to a degree in web range can perform their jobs properly. these are changes that will work, however one weapon type remains un changed or negitively effected by the suggested nerph. thats missiles.currently there is only one effective counter measure against missiles. speed. defender missiles are broken and don't perform their role well. there have been plenty of suggested solutions to this, from chance baised missile specific ecm systems to auto firing defender missiles, or auto turret missile defense. not one suggested solution or alternative soultion to the missile problem has been included in this nerph. effectively missiles will now hit everything without any counter being availiable. the cerberus is the extreme example of this, as it currently stand a cerb can fire of light and heavy missiles at an approximate speed of 8kms with average skills with good skills 10kms. add to the other bonuses this ship provides and no ship designed for speed is going to be able to touch the cerb. as i said thats the extreme end of the spectrum.3web drones - gives that nano'ing is so popular i would have thought the first good balancing option apart from the above speed curve adjustment would be to include medium and light web drones. if kept in balance with the other ewar drone specs these wouldn't be overpowered or excessive. new web drone rigs have come out boosting web drone effectiveness, making them a more viable option against nano boats. combine that with the optimal range module and your web drones will have an effective range, at maximum, of 15km. a viable soultion.wall of text over. nice one red o/"
"this is a rediculously goooreaaaattt idea.they need to undo every single change from this nerf and start this nerf from scratch with this concept."
"yep, technologically dx and mssql seems like a joke for a project like eve-online."
"i hope ccp will pay the crossover licence too"
"with ambulation on the horizon and sousa-playing abilities the dull, grey, bland colours of eve have turned into more vivid, lively variants of their older gritty counterparts. i am speaking metaphorically of course. many features seems to have been made as to cater to the vox populi instead of providing at least the semblance of an unforgiving vacuum of space where bodies burn, families are left to ruins, and corporations become outmaneuvered and their work force starving to death.it seems the message of oveur from last years fanfest, proclaiming love have overwhelmed the eve-universe and in spite of \"war\", it's a war with shades of pink and purple, because those within that war are protected from the \"nasty alliances\", pve content is being expanded etc. and so on. now prepare yourselves, because i'm going to contradict myself a little: i accept that this type of content will make it into eve to a certain extent but i implore ccp to also make sure that there are pitfalls for every pink cloud that people catch, without the punji-trap vietcong tm setup just nearby the pink bunny, the morbid consistency will falter. in essence what i want is to keep consequences a vital part of this game, because the more we remove them, the less of a hardcore game we have, which made eve unique from the getgo. there's a reason why there's a 100 world of warcraft out there and only one eve-online, there's enough of \"i get to keep all my loot\"-type pvp, rules against scamming and all that. please do not cater more to that audience.you've removed several ways of scamming people already, and i realize that in some of the cases these were a necessary change. but alongside outlaws being marginalized, \"noob-accessible pvp\" and \"red tape\" lining the \"good\" from the \"bad\" i see an eve which taste has been becoming more bland to the taste. while this issue is not bringing up specifics, i think this is a general theme in eve that; we need to make it less shiny , colourful and pretty and more dark, ominous ... like a cold blade to the neck the moments before it sinks inside and draws blood. it's time to bring the cold into the dark cold space of eve."
"couldn't agree more. in principle, this would be the csm seeking re-assurance from ccp that this is still the most important part of their grand vision."
"how do you suggest ccp improve on this?i fully agree. but what kind of changes would you like to see being made to facilitate this feeling?edit: forgot to support"
"i started this january, 8 months only now so i can't agree without more specifics. explain to me how it isn't dark enough or how it is too shiny. willing to change my mind here with enough argument."
"bumpeh for your viewing pleasure"
"i like your answer to the missile problem. point defense sensors are a great anti-missile tactic that should be implimented."
"bump; i like it."
"mechwarrior 4 had a defense system on some of their mechs called laser anti-missile system or \"l.a.m.s.\" for short. if installed unto the mech, the system would fire at and destroy 1-2 missile volley as soon as they got within 300? meters of the mech. i think this would be a more efficient option compared to the clumsy defender system.the range of this system should be 5km-10km? and it system could stop working when the missiles are fired off within its firing range 5km-10km? that way rockets aren't completely useless. also, this system should be a high slot, as it is effectively a weapons system. it would also act as a damage control in the sense that you can only have one activated at all times and it uses no cap. this also means that the system will only shoot missiles being shot at you, that way a blob of ships is not able to effectively make a missile boat useless.i'm sure this would make some of the recon pilots with highslots to spare very happy if they could destroy one incoming heavy/cruise missile/torpedo out of a volley of 5-6.just thought this idea was more interesting than making current ew modules do magic tricks."
"here is some more more cleverness. i am unsure whether if i can lend this suggestion my full support though, because of the lack of regard to bonuses. check more on this man's thread in the 'ships and modules' section.also, i am still hoping that this thread will somehow attract some csm member's attention."
"fill me in, what kind of bonuses are you talking about?"
"specific ecm bonuses. the existing ones to the existing ships would make certain ships stronger and others weaker against missile assault.for example; it is generally known that if you're a pilgrim or falcon pilot, you will not have very much of a chance read, no chance at all against certain missile-based ships and passive tanks. i propose to add some diversity and possibly turn this around by making these ships, which receive bonuses to ewar, capable of highly reducing the effectiveness of a missile salvo, but at the cost of being able to target ships specifically with said ewar.in short, the missile ships will be able to fire on them, but with the missiles' effectiveness greatly reduced. it's another facet of reducing hit chance by speed, reducing hit and damage by signature, and reducing taken damage by resistance.basically, regular ships, which do not have ewar bonuses might be able to cut a missile salvo's damage by 30%-60%. but this does not become such a horrible weakness because these ships are combat-focused and should thus be able to tank or outrun the rest of the missiles with enough effectiveness. ewar ships though, which have long had no defense against fof missiles and suffered completely at the hands of missile tanks, can, by sacrificing some ability to torture the missile-bearing ship, approach levels of 90%. or, possibly, even come close to the levels where they are able to stop all missiles and act as a screen for the rest of their gang thus giving them a whole new fleet dynamic, but this at a rather severe cost of offensive abilities.of course, all this also has the intended effect of lending some new purpose and buff to tracking disruptors and target painters, which largely seem to be seen as underpowered and without purpose at the moment."
"i like."
"another excellent idea was recently added to the forum, and i feel that it is my responsibility to bring attention to it, so that if that thread or this one drops past page 1 it still has a good chance of being noticed. furthermore, it could very well work together with the changes that i have proposed.you will find it right here."
"ewar is supposed to be specific. tds for turrets, ecm for locking, rsd for targeting, tp for sig radius, if we're gonna have an anti missile system, it should be a new module unto itself, not giving an already existing module an extra role."
"if there's anything that i've tried to get across then it's that you shouldn't be so drastic when it comes to these changes, because that will just lead to people exploiting things, whether they be the ones being exploited now, or the ones that will have the scales tilted in their favor in the future instead.as it is, with the presence of fof, missiles are able to override ecm and countermeasures completely, and deal a substantial amount of damage, while costing the user ship little to nothing in usage and thus enabling them to put up a tremendous active tank. i propose that we deal with this problem directly, instead of doing something silly like introducing cap costs to firing launchers or nerfing specific ships that are actually fine.your argument falls on three points: firstly, we want to balance what might potentially become missile dominance out, and doing that by giving all ships an equal chance to counter missiles is not the way to go, because some clearly don't deserve that level of protection, as they already have enough speed or tank. secondly, it is almost specifically recon and ewar ships that have suffered and been left in the dust by missile ships. and if they have not, they will be by the speed patch. since these two points coincide very neatly, it would be recommendable giving the ewar-capable ships better options for matching missiles, adding to their usefulness but only reasonably, and introducing a whole new level of fleet dynamism to them.thirdly, adding an entire module, and making it require a high slot in addition, and making it so that it would probably require its own bonus, is three levels of redundancy. what you're talking about is precisely like defender missiles, except not taking up a launcher point, and without ammo.and, those points aside, we need an excuse to use target painters at all. we really, really do."
"you're thinking way too much fleet here. solo- or small-gang battles are equally, if not more, important at this point. and when it comes to the ecms we have ea ships and recons, all of which are vulnerable to the damn missiles. fofs knock out drones for a lot of cost or they just go straight for the ship, or they divert between equally important targets. so, i don't know whether if you're being presumptious or self-convenient. probably both. either way, you don't have any right to declare my point null just like that.yeah, this seems unbalanced and doesn't really help with the dynamism. not to mention that the ships which need to escape missiles through other means than just taking the damage have precious few high slots to start with.are you thinking i'd want to completely eliminate the other functions of the ewar? if so you haven't read what i've said, and you're once again being presumptuous and self-convenient.the gist is that you'd have to choose. you can't, and shouldn't be able to, make a ship strong against everything.yeah, and he'll still be able to put out enough to kill off a recon or a eas with ease, unless they can out-fly the missiles. but recons weren't really meant to fly that fast, and eas ships don't have slots to spare...it's funny how you immediately choose a fleet battle as the first example as well, by the way.yeah, well, it's too indirect. it's not as significant a change as you seem to think. the excluding preference for webifiers won't change among minmatar pilots. and, since missiles will be getting a buff, and minmatar ships rather nerfed, expect people to stop buying and train caldari instead."
"it is high time that our csm reps take on an issue that plagues thousands of eve subscribers. we, the members of goonfleet and goonfleet.com, have been subjected to the inane rantings and general uselessness that is igne, ds1, btls, arsed, etc... posting for far to long. we move that these terrible posters have their posting rights removed from goonfleet.com.csm members, this is your chance to actually make a difference in eve and its community. please, help us rid ourselves of this menace."
"oh, i also support what i wrote above."
"supporting this with my alt too."
"you do know that if you post on their boards their general grasp of grammar and spelling might turn best goon trolls into malcontented emo pubbies? you go first young sir i shall be following with daveydweeb from the rear no less."
"maybe if you post this everywhere someone will fall for it eventually :"
":iceburn:"
"heh"
"supportin dis"
"supporting via threats"
"i posted these comments in the \"against\" the speed nerf poll thread, which i am admittedly an active part. but, i felt they were noteworthy enough for their own thread. first though, what am i on about? specifically, my thoughts are a reaction to the csm meeting notes that were kindly posted by jade herei am extremely disappointed in the csm reps who voted to put this off and are potentially going to do nothing about this issue until it's too late.the entire point of the csm was/is to bring the ideas/concerns of the player base to the ccp devs. there are now several thousand votes both for and against telling you to do just that. you then turn around and vote directly to not do your job. all i can say is: wtf.the general consensus of the council was that \"it is too early\" to say/do anything about this. absolute bullocks.fact: the \"against\" vote poll is winning by more than 2 to 1 at the time of this typing, and has been ever since it was posted.does this give the csm any sort of a clue as to the majority feelings of the player base concerned by this issue?some people claim that the vote has been slanted with alts towards the \"against\". but, can't the \"for\" people use alts too? or are they just more honest by nature than the \"against\" people? fact: read any 20 pages, hell, read any 10 pages of the \"against\" poll and the general consensus of the majority vote becomes so obvious that a pre-schooler could sort it out. most people in both the \"for\" and \"against\" poll when considered as a whole agree that a change is needed to speed. but, specifically in the \"against\" poll, many point out that the devs are going way to far and considering too many changes to very basic game play elements.am i totally insane, or is this, or is this not, more than enough information to do your jobs and go to ccp with the idea that they need to at the very least severely reduce the scope of the changes they are considering?bottom line: to those reps who voted for moving forward with this issue: thank you for keeping the faith with your constituents. to those reps who voted directly not to do your jobs: shame on you. and, good luck getting my vote for re-election.now, i know everyone is not going to feel as i do. but, i felt the need to post as i feel directly betrayed by the csm reps who voted to not do there jobs. still, something this potentially volitile requires:/flamesuit on"
"they're right. as the csm they don't need to be a middleman in this particular case. instead, any player can, with documented evidence of these changes based on test server experience put forward their case to ccp as to why these changes are too much.whereas, the csm is more there for getting ccp to put ideas forward for testing by the player base on sisi.as people will be quick to point out, a large proportion of the player base don't even post on the forums. as a result, as there is only 1200 votes against the nerf out of a subscription base of 200,000 does this mean that 99% of the player base is happy with the proposed nerf? obviously not, but then statistics can always be manipulated to show what the poster wants.agreed with this part, hence why people need to be testing these proposed changes to their limits to show precicely why these changes are a step too far. saying, that \"the nerf is too much as it'll kill x tactic\" isn't enough. turning round and saying \"based on test server experience, the changes to webs 50% effectiveness make blaster boats an unviable prospect due to unforseen effects on transversal velocity. perhaps scaling web effectiveness based on hull mass instead of a fixed percentage would be a better idea lighter ships easier to slow down as there's less mass for the web to have to try to slow down\" would be more likely to get a positive response as it's constructive in it's critisism."
"it is never a good idea to let the inmates run the prison. their interests are not in sync with the purpose of the prison.similar here. all the 'vote' proves is that there is a number of people incl. their alts who are upset their i-win button is taken away from them.it has been proven time and time again that players are the most unsuited to evaluate balance changes, simply because the large majority are not able to see a bigger picture than their own little narrow world.i.e., what broken game mechanics help them feel uber is obviously good for the game! and if you think the csm not telling ccp that there is an issue here will mean ccp are not aware of it, then seriously you should get a clue.csm could go all serious to ccp and say \"there is an issue here with a number of players wanting to keep their i-win button!\", and ccp could just smack their forehead and reply \"thank you for pointing out the bloody obvious!\""
"i think you nailed it there, the nanu nanu wants to keep on winning with a broken feature, they're a cheating breed that will stop at nothing to achieve an unfair advantage.that said i guess it's time to bring out the alt brigade."
"it's frustrating to have to flip back and forth between two \"show info\" windows to compare different module attributes. can the ui be updated to support multiple windows so we can look at the attributes of modules/ships etc. side by side?"
"next time you want another show info window hold down shift when you hit the blue info icon or select show info from a pull down. it will open another window."
"or just turn the option to use only 1 window off in the general settings. :"
"ok, so i'm a noob! i wasn't aware it was even possible. thanks for the suggestions, i'll try them. and now i'll go edit my original subject line so this gets dropped or deleted."
"yep the graphic is ugly and made worse by the fact that in fleet fights, they seem to slow your fps down considerably more than anything else on screen... please changei'm guessing you have an nvidia card, i have exactly the same problem which for some reason only happens on the sensor booster rings and webs... you can fix it by going to you nvidia control panal and 3d settings and disabling \"triliniar optimization\"... least that seems to work on my pc"
"i like the construct of the idea heregets my supportthe \"rock\" fairy"
"even if i somewhat think that these hyper-technologic ships, which in addition seem rather like solid blocks right now, would most likely be able to tolerate a great deal of stress, this whole idea very much appeals to me. and i would like to see it implemented, with or without the changes that i myself have proposed."
"rezaa, check out this thread"
"there's a far wider assortment 1 day alts in the much smaller for nerf thread tbh.it doesn't matter though, voting on same account alts according to ccp is detectable and will be accounted for.or more likely they just won't listen and push through whatever fits their fancy."
"nope, ccp should not ignore input, but they don't have to follow it either. they should read the input, think about it, perhaps test a bit of the alternative suggestions and then react upon it the way they see fit. and that can be to continue without changes."
"oh god, this is hilarity, introduce the beauracracy to stop what the bearuracracy started... like killing yourself with a weapon you made... brilliant!"
"the votes here are to be used as a guide, and not as a final say. ccp has realized there is an obvious speed flaw and is attempting to find a cure. those voting for or against are essentially voting on just how much of a nerf speed tanks get. mark my word... speed will change, with or without support votes."
"oh come on, dont tell me you guys dont ever use ecm?perhaps that's exactly why we need higher meta modules!! it's like there were only t2 gyrostabs and heat sinks !!!supporting myself :d"
"supported. it should be doable because like he says, your ship's computer has to have the navigation info in order to warp to it; there's no real reason i can see that it shouldn't be an option."
"likely it has something to do with:i like your idea for exploration as i've lost a helios to npcs when i got uncloaked and stuck on an asteroid i couldn't see lol, but in terms of pvp, ccp tends to cast the dice in favour of the defender.your change would almost always favor the attacker even in cases where it's presumed the defender has a slight margin of safety or warning they're about to be jumped like running a plex/site in a ship not suitable for pvp."
"even though this would make my job a lot easier i think it would unbalance pvp. making it possible for cosmic signatures only would be fair though."
"maybe just limit this to a certain accuracy ? if you get too close a result, you can not bm it, you have to warp there directly. like 2x grid size would be fine i think."
"i think this is a good idea. it also makes senseish from an in-game standpoint as well."
"supported, at least for exploration sigs, because cov ops have all the tank of a sodden tissue. and gas clouds suck."
"supported"
"back to the top."
"the ui is pretty bad at smaller resolutions. i'm not sure how that can be fixed, but i would definitely support it being fixed if possible. if nothing else, fix it so my gui elements stop hopping about my screen when i close adjacent elements."
"more important than nanonerfs.much more important than walking.more important than fw.the fact it hasn't been seriously looked at is indicative of ccps preference for working on things that sound flashy over working on things that impact the customer base."
"currently, we have the option to export some market information to a file. i would like to see this functionality expanded outside of just the market interface. some other things we should be able to directly export to a filewallet yes i know it can be done out-of-game, but ease of use is importanttransationssecure container access logscorp member list and roles/titlesscience and industrypersonnel asset listetc...the code is already present to allow exported information. this should be a simple code that will make some peoples' lives easier"
"how does what you are asking for differ from the existing mechanic for grouping drones in your drone bay?"
"because you don't need to keep open the whole list of groups in order to be able to launch one. he's asking for a right-click menu option to launch a specific group of drones."
"big thumbs up.what should be a simple thing, for an annoying lack in the drone gui."
"\"perma-sustains 750dps while doing 600dps and has the ability to stay in range to deal that dps \"1 small neut kills you, you have no speed so you can't stay in range, and you're dead without support. i'd call that a useless sitting duck of a ship."
"not supporteddrake has already recived a nerf in the tank department and has the weakest firepower of all the bc.personally i think the drake deserves a firepower increase that it did not revieve last time it was nerfed , 8th launcher slot gets my vote."
"only ppl who do not fly drakes complaine about them, simply because they dont know how it is to fly drake. yes it awesome tanker if it fitted for killing npc's in belts. you complaine about ships what you was after in belts probebly in your nano vaga and was not able to kill it.now i ask you something:if it so powerfull ship was it able to kill you?i guess i know the answere tbh..."
"myrmidon can passive-tank better than the drake. and do more damage."
"do not agree. drake currently well balanced."
"why god wont people just shut up. drake is fine, all its got is tank its useless otherwise... they die just fine, train up your freakin skillz and they go boom. usuck c/d?"
"yes the drakes tank is far to good.we demand the shield resist bonus be turn into a rof bonus this instant!!! - yarr"
"drake is fine as is, as others have mentioned."
"just make a bomber alt, the training time is very short and they are a lot of fun to fly. if training the missile skills is a problem then wait until later down the road. how you think training drones would be any easier i have no idea, because that skill tree is just as time consuming."
"because a caldari soldier starts out with a ton of missile skills, while a gallente spec ops starts out with a ton of drone skills."
"make a caldari soldier then or train the skills on your gallentee spec ops character. its not that hard and the amount of time it would take on your gallentee character isnt long at all. vovi know you want multiple ways to do the samething, but thats just pointless. and can you imagine how overpowered it would be if someone did a ship with bombs and suicide drones?"
"i think that was his point."
"in my mind anything doing something remotely to another ship is using some sort of nanobots already, remote repping, nosferatu...what i think it is you want is mines."
"well, wait...this idea has a few good extensions to it.you could make a specialized ejection module for these drones, maybe with cylindrical tubes with acceleration guides in them so they exit at velocity already. for faster time to target, you can put the acceleration tubes on some sort of swivel mount with a pivot so when they start heading towards their target, they don't have to spend time adjusting course--bonus, since they can use more room for payload!i think we could call these systems robot aassisted impairment lead devices, or railguns for short...i think i could get behind this."
"i want combat wasps like in the night's dawn books."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"you do realise that those are speed fitted battleships?"
"i'm against. mainly because you put the vaga among the frigs and interceptors. vagabond is a hac and should not have speed, agility or mass 8and hence speed like a frig or interceptor."
"15k/s max cap on speedeverything else is called role play"
"one thing that has always bugged me about eve combat is the fact that weapons fire just passes straight through objects like asteroids, stations, etc. as if they weren't even there. it detracts from realism and takes away a lot of potential high-speed tactical maneuvering fun in densely packed asteroid belts. i think it'd be really cool if one could shield one's self from weapons fire by ducking behind an asteroid or a jutting piece of station, forcing your opponent to chace you and keep you literally in his sights. i could see a case being made for certain weapons being made exempt -- drones for instance, obviously, and maybe missiles, since they are presumably smart enough to maneuver around asteroids to the target using sensors. possibly warp disruptors and stasis webifiers as well, since they act by warping space, not simply through channeling energy in a certain direction. but ordinary projectile, hybrid and laser blasts should impact harmlessly on objects between you and the target, leading to a more rich pvp experience in confined areas."
"i concur this would be a kick-ass idea.say i am in a pvp with a buddy and my buddies tank is failing... i could move between him and said aggressor and take some of the work off of said person's hands. i think this would definitely add to the uniqueness and complexity of pvp.the trick is... making such a system functional."
"for a game of eve's scale that would be impossible to implement."
"the problem is, the piloting interface in this game simply isn't up to the challenge. that works fine for wing commander, but when your piloting consists of rotating the screen to double-click as the precise method of picking a direction, trying to put yourself in the way just seems infeasible."
"in truth, the game actually was this way a long time ago; at least for missiles. i remember the heady days when you could use asteroids and such for cover from missile fire.unfortunately, ccp, in their infinate wisdom, declared it a disaster for whatever reason and took it out a few four i think years back now.i'll support this because it would add to the realism, and be cool. but, at the end of the day won't have nearly as huge of an impact on the game as the op thinks.still, it would be nice to have this feature back."
"the game has enough issues with lag, system load, and desyncs with existing collision mechanics. i don't think we need to make it worse, neat-o as it would be to fly into an asteroid field to evade torps.sorry, but no."
"if performance is an issue maybe we should revisit the idea in a few years when everyone has better machines. : technology does tend to improve."
"seriously spouting crap like that is pointless, come back when you learn something about computers."
"look at how ignorant you are.those calculations are handled server-side, then passed on to the client. so......it's server lag not client lag. in case you haven't noticed, eve's server isn't up to the task as is. adding more calculations isn't going to speed things up for anyone.think before you post."
"forgive me if i'm mistaken here, but wouldn't this mean a whole lot of additional calculations?let's say alice the apocalypse is trying to shoot at bob the brutix in an asteroid belt. under the current system, alice calculates hit chance based on bob's signature radius and velocity and her guns' tracking speed and signature resolution i might have missed something else here.if hits are now colliding with things other than bob then we have some problems. since alice's guns aren't installed on the same point on her hull although they could all be aimed at the same point on bob's hull we must run a target line from each hardpoint and check to see if anything is obstructing a particular line of fire. to do that, we'll need to call up the relative positions of every object in the area let's be generous and say a 250km radius from alice, compare alice's guns' positions and bob's position or rather, the point on bob that we're aiming for to see if we have something in the way. of course, objects are \"point masses\" as far as i can tell - check whereabouts on your ship missiles detonate so we'd need to give them volume - yet more calculation. if there is an object in the way of some or all of the guns then those obstructed guns will miss. hopefully, we can then calculate remaining damage as before.yes, it would look cool and add tactical depth if ships are able to use objects as cover but it would make the all computers doing calculations scream for mercy, especially if you have eight guns and a lot of nearby objects."
"this was stopped for a very good reason. it was stopped in the first significant missile review the same patch that removed splash damage as all your corp-war enemy had to do was orbit a gate and eventually your missile would hit the gate or a passer-by and boom - concord on your ass.it was also a significant disadvantage generally for missile users.the reason this couldn't currently be done for turrets is that there's nothing travelling between you and the target as with missiles. there's a shiny graphical effect but there's no code for a travelling projectile round etc, you just get the flash and the to-hit/damage calculations."
"you probebly not playing long enogh this game toknow that what you ask was actyaly before in game. from the begining of this game missels did hit any objects what come in their way be it gates asteroids npc or even passing trough netral pilots not involved in your officel conflicts. what it did result??? ofcourse concord responce and say goodbay to your ship.beleave me if ccp will get that back in game you will be the first who start complaine about that concord did toasted your ship or your ammo/missels did hit completely difrent target  or even your corp/allaince m8 while in big fleet instead of the target what you want to hit.this is what we got in the past and it is bad, i speek out my own experiance and i'm not supporting this idea at all."
"trlol 0/10"
"where are the minmitar events? there have already been big gallente, caldari and amarr events. im wondering why no minmatar events. basically im asking for the council to convince ccp to make an event for the minmatar"
"i have a saying:\"no discrimination, no special treatment.\""
"seconded.however, the use of the term nano*** annoys the hell out of me. is is the use of 'gay' as a derogatory term. that's neither discrmination or special treatment, but implied negativity - which, whilst not directly bad, keeps momentum going on the discrimination. if you see what i mean. i got a bit lost there.hell, eve's oldest character player me is gay.edit: so that means if i find the use of the word 'gay' or '***' as derogatory, i can petition each use of it?fantastic!excuse me whilst i lag the system."
"csm formal meeting 9. sunday 17th august. 16:00 hours eve timeagenda:announcements:1. the \"nano-nerf\" implications as per dev blog - deferred to next session because of sisi rollback2. changing carriers combat roles - bane - voted down 3/63. prime fiction for the 3rd bloodline more needed - jade - escalated 4. motd for fleet/gang window - jade - escalated 5. local chat replacement/removal + here + here removing local as an intel tool - jade/tusko - withdrawn prior to vote since we didn't have tusko's docs.6a. proper bounty hunting for eve - dierdre/arithron - escalated 6b. proper mercenary profession support for eve - dierdre/arithron - escalated 7. improvements for rigs - hardin/omber - escalated8. mission improvements - ank - escalated with edits9. forum change issues - lavista this topic technically breaks the 7 day discussion rule but i'm inclined to make an exception due to the importance of the issue - escalated 5/4 10. ui fixes link to follow - inaana 4 issues all escalated11. specific alternative to speed changes mwd disables weapons - voted down 2/7 jade and ank voted aye12. slash commands - dierdra - escalated13. small anchorable structures - ank - escalated with edits14. ship modifications - lavista - deferred to aob15. radical change to 0.0 sovereignty sov \"points\" from activity -jade voted down 1/816. remote destruction of jump clones - ank - escalated17. using isk towards real world charities -jade voted down 3/619. drone disconnects and quirky behaviour + here -ank bug fix escalated / enduring drones denied.20. gang/fleet bonuses for single race fleets -jade - voted down 1/721. more crossfactional ships -ank - escalated22. specific adjustments to 0.0 sovereignty - jade deferred lack of time"
"i believe its supposed to be the 17th not the 17rd as in 3rd, 23rd, 33rd..etc.outside of that i am looking forward to it!"
"thank you"
"you tell people to adapt, but refuse to do so your self.if you want people to adapt, you must be ready to do so yourself.eve will always change for better and worse."
"exactly. to borrow from pattern, \"should you be able to catch that, which you are unable to trap or unwilling to outmanoeuvre?\"game is getting nerfed down to your level, rather than you stepping up."
"i'd just like to thank bane, darius, tusko, and inanna for screwing the population over and refusing to comment on an ongoing change in gameplay that will affect everyone. especially when you know this is just going to come up down the road later.even ank, the carebear extraordinare, was on the ball with her comment...way to go."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"the last chatlog posted on eve-csm was june 8th. if it was one or two meetings, i wouldn't mind so much, but it's been two months."
"not sure what i can say really. its not my site. i'll keep a record of the chatlogs like i promised and post them somewhere but ultimately the eve-csm stuff will have to wait for serenity."
"sorry if it seemed like i'm blaming you, i'm not. just general annoyance. it's just as much aimed at ccp, of course - if not more, serenity's not getting paid for this - but i don't expect as much out of their soontm as i do from a player."
"could the forum rules be amended so that semi-official csm threads aren't instantly inundated by yet more off-topic demands that jade be burned alive and his family butchered?if agony/veto is going to hijack every thread jade posts in regardless of the content of the original thread, nothing is ever going to get done._____guys, if jade is the bane of your existence and you are determined to have him pulled down and hanged for his terrible crimes, make a thread of your own. that way i can choose not to click on it.thanks."
"when i post, it's with my own opinion, not that of my corporation. if people in my corp happen to post it's off their own backs. i don't see me hijacking any threads, simply putting my albeit harsh opinion forward, to be met with a barrage of abuse and hostility from the csm chair because he can't handle the fact someone feels he's doing a bad job.anyway, not to cause issues here i'll get back on topic.i agree with how the csm have voted regarding the nano changes, i think it's a good idea to see how the patch develops since it's still only in testing on sisi and is subject to change. i think it's also a good idea that the csm are waiting and not jumping the gun on the issue, it's good to see that some of the members can show some restraint and wait to see how the situation will develop. there's been a lot of kneejerk reaction, and it shows some stability in the ranks of the csm that people can sit back and wait for the patch to evolve in testing before they make any suggestions on how to change it. i'm sure ideas and suggestions are already flooding in, past the csm straight to ccp, at least that's how it seems from the game development forum.on a personal note, in most respects i like the changes although it will make life difficult for myself and my corp at times. it's going to make the lives of a lowsec pirate corp a lot more difficult with the arrival of factional warfare, and speed being our only real advantage against the militia blobs. since we rely solely on belt pirating income and try to avoid static camping as much as possible, the changes to how a bubble camp will work and how sucessful it will be don't really affect us.i think that the changes are good for the game overall, and in time people will grow accustomed to them. i'm a bit dubious about the changes to the mwd, and the addition of a scrambler being able to deactivate it, but i think this is purely on personal preference since i have a fondness of blaster boats. blaster boats don't seem too gimped by the state of play on sisi at the current build, and there's always ways to adapt, it just takes time.on a more general note, i respect the fact that this is ccp's game, and we play for the privilege of being able to play it. hence, i'll do what i always do, and encourage my corporation to do the same : adapt."
"apparently you have not read the chatlog. let me enlighten you with a very relevant sample and this is how a thread hijack should be done:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------[ 2008.08.03 19:08:17 ] darius johnson > how many 0.0 sov contests have you been in ankh?<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.03 19:08:33 ] bane glorious > \"it may only work half way, and halfway isn't all the way, but half of the way is still part of the way, and that's worth something\"<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.03 19:08:52 ] ankhesentapemkah > remember i took a tour through 0.0 to ask dozens of people their opinions on that, darius.<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.03 19:09:09 ] ankhesentapemkah > so i got quite a good view what joe average in 0.0 thinks.<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.03 19:09:12 ] darius johnson > man i wish i could do a survey and make sweeping statements about what is good or bad<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.03 19:09:31 ] ankhesentapemkah > well at least i talk to joe averages.<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.03 19:09:31 ] darius johnson > fact: you have 0 experience<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.03 19:09:39 ] bane glorious > i don't mean to be rude, but a few hours maybe? in 0.0 is really not a comprehensive understanding<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.03 19:09:39 ] darius johnson > so don't tell me what's boring<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.03 19:09:44 ] dierdra vaal > guys, we are getting off track here...<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.03 19:09:57 ] ankhesentapemkah > if 50 random people in game say so, who are you to question that?-----------------------------------------------------------------------------yep....i for sure want she-whose-name-sounds-like-sneeze to be involved in anything to do with ship/game balancing.and voting to not have a position on the proposed speed balance changes despite huge feedback threads to the initial dev blog, sisi test commentary in the development forum, and rather large for/against votes in the assembly hall area is generously described as a cop-out. not even an attempt to discuss the mechanics or the scope of the changes. \"wait and see\" is a bit weak given the obvious ccp dev time and software resources spent on getting a full blown patch of this scale onto the test server--or did you folks think they cobbled the whole thing together in 5 minutes. yeeeesh.now mr friendly...squashing dissenting views from active players or paying customers is not the way to go. i don't care if jc & company remain as csm reps..but as the initial purpose of the csm was to act as a quasi-watchdog over future potential abuse ingame by non-players i.s. devs/gm's/whoever i take issue with any of them playing \"game-design god\" on our behalf when they are clearly unable to do so.part of that is ccp's fault for not providing a stricter framework. the balance of blame goes to those who feel the csm is any more than the originally intended watchdog."
"rule, get over the csm as a corruption watchdog rubbish. the idea behind that was thrown out as soon as the csm documents were published by ccp and the direction of the csm was outlined as having nothing to do with that original idea."
"i think the csm's position vis-a-vis the nanonerf is a fair one to take--for now. what people need to understand is that the csm by design is not something that can react quickly, nor should it. it is intended to help address the perceived grievances of the players. at this stage, there are no grievances to be had regarding the nanonerf, since nothing is live.yes, there is a large amount of change and testing going on over at sisi...but its all still being tested and balanced and investigated.if and when the changes get finalized enough to make it into patch notes, then and only then should the csm get involved. the nano nerf is certainly on their radar to keep an eye on, and the vote reflects that. however, it is entirely inappropriate for them to take a stance on something that isn't even in the damned game yet. the csm is a petitioning body and an alternative way to get issues recognized by ccp. ccp can and will also hear out player concerns directly if they feel like it--and i believe they are closely watching the test server forum for just that feedback. theyccp can and will also change anything they want about the game, if they feel like it. we play in their sandbox, not the other way around.nanos will be nerfed. the devs are pretty damn clear on that aspect--if for no other reason than they are straining the obsolete physics engine the game uses. demanding the csm somehow prevent the inevitable is both useless and wasteful of your time in this world. requesting them to have ccp examine or adjust a specific feature of the nerf once it's been relatively finalized, however, is a different situation altogether.now, the points against all the posturing and pointless arguing are quite valid...however i also have to agree that someone shouldn't hold their position as enlightened just because of a random survey. i applaud the motivation behind seeking informed opinion, but a large lump of sodium chloride needs to be taken with it--use something like that to provide some frame of reference, but not the crux of a position.tl;dr: they're dong a decent job. could be tighter, though--but they are acting as a council and not as a rubber stamp."
"hilmar petursson, ccps chief executive, said in a telephone interview. eve online is not a computer game. it is an emerging nation, and we have to address it like a nation being accused of corruption...where you announce your candidacy, and if you win the election, they come here to iceland, and they can look at every nook and cranny and get to see that we are here to run this company on a professional basis.\"the ny times and ceo of ccp are incorrect? interesting."
"but can't we do that? i'm sure if we request it based on player feedback, we can do exactly that.though picture of the csm that was drawn by nyt is not how xhagenthe guy who created csm had intended it, i'm sure we can shape the csm ourselves, enough for it to be the case."
"again, if you want to live in the past, go do so with your triple mwd scorpion."
"are you familiar with the concept of opinion polling? assuming there's no bias in the selection of the \"random\" people, a poll of 50 has a margin of error of about +- 14%, 19 times out of 20. it's hardly a tight error bound, but it is at least indicative of how people think. since i'm not familiar with the sampling method, i can't judge its bias or lack thereof, but 50 is a worthwhile starting point for a poll. it's not as big of a data set as darius would have, of course, but it's a start."
"well, here is the question:do you go opinion polling a bunch of kids if they want to eat icecream for all 3 meals of the day? we all know it's not healthy for them. but if they think they should, hey, why not?"
"your analogy is off. in this particular instance the better question would be \"do you ask a bunch of people who've ever eaten it what ice cream tastes like?\"if i have never tasted ice cream and go out and ask 50 people what it tastes like, that isn't going to give me anywhere near the degree of knowledge actually eating a scoop will give. that's if the people polled even give me good information or the issue were as black and white as what a flavor is. in this case it's not.:edit: to add to this my analogy also sucks because we're comparing something real life physical science can deal with and a video game. there is no past experience to borrow from in a game. you've either experienced a mechanic or you haven't. i hate to speak in absolutes but in this case i'm afraid it is indeed absolute."
"ruleofthebone:the csm is not primarily for acting as ccp's internal affairs because that was what all the commotion was about a year to a year and a half ago. now, nobody is really worried about developer corruption, and the commotion is about game balance and design. accordingly, ccp repurposed the csm as a way for players to express game design concerns with the developers, hopefully separating the crappy ideas from the good ones in the process."
"be serious.nobody wandering about in 0.0 systems where you don't get shot on sight could possibly find a reasonably fair sample of 50 people to ask without extreme bias being driven in through the location of the tour, the fact that busy people won't talk to you, and the fact that a large number of 0.0 residents will shoot you on sight."
"i read over the speed nerf discussion.am disappointed that many of the csm are trying to take a higher-than-thou feedback role, when ccp explicitly asked for sisi testers to provide feedback through a different means.attempting to second-guess developer's decisions before those decisions are finalized is disgusting.that is not the csm's role, half of you recognized that, the other half apparently want to be eve developers.edit: also, about samples of 0.0 stuff. i know most of you hate goons with an unhealthy passion, but darius is really the only qualified among you to speak with any authority on 0.0 concerns.you may not like it, cause you hate his corp, but the rest of you are pretty much inexperienced empire dwellers."
"as above."
"just give us faction ammo for our citadel torp launchers and we'll call it even?"
"role of the csm is to bring issues to the attention of ccp nothing more.game design by \"democracy\" no thanks.that would mean the real fights would end up here on the forums rather than out in space like they should be."
"i have two 22\" widescreen monitors and i want to get a 3rd. totally support this."
"more of this sort of thing."
"oh yes please."
"yes indeed!"
"me wants"
"bright background nebulae in some many systems make it hard to see what's happening with the module slots.[issue] background nebulae interfere with the uithanks!"
"supported"
"they take like three weeks, you scrub."
"/agree!!please fix these ships!!"
"but but but i was going to train for an apoc since our battleships and projectiles suck too!!!!!"
"definately signed.. i have 36 mill sp and battleship level 1... cause everything larger than a cruiser for minnie are horridbtw. the sig bonus on the rag is the sex... trust me, much rather that than agility. it takes poeple much longer to lock youalso, with a rag in gang, and a claw.. your sig radius is 10 :p lol"
"like it alot"
"/signed"
"good idea.i'd also like to see an abilty to rent personal hangars which you can share with other characters. its annoying with several alts to have to switch around all the time to exchange stuff. could also be a nice isk sink."
"while i understand that the dev's would like players to test on sisi server, this i don't mind doing, even bug reporting from it.. i don't really care.but what is an issue:if i train something on sisi, and then it gets mirrored it gets lost, and i have to retrain what i trained to help ccp test.. now to me thats just stupid. why should i help test? give me a bone here ccp, i want to help.. i'm not asking for uber max chars, just make all skills a low rank or something, sure everyone would be omg titan fights to begin with i'm sure of, but more people would help test other ships as well.logicly speaking.edit: way to many typos.."
"quirky, but logical, yes. it's only a test server."
"this sounds like a good idea."
"good plan. and i'm saying that despite the fact that i've known you for a long time and i'm your ceo."
"i am against speed nerf."
"i am against speed nerf."
"i am against speed nerf."
"i am against speed nerf."
"i'm against the speed nerf.it will simplify the game."
"against.these is taking away the sandbox. train skills, think tactically, find friends, or quit."
"this"
"nanoships are finecarebear need a nerf"
"against."
"againstwtf ccp is starting to look like microsoft what we want we do f*** the members you can call the next patch eve - vista then we get the point :pat least make ad something for ships that need speedlike uhhhh the vagabond it will suck after this patch for live but thats what i thinkwas a eve fan but now thinking of going forjumpgate - evolutionblack prophecyfor a space mmo"
"save the vaga!"
"/signedchanges as on sisi are a sledgehammer to crack a nut. why to combat 'ludicrous speed' must normal t2 fits be made redundant?what you should do: - reduce the effectiveness of snakes.- put polycarbons in-line with the other astronautic rigs. ie worse than a t2 nanofibre, but still worth fitting.- introduce the change to warp scramblers, making them shut down mwds.- make webs signature radius dependant so that a battleship, or cruiser running mwd can be webbed 90% by a t2 web, but a frigate not running a mwd will be webbed by as little as 33-40%.- boost the velocity and explosion velocity of precision missiles slightly.what you should not do:- change the current stats or balance of t1, named, t2 and faction speed mods and mwds.- introduce re-activation delay on mwds, this encourages perma-mwd setups. pulsing mwd is a valid and skillful tactic for maintaining range."
"i'm against the announced nerf because it goes too far. for details read the feedback thread.i would support a game balancing nerf of implants, polycarbs and gang bonuses. perhaps a general speed limit of 12-15k to prevent the physics engine going crazy."
"a better solution"
"for minmatar and diversity"
"i'm for the balancing of ludicrus speed, absolutely. that means \"yes to the nerf\" if you didn't get it.all of you here are just whining because you'll get no more safe, free kills. the proposed changes will bring a new life to pvp in eve. and it's way, way, way overdue.i hope ccp won't cave to the whiners that can't adapt.no my pvp alt does not fly caldari"
"against!"
"strongly against!!!"
"well i've added the speed nerf issue to the agenda again for the august 17th meeting and urged all the csm delegates to make the effort to get onto sisi for the two intervening weeks so we can hopefully have a more useful discussion at the next meeting. fingers crossed we get something more useful from the next one. for the record: jade, omber zombie, ben derider, ank voted for a statement on the nano nerf last meeting. bane glorious, darius johnson, inanna and tusko hopkins voted against. if you feel that any of the csm delegates who would ordinarily be representing your interests on this issue have made a mistake then i'd advise you to evemail, convo, or otherwise engage them in discussion and let them know what you think."
"i really really like the nano nerf, but doing missions in my raven is going to take a crapload of time now, because the base speeds were lowered significantly. how bout adding more mass instead and making afterburners less viable to mass changes?"
"against"
"a g a i n s t"
"a g a i n s t"
"a g a i n s t"
"a g a i n s t"
"/signedagainst"
"a g a i n s t"
"a g a i n s t"
"1. this thread is for voting against the nerf, if you a for the nerf go to the other thread2. afaik you and a lot others were whining, that explains why ccp made these changes3. explain how the nerf will bring new life to pvp4. ccp listened to whiners, like you, too long and now they are doing wrong just to satisfy all you caldari carebears, because your crappy fitted drakes and caracals die so fast, no matter if it is a nano or a tanked ship that kills you.5. ahahahahaha-------------/against"
"5.3kmmax for a stiletto?4.3km for hyena?3.6km vaga3.4 for interdictors!?!?sorry everything dies at these speeds"
"yes, supported, thank you!!!even if this ends up being limited to up to one skill inline ready to start training automatically, for crying out loud, please do it!!!"
"anything over 8 hours i dont mind cause i can set it before i sleep... or work... but 2-7 hour skills are a pain."
"added to the topic index thread to hopefully get a slot in there."
"it was so much easier to see your mods, before the changed the button/hud structure for heat."
"voting for both an option to tune down brightness and clearer module buttons."
"i don't think the backgrounds need changing. just make some adjustments to the ui itself so that it's easy to see across any background."
"yep my alt has one in his head. luckily it was a gift from a friend.a time bonus is completely useless for invention. especially if the inventor has a pos with labs.but here is a forgotten issue by ccp that i would say is a far larger problem:"
"i vote against.. you kno why my claw has only 3 turrets instead of the four is should have to keep up with its twin the crusader? cause theres not enough visual hardpoints... i dont care gime moar guns!!!!!! ayrrrrrscrew the graphics.. are you seriously telling me you stare at your ship...gameplay, is priority. i dont care what those little squares and x's on my screen look like when zoomed in on"
"support"
"support"
"support"
"rl has most scams falling under effects baised legislation insted of intent baised. so someone who finds a loophole to scam can still get thrown in jail if they are working against the \"spirit of the law\", even if he did not break any rules. thats all because of all the scams conrad black did in the past due to the loopholes he found.how you going to add in effects baised legislation in eve? you cannot so all you can do is gives the share trading tools to the players and keep out of the scam side. even something simple as doing a rights issue would create problems. is the company creating new shares to scam people? or are they creating new shares with intent of giving their customers them for free and so the shares become more liquid? i would like it to work but its just going to be a nestbed of scams."
"i like this idea.there should also be some short-selling functionality. this would add a new dimension to inter-corp warfare. of course, i'd like to see futures contracts with items, too."
"nice post praeanyways i agree and disagree..theres loads of us who prefer small scale pvp, even if there werent lag. i for one am one of those people. but making large scale more appealing wouldnt hurt :d"
"this is insane. a tempest can fire as fire for as much dps as any of the other races fleet battleships. at 250km there dps in practically the same. if it must have a buff i think the only real argument is based upon clip size. that imo tho is countered by the alpha."
"what?got some numbers to support that, champ? because i've got some numbers that say otherwise. for just a small sample, see: this thread and every other thread on the issue. also, as everybody is saying in this and many other threads, alpha means damn near crap all post hp-buff and trimark/extender rigs."
"if you wanted it to be more like rl artilliary you'd change the clip size to be equal to the amount of ammo in your hold and make the rof something like 20 seconds between shots. this would reflect the guns being reloaded after every shot.but that idea is fairly stupid also. as previously mentioned, the dps is ok on the 1400mm, but the alpha is lagging far, far behind. also there is the fact that the clip size is not fit for purpose when the laggy state of most fleet fights is taken into account."
"it helps to actually pilot the ship before making false statements like these... artillery has the lowest dps of the fleet ships, and the worst range. a tempest needs 2 sensor booster iis with scripts to lock out about 190km, whereas megathrons, rokhs, and apocs can all lock well above 200km, some even with only 1 sensor booster. artillery has the worst tracking of the bunch, meaning the chances of all its rounds hitting are slim. additionally, artillery has the shortest range, getting an optimal of about 160km with tremor, and as most fleet fights are at about 180km+, the tempest is fighting in falloff, reducing its dps even further. and your comment about alpha, amarr can out-alpha minmatar easily, with much more dps, range, and tracking."
"a variant of your idea:modern artillery systems actually fire their shells at different speeds so that all rounds from a single volly arrive at the same time. why not make the arty do the same thing.the in-game behavior would looks something like your clip empties into space perhaps over 20-30 seconds with no immediate effect. however on the last round from the clip the damage is all calculated at once and applied.this would have the same dps over time but would apply it in one big scary block which gives little time for shield/armor regen."
"just get it so that the alpha can top 8k at least. tach's will put out 6k no problem. nobody's asking to be the best all-around weapon.give a tempest an 8k alpha and suddenly mini bs's will have a niche as best hit-and-run fighters. nano-tempest ftw."
"tempest:lows: 3 gyro ii's 1 tracking enhancer ii 1 reactor control ii 1 1600 platemids: 2 tracking computer ii's optimal 3 sensor booster ii's rangehighs: 6 1400 ii's tremor.rigs: 2 proj locusdoes 356 dps max skill @ 250km cap stable with a tracking of 0.003apoc:lows: 3 heat sink ii's 2 tracking enhancer ii's 1 reactor control ii 1 1600 platemids: 3 sensor booster ii's optimal 1 cap recharger iihighs: 7 tach ii'srigs: 1 ccc 1 energy locusdoes 351 dps max skills @ 250km cap stable tracking of 0.005rohk:lows: 3 mag stabs 1 rc ii 1 1600mids: 2 tracking computer ii 2 sensor booster ii 2 cap recharger iihighs: 8 425 iirigs: 2 hybrid burstdoes 334 dps max skills @ 250km cap stable tracking of 0.003megathron:lows: 3 mag stab ii's 3 tracking enhancer ii's 1 1600mids: 3 sensor booster ii's 1 tracking computeriihighs: 7 425 iirigs: 2 hybrid locusdoes 351 dps max skills @ 250km not cap stable tracking of 0.005"
"dude you are just flat out wrong.if my tempest gets 350 dps at 250 km, then that means at 200km, im getting 700 dps because optimal + falloff = 50% hits.so, my pest setup with 3 locus rigs and two tracking computers gets an optimal of 200km with 350 dps over ten shots. there is no way in hell you can get 250km optimal with a tempest. indeed, dropping my 3 gyros for 3 tracking enhancers would only get me to 228km and give me 220 dps. w00t way to fly the ship. and saying that everybody performs the same at 250km so nobody should worry again shows that you are merely an eft warrior and don't know a damn thing you are talking about. nobody warps a fleet to 250km and says \"start shooting\" even warping to 200km is rare. most engagements are 160km - 180km.ok, you provided tracking numbers, do you know what it means? bring up your eft and create a dps graph against a caracal. put your tempest in there, put your apoc in there and set the speed to 70% for the attackers. why is the apoc insanely better in this graph? it has superior range, tracking, and is slower meaning its aligned, instawarp speed is slower than the tempest's resulting even better tracking."
"not to mention that you're all pretty much tinkering with rather extreme ranges here, and that while very much intended for fleet, even battleships shouldn't be so single-purposed or inflexible as to all fall into a universal 'big long-range paperweight' category."
"artillery are a joke"
"."
"non player characters that interact with poeple would be cool.. or even if they were controlled by ccp when they are 'bored' or something..."
"good ideas. i'd love to see these implemented....too many rig bpo's/rig part just sit idly in my hangars because no one uses them..."
"a great, well-considered suggestion that would dramatically improve rigs past the old standbys of the ccc, smc, acr, trimark, purger, optimization, and polycarbon, and a few others for specialists. i don't think all the proposals you listed should be made into rigs, but a lot of them are really good ideas. definitely worth the thumb.edit: whoa, i missed this part: you, sir, are my hero."
"yeah, it's been almost 2 years now so some kind of \"rigs 2.0\" patch is long overdue. it's boring only ever fitting like 4 different rigs most of the time. to reiterate the op, there are a lot that could be good but their bonus is just too marginal or there's another that's stupid not to fit instead. plus it would be fun to have new rigs for things like heat, jump drives, nos ratio, sig radius, etc."
"i support a general revisiting of rigs by the developers with an eye towards both useless and trumps-everything-else rigs. not necessarily the specifics in the op, but the concept is good."
"thanks for the support guys. yes, it is mainly the idea i am plugging, not specifically any specific changes. i have not put many raw numbers/% in, and where they are, only for example, e.g. to show that you could make a warp speed rig give a ridiculously large % and it would still be balanced and might persuade someone to use one. similarly, with the list of proposed new rigs, i split them into \"no balance changes\", \"might do balance changes\" and \"lol would unbalance all sorts of things\" for that reason - i dont think they all should be made into new rigs. but i feel all of column a and most of column b at least would be super amazing hotness."
"awesome."
"bump"
"while i don't want to see any changes to existing useful rigs cccs, anps, etc., i would love to see the useless rigs get improved."
"aka sarmaul is better than ccp as an alternate solution to the \"speed problem\", i ask that ccp considers the following solution proposed by sarmaul:1 when an mwd is activated, all weapon systems are deactivated and can only be reactivated once the mwd is turned off. turrets, drones, launchers and smartbombs stop dealing damage completely while the mwd is active.2 afterburner speeds are increasedthis achieves the following:1 mwds are used for rapid positioning: getting into a fight, getting out of a fight or charging down enemies.2 disengaging becomes more difficult for mwd users: when you attempt to disengage by mwding away, you can't kill the ceptor that is chasing you down anymore with low transversal. if the tackling ship catches up to you, you are in real trouble.3 abs are used for fighting.4 pure tackling ships can still use their mwd and tackle.this change along with some other tweaks such as nerfing polycarbons and nerfing snake implants can balance the speed problem entirely."
"for great justice.also, 1st."
"mix that with reduced webs and you've got a deal."
"this is harsher than ccps idea....at least vagas kinda survived then-against-"
"how? how? honestly, explain this line of reasoning. please. under this new proposal, the vagabond gets to keep it's speed, but loses it's ability to solowtfpwn ratting ravens and the like, which seems to be people's primary beef with the ship.not to mention that this removes the need for all the other unfathomable changes, like the increased mass for minmatar battleships, the newfound utter uselessness of medium and large blaster ships, and the forced obsolescence of interceptors.this is the most sensible and elegant solution to a \"problem\" that was, in all honesty, quite limited and manageable to begin with."
"/sign"
"i disagree, and the vagabond is by far my favourite ship and has been for a very long time.this fixes the problems with ships such as the ishtar, that were able to do more or less full damage even while running their mwd.will this make the vagabond's life harder than what it is on tq currently? definitely. this change, especially with the web changes, would be great."
"yes, it hurts the escape prospects of a vaga facing a fleet with interceptors, but if you think this plan is worse for the vaga then it's obvious you've never flown one. vagas already do virtually no damage orbiting with the mwd on due to tracking. the ships that sarmaul's proposal hurts the most are the nanoishtar and nanosac, who were imbalanced due to their ability to orbit an opponent at mwd speeds while doing full damage."
"remember to click the \"support this topic\" checkbox if you agree ;"
"okay i kinda like it. definitely have something here."
"adsfsadfsadfasdasfasd!wow! check this out!but, this idea has my support."
"fixes nanos without rendering ceptors and blasters useless. get's my vote"
"sar's idea is slightly more eloquent and would require less code / ship overhauling."
"this idea rocks.and he's changing two modules...how many ships / modules is ccp changing in this one patch??? oh yea... all of them.fire those responsible for the nano nerf and hire this guy!"
"it's balanced between reducing the uber speed, yet still allowing ships that need ceptors, blasterboats, etc use speed. good idea."
"i would like to see this idea tested out on sisi.it still needs some tweaking me thinks, but the rest of those little things will show up in testing."
"looks good, tastes good too!"
"supported. it makes sense, still leaves those who depend on their mwd to tackle to maintain their already low survivability in combat, provides a strong bonus with fitting either module in 0.0, keeps the mwd bonus of certain gallente ships intact, and...and...well, there's too much nifty stuff this idea \"handles\". supported.benzy"
"i support this idea."
"one great aspect of this plan that i haven't heard mentioned is that it maintains the balance of bubble camps in 0.0, allowing a prepared pilot to have a chance of reapproaching the gate under fire."
"so simple... yet so effective.should scrams still turn off mwd's?"
"good idea, only bad thing i can think of is that it would kill interceptor dog fights.maybe interceptor's get a ship bonus making them immune to the change? can't really see any balance problems with that."
"i like. ccp sarmaul imho."
"/signed yeah yeah i know ...."
"sounds much better than the current changes on sisi thats for sure."
"weirda support - this interesting and may just work. would not like to lose other changes though *cough assault frigate boost*"
"pretty decent idea, and much less of a sweeping change than what is currently on sisi. i'd be willing to give it a try."
"it's intelligent feedback like this that we all wish we could get."
"well, it also has the advantage of obviating, rather than making further adjustments to, the changes currently on sisi. since such sweeping changes have resulted in all sorts of unintended consequences, it should be clear that the simpler the solution the better for all involved.in all fairness, i do find it annoying that missiles currently have no \"second counter\" aside from ecm. if defenders worked, i might feel differently. but point defense of some kind certainly would go a long way towards evening the odds against missile spammers in the new, slower galaxy we're all soon to be inhabiting"
"simple solution, check.makes rp sense, check.solves major beefs with nano ships, check.doesn't break inties, blasterships, hacs, fleet/bubble maneuvring, check.doesn't make people regret zillions of sp or isk spent and whine for hours on forums, check. lets do this."
"lol if ccp had proposed this everyone would have been against. also it would mean if you turn your mwd off in your blaster ship you need to wait till its cycle end before you can actually start firing."
"if mwd will become run away/get in combat module should be abit more effective"
"yesits a good place to start, one simple change"
"yes yes yes yes yes *gasp* yes yes yes...you get the msg, any but the current nano nerf"
"better than the sisi stuff atm. :p"
"i like the idea of making the mwd for maneuvering, and the ab for combat speed.i was gonna write some stuff about the other changes i like with this proposal by sarm... but. yeah. why pollute this thread.gogo maneuver drive!"
"make mwds scripted.... so you can change between ab and mwd.. then maybe this would work thinking of intys and frigatesor! just allow the max of one of each speed mod... wow.. problem solved"
"i really like this solution. this is an elegant fix for the speed problem, and will have *much* fewer unintended consequences than the current sisi patch. dear ccp:feel free to mix and match this proposal with specific element of the sisi patch-- af boost is great-- polycarbon nerf is appropriate-- snake set nerf is understandable-- the new warp disruptor mechanics, in conjunction with the webifier nerf, are great -- if specific ships or modules are out of balance, targeted stat changes are fine.just please don't change all combat mechanics and ship stats at once. fixing unintended imbalances created by the current sisi patch would keep your balance team busy for a year or more. please give this alternative some thought."
"you're exactly right, congratulations. it's a shame that blaster ships don't generally carry fat armor-plated hp buffers, because that would allow them to mistime their approach and still survive long enough to kill their tar... owait... not to mention that at the absolute worst that's a 10 second wait before your still highest raw dps weapons system in the game proceeds to chew through them. it would require a tiny bit of finesse, not quite so much as kiting at the bleeding edge of web range in an ac cruiser, but still.more seriously, you might also be right that if ccp had proposed it the player base would have crapped on it as well. however, it still would have at least been a moderate, limited change to one or two modules, rather than a ham-handed sweeping overhaul of fundamental game mechanics."
"spaketh, the truthiness has been."
"sarmaul is a genius, c/d?c"
"against. still don't really think speed is that much of a problem, there is no need for this when they could just do a smaller nerf of polycarbons, snakes, and gang boni."
"sounds damn hot."
"this is true, but it seems clear that ccp are not content with that, but want to address the current over-reliance on speed as well. which is reasonable, as is this suggestion."
"this is the thread for bonii. seriously, how many people actually think that's the proper plural?so if speed isn't that much of a problem why should polys snakes and gang bonuses get nerfed? i happen to agree with you on this point it's pretty clear that ccp is going to cave to the whiners in some form, we might as well argue that there's a better way to do it. and unfortunately, smaller, reasonable adjustments seem to be out of favour in iceland. this idea is new enough that it might get their attention, while being low-key enough to not, say, render several entire classes of ships and combat tactics useless."
"it sucks, a vaga that doesn't shoot with the mwd on is even more useless than a slow vaga tbh."
"oh wow. wait till your corp mate dinique gets hold of you. great idea though. much more subtle than ccps mass nerfbat usage of reckless abandon."
"fixed your post. here's a protip: if you're orbiting a target in a vagabond and you actually want to hurt it, you need to moderate your speed so that you're not orbiting at a radial velocity that exceeds the tracking ability of your guns.this change would make it impossible to run away and shoot a tackling interceptor off you at the same time, which would force you to make a tactical choice regarding the best way to extract yourself from your current situation. but that's something decent nano pilots are familiar with already, so it shouldn't be a problem."
"you mean that they know anything but how to line themselves up for the best trajectory? so far, i haven't seen much else..."
"this deserves to be tested with a poly and a snake nerf, and nothing else, to see how it holds itself up.it makes more sense than a lot of stuff that makes it onto sisi.ccp, if you have a shred of respect for players opinions regarding game mechanics, you will lend serious thought to this change as an alternative to the potential overhaul you intend. it's simple, it works, it provides utility for both modules. did i mention it's simple? and it wouldn't require the total database tweak you intend.apolluon"
"your post proves that you've never flown a vaga or that you're just bad at it. if you get in a fight the job of a vaga is often to get rid of support ships and you have to do it with the mwd on... and believe me man, you can track with the mwd on when flying a vaga... if you do it right of course.same discussion can be made with ships like zealots or curses, you need to keep your speed up or missiles will just **** you."
"looks good, especially the bit about buffing abs. also this way you don't need to screw with webs."
"oh but making it a useless ship is -so- much better, amirite?fully support this thread."
"hello, i am the tracking guide. i wish to inform you that after performing several calculations on a vagabond vs a 140m signature target, using a 220mm acii...the best case scenario for being capable of orbiting said target outside of web range provided me with a whopping 11.64 orbit, at 2000m/sec. using republic fleet emp, that nets me an overall average chance to hit of only 11%, with a single gun dps output of approximately 1.72 yes, one point seven two.of course, implants and overal skills were not taken into account with this, and may account for the capability of actually being able to perform up to twice that's 2x that damage, at twice 4000m/sec those speeds.so, to summarise...failapolluon"
"i love this idea."
"any interceptor that lets a vagabond get zero transversal on it deserves to die, quite honestly. your post didn't mention anything like clearing support, a job that hacs in general excel at. there are certainly circumstances where any ship might desire to continue shooting people with it's mwd on, not just the vagabond. this change would entail an adjustment to current high-speed tactics, yes, but saying that the vagabond in particular would be useless because of it is just silly.if you really do have an in-depth, informed opinion, something i'm not prepared to rule out completely, then explain yourself more clearly next time so we can have a decent discussion. one sentence \"this sux\" replies don't earn you much respect in this thread."
"flat out removing local : no."
"this. i am open to better ideas, but until i see one, i'd say that people need to learn how to work their way around the local issue. whether it be alts or just being smarter than your enemy, it really isn't that hard except for the cloaking raven isk farmers, but let's face it, they will find another way."
"well boy-genius, how are you going to find targets if they don't show in local? i don't know about you but when i'm roaming i don't want to have to drop scan probes in every bloody system i pass through to find something to shoot at."
"yeah because you'll never be in 0.0 to use it!"
"thats the point though: there is no way to work around it.you appear in local a few seconds before you even try to load grid, hence bacon and its overwhelming gayness. by the time your in, and scanning, the ratters, macro, wtfever is already in warp to its ss or tower. it then cloaks, logs off, or pos hugs for an eternity, until you go away.thats completely balanced and fair isn't it?...oh wait, its not.if i needed to keep a cov ops on all roams i went on, so be it, whatever it takes to take the \"i win\" button everybody is so fond of using out of 0.0. as it stands right now, you could have an army of 15 second scan cov ops with you and you will still rarely catch ratters or guys in 0.0 who have local open at all.every one in eve seems so up on the \"balance\" trip lately, well, wheres the balance there? you can rat all day with 0 risk to your ship simply because you fit a cloak on a non cloaking bs, or you have a tower in system? what in that deserves immunity from pvp?it should be work for roamers to catch you, but it should be just as much work for you to avoid roamers, and right now that simply is not even close to the case."
"it would be the biggest nerf to mining since the drone regions. this lame idea benefits the agressor and the maneuverable. mining is static, and the vessels are achingly slow. implement this idea if you want ships and mods to be 5 times more expensive."
"so what your saying is that just because your a miner, you should automatically get a free ride, and be safe from being attacked at little to no effort expended by yourself."
"not sure removing local and not introducing something else to the game is the best idea, but in principle, local needs a complete rework from the fail-safe intel tool it is today."
"no what he is saying as a miner he doesnt want to see his risk triple and his rewards stay static. make mining in 0.0 with the increased risk worth an increased reward so he can pay someone to watch a gate then he might give you a deal. i also cannot support this issue without a substantial increase in reward to go along with the increase in risk."
"ya would be nice if i could move that one or two battleships with out having to pull out my freighter would be nice."
"anything that would make people fly amar ewar or use target painters without being the gang's laughing stock is good in my books.please do not constraint yourselves to my original implementation. i mean my real proposal is to try and make people fly in fleets of the same faction ships in order to get their bonii and penalties in line. the rest was just an example of what could be, so please, brainstorm away!the potential exploit where people would make four separate fleets is truly something i hadn't thought of to be honest. no idea how to get around it either other than it would be pretty tough to command such a setup.sure, though i think it was catchy :-p"
"this is.. best idea ever! ot: how do i put in my vote for it??"
"edit your post then tick support this topic right above your name"
"this sounds crazy.it \"solves\" a problem that doesn't seem to exist.it involves a huge bonus stacking up, which will inevitably lead to imbalance. instead of one ship being overpowered, or one tactic, it would just be one entire race, that entire corps or alliances would be forced to train.it screws over any small group that doesn't have universal skill training. it's anti-sandbox.oh, and wouldn't people just form 4 gangs with their mixed-race gang instead of one?no support, this is mental."
"sometime you do need to put aside your analytical balance head and just go on what \"feels right\" and you got to admit those single race ships in the eve trailers do look pretty sweet. look upon it as an aspiration for training that will add another factor to the equation of how to build the best fleet. hell, i could even design the rp tech justifications for this :"
"exactly. a problem doesn't exist, pr say, but an important roleplay mechanic here does not exist. if only warfare links are used, then it simply makes racial command ships more efficient at giving certain bonuses that are appropriate to the storyline, as well as racial ships better at receiving those bonuses.my version of the idea has nothing to do with multiple fleets - it could be in multiple wings and really bypass the mechanic but still requires organization. change these to fleet-only increases, and if someone can field 4 racial command ships... more power to them tbqh.the idea gives an advantage to players who decide to field ships that were designed and engineered to work together in-game. maybe make this mechanic only work in fw with the appropriate race so that ships with militia pilots benefited from the navy doctrine."
"well, as analytical and number-crunching and hardcore-balancing as i am, this suggestion just... appeals to me somehow. not without stacking penalties for this and the command ships, but with a bit of tweak...rock on."
"yeah ccp i'm sure will figure out the numbers and w/e. it's not such a huge advantage, just enough of a boost that it is an incentive.jade, you're taking this topic?"
"yep. i'm adding it to the august 17th meeting and will be advocating it there."
"hey allthough it looks interesting at first glance, this is in fact worst game development idea i ever heard, first of all it ignores all the things that make eve a great game, freedom of choice, freedom of asociation and the deliberate absence of standard god mode solutions, this is an anti sand box approch... and then you contradict yuorself, you state at first that ppl tend to gravitate around the best solutions for the required job, witch always creates a trend in the game, ie. nos fest, nano bs's, damps, nano t2 cruisers etc.. and then yuo say that the same ppl wouldn't mind chosing a bad ship that on your terms compliment a fleet.. why would anyone wanna' be the tracking link provider in a fleet ?, would you fly logistics or a cov ops for 6 months on end for your corp alliance while you also have the choice of dps boats, ewar etc..? who decides who flyies what? and do you completly take the ability to chose from the individual? then again you ignore the financial aspect of things, for the vast majority of the eve player base, making isk is a time consuming job, so why would i fly, for example, an absolution over a geddon in a fleet when the first costs me 160 million to loose while the geddon only 40, even tho i may be the best absolution pilot in my corp, skill wise ? and lastly you ignor the most important aspect of all this, witch is time.. basic specialization in a single race takes about 7-8 mil sp's in spaceship command, around 7-8 mil in gunnery/missiles/drones and around 5-6 mil in support like engineering/electronics/mechanic/science etc so multiplying that by 4 takes you to a minimum of around 80 million sp's to get all races.. how many characters in your corp have 80 million sp's ? and why would you chose over the board mediocrity over single race excellence ? i could go on but i already made my point, this is the worst way a game like eve could \"evolve\". zam"
"alternatively how cool it would be for a bunch of 4m skillpoint hurricane pilots to kick the heck out of a standard \"elite pvp\" mixed group with some good loadouts and a little minamatar single fleet leadership mojo bonus. sometime you have to think cosmetic sex appeal and just how great that would look."
"but you supported it? i'm actually confused, but i'll repeat my points just in case lol.main point - not a huge advantage, just a minor incentive that makes the specialization worthwhile for mechanical and rp reasons. the only argument is the following: doesn't it make sense that, for example, minmatar ships should be better at distributing skirmish warfare links?and i love flying support ships, and nobody forces me to do that. if i could fly command ships that's probably going to be my main fleet ship."
"eat a ****, bob. you old established people who think it's all about your fun are really the only ones who stand to lose anything through a change like this. and only if you refuse to adapt and reorganize. oh, and get a dictionary.i can agree with that, but you'd have to pitch the minnies something more in that case.off topic, i wonder, jade... have any csm members looked over any of my proposed changes to mwds/nanos/missiles vs ecm/minmatar weapons/recons, etcetera? i might sound selfish saying this, but i honestly think that i try harder than most people on here to even things out. and considering my current situation, i sort of lack a lot of self-interest in these issues, while having a lot of enthusiasm for the game..."
"if sex appeal is your main concern i can agree that single race fleets make for internet spaceship ****, but choice freedom, ballance and the absence of standard \"win/win\" solutions are far more important for me..zam"
"bitter much!?p.s. english is my 3'rd languagep.p.s. you seem to lack a first"
"actually i think this would be way too powerful. the stacking would have to come down hard. ideally it would have the best effect on the fleet booster in a gang of racial sub-capitals. this restriction would make it true to the op. so i propose the following addendum, using minmatar as the example<command ship>25% increase in skirmish warfare and siege warfare gang link bonus to minmatar ships when pilot is set as fleet booster.4 hurricanes should be good but i don't think it's the intended effect. a well mixed pvp fleet with tacklers, ewar, and dps should be able to beat 4 bc. however, if two fleets have roughly the same makeup but one is all one race with a highly trained fc or booster flying a command ship, it should lean in their favor."
"perhaps a bit, but i'm roaming fountain. so can you blame me?also, om du inte f<U+FFFD>rst<U+FFFD>r det h<U+FFFD>r, le aconsejo no hacer asunciones tan r<U+FFFD>pidamente.und es ist alles, dass ich dar<U+FFFD>ber sagen muss."
"grudges aside. zamol is only trying to make sure that the interests of the sand-box are protected. i support the idea of making a nice incentive for single race fleets as i feel, the same as some of you do, that there is something inherently good about it. however, a compromise must be made of course.just don't let the option of a mixed fleet become less effective by such a margin that it would cease to be a realistic choice... because that would truly kill the sandbox."
"grudges aside. zamol is only trying to make sure that the interests of the sand-box are protected. i support the idea of making a nice incentive for single race fleets as i feel, the same as some of you do, that there is something inherently good about it. however, a compromise must be made of course.just don't let the option of a mixed fleet become less effective by such a margin that it would cease to be a realistic choice... because that would truly kill the sandbox."
"my bad for the double post"
"racial fleets in trailers do look pretty sweet, agreed.at the end of the day though, isn't this an idea to try and promote a /very/ specific playstyle for fleet composition. now, we all know from long experience that the only playstyle that will dominate gang pvp, be it small or large, is the one that works best. it is that binary - either nobody will use it, or everyone will.this gives us two situations: a the proposed bonus is \"balanced\": after being ****d in the face by a mixed gang that can take advantage of damage types, racial ecm, and cross-race mix-and-matching e.g. eos bonus on a falcon, nobody will ever try to use a one-race fleet again.or b the bonus given is so huge that it makes the game suck for anyone who isn't doing single-race fleets. you can say it makes a valid training goal, but you're wrong. what it actually means is \"you are forced to cross train to this corps 'race' or abandon your long-term in-game and real-life friends\". this will go further, until it gets to the point that you can only pick your 0.0 alliance if you are specced to the right place. amarr spec? you can pick bob or some drone region peice of ****. caldari spec? goons or nothing. etc etc.it also means minor balance changes by ccp would obsolete entire alliances. you wake up in the morning and you've lost three regions because today minmatar sucks. if this idea is escalated i will be nearly as appalled as \"musical instruments\"."
"why turn this into caod ? there is no reason to turn this into a forum war, it's just an idea.i will try to answer a few of your arguments guys, but please be civil.i have no idea how many fleet ops or roaming gangs you've been in, but fcs do have a very big say on what people will bring. and generally people bring what fc says. at least the fleets and gangs i've been on, we have people that will insist on flying recon or logistics or hac or bs. they like that and they do it. eve has quite a lot players to make sure that you will always have something of each class if you wish.i don't understand that, sorry.true, you will get 80mil sp in about 4 years of playtime. i am pretty sure a lot of already 4 year old players have already crosstrained and almost all new players have a character which they intend to crosstrain in the next 4 years. so, what exactly is your argument ? that people will have something to look for in the end game apart from the run of the mill doomsday device v character ?"
"very legitimate worries all these. i won't pretend i have answers, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't work on it for a bit. i mean we can't alway be afraid of how players might \"exploit\" changes or features because then we wouldn't change or introduce anything. shouldn't poses or sovereignty have been introduced ? because you see those have been abused to hell imho.edit: as for the \"screwing\" of small corps i do have an answer. i think that in fact, it will easier for small low sp corps to adapt, since they will have to work together on what to do next. most corps have min requirements for joining, if some of those turned into \"must fly gallente cruisers and minmatar battlecruisers\" it wouldn't be too bad. i mean it does sound much better than just \"must have 5 mil sp at least\"as for alliances turning all to one race, i doubt it. if the specs for this are released, say 6 months prior to any actual changes, any alliance will have time to formulate a skill plan for its members in order to be ready for it. it might even give them bored cap pilots a new... \"vision\" :-i agree it will inconvenience some players, but honestly, once you are past the 20-30mil sp mark, all you need to do is cruiser v for all races and maybe another med weapon specialization. it's not that bad, i think and once it becomes mainstream, any new player will prepare for it beforehand."
"*push*"
"continuation from op~~~this system would encourage more alliances to recruit the miners/npcers of eve into 0.0. these players would then feel like they can and are effecting 0.0 sovereignty, encouraging them to come out to 0.0 also. these players would also provide more targets to pvpers, encouraging them to roam in small groups. i believe this would give more purpose to smaller groups and encourage smaller gangs to roam around stopping people gaining points and reinforcing their sov. the more smaller gangs roaming around also means more smaller gangs running into each other and causing smaller fights spread over many systems. while this is all going on there would still be the same incentive to fight large battles over the best resourcesmoons as there is now and also if you had the ability to brute force your way in you could lock people from their assets by taking their stations.i believe this would make it a lot harder for alliances to control vast swathes of space and compress people more densely, opening up a lot more space for people to exploit and find their own little niche."
"everytime my client crashes and my ship gets emergency warped away my drones stay where they are and getting happily killed by rats.why can't they have some sort of ai that tells them to warp to my ship?"
"they could either do that, or make npcs immediately deagress when you get a disco.loosing 5 mill in drones every time my client bugs up or some idiot in cable maintenance cuts the wrong wire is very very annoying.i never heard of drake or raven loosing 5 mill worth of launchers when they disconnected, have you?"
"agreed. if you warp away by your own free will it's all good and well but drones should be added to the emergency warp."
"*nods* i rarely use drones for just this reason, and i never risk t2 drones anymore."
"drones don't have warp drives. fighters do. when you ewarp you go 1m km out, then when you relog/resync you turn around and warp 1m back. the drones would have to follow you in warp out and back for this to work.as much as i'd love ewarp retention of drones, it wouldn't be supported by current mechanics. there's a reason why fighters cost 15m a pop.the best you can hope for is for drones to be 'reeled in' or return to the dronebay, i think."
"i'll support this, if only the drones instawarp away into never-never land, never to be seen again. i'd just love to see someone losing a pvp battle pull a logoffski, and then see their ship go one way, and their drones, another.that would be funny!"
"instead of warping off upon disconnect, the drones should make an attempt to return to the player's ship before it warps off.anyways, i support this."
"if it's possible to implement, supported"
"be nice if drones at least tried to return to the ship or something."
"even if they just came back under my control when i relogged and came back, that would help immensely. but yes, some solution so that a power flicker while playing doesn't cost me a rack of hammerhead iis would be much appreciated, and i don't care too much what that solution is."
"i'd vote for two things in particular.1 drones reestablish connections when you return to the area. that way, if you manually warp away, and turn around, you can recall them as soon as you arrive instead of scooping them.one small and amusing imo exploit would be cloaking. a ship deploys drones, and then cloaks. when someone approaches the drones to try and steal them, the ship becomes visible and the drones immediately spring into action. 2 drones are automatically recalled when your ship warps via d/c. if you happened to send them 200km out, then they probably won't make it back in time. but they would still try and get back before your ship aligns and warps. it makes no sense that the game has a \"self preservation\" function, that ignores your drones."
"info needs to be concentrated, coz its dispersed over too many different sections now."
"what's the problem ccp?"
"purpose: to encourage active gameplay, attempt to reduce lag, and improve combat for sovereignty throughout 0.0. develop a solution which does not overly change current mechanics to minimize testing and implementation times. problem: current 0.0 game mechanics require large fleets to achieve goals for invading forces. large fleets cause significant loads on client/server, rendering game-play difficult due to lag. logistics are required to maintain large pos networks to hold sovereignty in contested areas. small corporations/alliances have little to no ability to affect 0.0 sovereignty outside of joining larger alliances/power blocks thus increasing the potential for unplayable server conditions. proposal:1. investigate significant decreases of hp for pos, pos anchorables, and station services. purpose: to mitigate large groups of pilots shooting stationary objects for excessive times, excessive in this case being 20 minutes arbitrary advantage: aggressor. less hp requires less time to incapacitate, less time required to repair advantage: aggressor and defender. multiple pos/outpost installations could be engaged at the same time, reducing the number of concentrated pilots, possibly improving server conditions advantage: aggressor/defender. if all the station services are incapacitated, there is a 24 hour inactivity time for \"repair\". if all 5 are incapped more than once an additional 3 days of inanctivity time ensues before they can begin functioning up, up to 7 days. this would mean that outposts must be defended, 1 because the hp has been drastically reduced from 80mil to < than 1 mil each, and because there would be increased penalities for refusing to defend an outpost. 2. investigate increasing pos fuel storage purpose: decrease amount of logistic runs per tower advantage: defender. as with reducing the amount of time shooting stationary targets, if you were to increase the amount of fuel stored for poss, less time would be required to operate pos networks. the ramification is that these towers would be holding more resources and their importance would increase. again the goal is to increase and enhance combat, not shoot stationary objects or excessively inundate pilots to haul resources.3. move cynosural system jammer away from pos. required anchoring location must be greater than 1 au from any outpost or anchored pos. purpose: decrease major fights at pos grids where lag and poor server conditions account for any percentage of destroyed ships, balancing aggressor and defender capabilities. 4. only 3 large towers are required for sov. when anchored, a check box is clicked to notate whether the tower is anchored for sov. sov holder is notified when 3 contesting sov large towers are anchored and onlined. this allieviates useless pos spamming and requires a straight fight for the system sov. all offlined pos's will unanchor themselves if not onlined after 3 days. 1 full day of onlining/refueling resets the timers. holding space should be primarily about profiency in combat to prevent hostiles within your area and stewardship of your facilities. too long have ccp allowed massive hp buffers and ridiculous time/game mechanics to allow people to ballon space to where they would not normally be able to defend it with military prowess. closing remarks: these changes would allow small gangs to actively participate in 0.0 without overly skewing combat toward the aggressor. sov holders would be less burdened by logistical runs, but would be required to actively defend their pos/sov installations affecting large nap power blocs. these proposed changes would not significantly change the core game-play mechanics, potentially mitigating the possibility of bugs, and other unforeseen consequences."
"definite steps in the right direction here - particular with cyno jammers moving away from pos and reduced hit points on attackable objects. supported"
"the cynojammer suggestion in particular has my vote."
"1. supported - but only as long as pos warfare is tied to system sovereignty.2. also agreed3. definitely agreed"
"i think if structures had a hp reduction ppl would still bring a blob to take them outmore ships = more dps = faster to take down the target + faster to finnish the jobmore ships = more targets for the enemy to defend against + more friendlies to shoot at enemies"
"whatever solution there is for the sovereignty problems, it has nothing to do with more shooting/repping of structures.it'll not encourage fights any more than current status as people will still bring a blob.why? because they don't risk loosing ships then!invent something that makes people want to shoot each other in small groups instead.not supported!"
"so kerfira, where are you getting the idea that this is suggesting more shooting of structures? wouldn't reducing the hps of them just mean less shooting off structures?i'd be interested to hear what you think a good way to get small ship combat into the sov equation would be, but i don't think you're actually reading any of these proposals because your comments are consistently off the mark."
"good start"
"exactly tarminic. keep all the old rules with large towers, and the whole sov system intact. just tweak it to see if a moar dynamic battle is better for everyone, from small alliances to the mega-alliances. shift the emphasis away from time consuming shooting stationary target thus repping those targets, and endless fueling runs and moar time shooting, and strategic planning. if you give people the ability to affect assets all over an alliances sov space, that is doing something, if there are no station services, then you can't do anything sitting in station, which provides you more incentive to go out and fight.more gunners at towers mean more people are doing more things, with what we already have. nobody has to \"invent\" new unusual or useless mechanics to drive combat, the impetus for combat is to affect other people. i would envision a wide range of new buisness oppertunities for mercenaries as small gangs can go around affecting pos installations in 0.0 and in empire. of course people will still have the option to blob, nothing short of strict traffic controls will prevent that, but the catch here is that if moar can be done with less, who is really going to sit around and wait 2 hours for people to show up when they can go out and get stuff done themselves?"
"1 and 2 i can support, but 3 is going overboard. there are more conventional and technically feasible ways to nerf cynojammers than that which will be more balanced for both attacker and defender anyway."
"i can digest this one a bit easier.have no real input about #3. except maybe adding a bops role to possibly take it out."
"reading that wall of text was bad enough, so having not read any other posts, this idea is terrible. all this talk about not requiring numbers to do stuff so that small corps can do stuff in 0.0 is dumb. doing these things may not require many people, but you will lose to the person who brings 2 or 3 times as many assets with cap support.tl;dr blobbing is impossible to fix unless you limit the number of people in an area. someone else will always have more cannon fodder people."
"the war is not broken, it does not require fixing. the ways we wage the wars are not set in stone, the give and take is all in the creativity and tactical planning of the corporations and alliances engaging in them. these proposals to completely revamp 0.0 combat are un-needed. we're going backwards here.the gates idea is just wrong if anything else. if people want to own a gate they have the ability already, sit on it with a gang, done. if anything is to be discussed for revamping intergalactic warfare, it should be streamlining the system that is in place before going in a completely different direction. what you're talking about is like building a kit car for say an old muscle car, and then half way through when its almost ready to run, you decide you'd rather have an exotic sportscar kit, but instead of finishing what you had and then adding something else thats cool to the collection, you just start throwing crap from the exotic car, onto the muscle car. in the end you end up with something ugly that barely works if it does, when you could have had the most solid muscle on the block.layers is the name? okay... we have layers of functioning material thats got a few wrinkles. iron it out.small gang pvp being compared to capital large scale engagements... i'm not sure you're playing to much anymore, if you want to get in a gang with a bunch of rifters and go have a good time, you can. if you want to get into a badger with smartbombs for kicks, you can. if you want to have 100 rifters fight 100 merlins, this can be achieved as well. the layers you were yapping about are in place, only they're more accurately called roles, and each ship has one, and each object in the space our ships roam in has one too. frigates are designed for small gang operations, logistics harassment, and tackling, the player has more than enough option to stay in a frigate for their entire stay in eve and enjoy it. the roles of capital ships are to fight in large scale operations. look at concord on a gate, frigates, ewar, logistics, battleships, cruisers, battlecruisers, each ship has its role.for every player/pilot there is a goal, for every ship/game mechanic there is a role. focus on making the system in place shine, then see what accessories and remodles should be done. because there are a lot more complaints about minor stuff, then there is the entire system."
"since it seems this discussion is still going on, i'll reply. in large scale combat, it is true that most every ship can fulfill a role. but that's not what ccp asked that the csm address. ccp specifically called for a layered model of 0.0 sovereignty warfare that includes territorial objectives for small subcapital gangs, in addition to capital and fleet objectives. that is what the op provides.the assertions many of you are making about what this proposal entailed are flat out incorrect. nothing in the op hands 0.0 sovereignty over to \"small empire alliances\" or nonsense like that. it simply restructures how the existing sovereignty benefits are granted so that some remain governed by pos, some are governed by non-pos structures designed to be assaulted by large fleets, and some are governed by large numbers of distributed objectives in this case stargates designed to be conquered by many small groups acting in concert.i appreciate that some feel the current system works fine. but ccp didn't ask that question. they said they want to change it, and this has to be viewed in that context."
"all that needed to be done to \"revamp 0.0 sov\" was to lower hp across the board and increase fuel bay capacity, and possibly move cynojammers away from pos towers.lag is the death in all fleet fights. lag comes from large gangs. large gangs come from the necessity to shoot mindless objects for long periods of time. everything must be done to limit lag, and boredomif you reduce pos hp/anchorables/station services, there is less to take down, less time to rep it back up. more targets can be hit at the same time requiring moar attention paid to your home systems and valuable pos installations. moar time at home, means failure alliances won't be able to napfailtrain all over the place because they might be hit next. you increase the fuel bays, to reduce logistic runs, which are boring, but providing moar assets and isk into each tower.you move the cynojammer away from teh tower and it becomes a becon of contesting, this negates lag for being on the side of the defender as it is now with the pos getting free kills to desynched pilots. with this, no major changes to sov need to take place. 0.0 becomes a constant battle ground. all is good."
"please write up your proposal as an issue matrixcvd and i'll support it and add it to the agenda once its stood for 7 days. deadline for public discussion prior to august 17th meeting means you'd need your issue post up on the assembly hall by sunday 10th 16:00 hours at the latest."
"it seems to me that an alliance holding enough territory should be able to disallow any ships specified or generally out of their alliance, not possessing the right signatures/codes, from using stargates that are deep enough in their space or secured by some other means. the only ability to circumvent this would be through either hacking a gate, or by using covert jump bridges.or hell, you could simply introduce passcodes! yay for infiltration/spying ops!generally though, your original suggestion is excellent, and i am all for this."
"i read 1/3.....bad idea after bad idea. sounds like faction warfair on stargates....boring."
"done"
"support."
"no.... it becomes an even more constant shoot/repair-structure-ground....whatever solution there is for the sovereignty problems, it has nothing to do with more shooting/repping of structures. it'll not encourage fights any more than current status as people will still bring a blob.why? because they don't risk loosing ships then!invent something that makes people want to shoot each other in small groups instead."
"ok as far as i know this is somewhat dead unless jade and co. decide to circumvent everyone and force it upon ccp anyway.but if ccp and everyone else wants to create \"layers\", putting layers of crap on a issue to compound the problem makes no sense. when someone calls an op no one says \"oh we just need a few guys\". you get what you get and run with it and make it up as you go along. there are already small gang stuff going on anyway. enhance that. we have already been addressing the bops issue. put that in place with the layers stuff ccp want. bops in it self if a layer. incorporate that. attacking ones infrastructure is not hitting gates and the like. the true life blood is the pilots. small gangs are designed to disrupt day to day null sec life. you will do 100 times more damage killing a jump freighter or killing a few miners and ratters, than you will ever do taking down a pos or assaulting a gate.that is a layer. both tactical and rp. it already exists. this is contesting your targets military prowess and infrastructure. not shooting a structure. enhance what we have that works currently. fix or minimize the boring ****. and then build upon that. building a house on a pile of **** just makes a bigger pile of ****."
"i'm just pointing out what ccp asked for. there may be plenty of small gang stuff to do in 0.0, but they wanted small gang stuff that affected sovereignty. a lot of folks who had a problem with this didn't understand that context.as for the \"it's always better to blob\" argument, here's the element you're missing:more pilots is better, except when the additional pilots could be more useful elsewhere. that's how you break up the blob - you give them diminishing returns on their pilots beyond a certain point, and give them a more efficient way to use those additional pilots on another grid.in my proposal you need 10 pilots to capture a gate, but after 10 you don't capture the gate any faster. maybe you bring a few extras as backups, but once you get into the 25-30 pilot range, you have to start asking yourself if it's not better to run two gangs at the same time in order to capture twice as many gates in the same amount of time you have devoted to the op. that's one way to disincentivize blobbing, and it's a sound principle but one that many didn't seem to get."
"here is the part you are ignoring or not getting. players do not want to shoot structures. shooting structures suck. its boring. players do not even think about those only if they have to and then its pretty much..meh.and trying to enforce a set number of players to do anything is restricting game play. and to think that we can sit here and theory craft tactics for any one group to follow is silly. ccp should not dictate how tactics are played out. we as player set that standard. that is why we see so much failure amongst alliances because bob or someone else slams them with something they do not expect or using tactics on the field they came up with. that allows players to be creative. making someone do something by some set of number of players to contest an objective is pretty much 2 dimensional board game thinking.make the bops proposal with he ability to bring in enough ships and dps to to attack the cyno jammers. you have surprise, tactics and contesting sov.you don't have to have an over complicated micro managed 3 layer system. just keep it simple to allow the players to choose what they will and will not do. do not put more structure warfare in the game. make the current structures much more vulnerable requiring more player response to defend.and you still missed the point of what the real infrastructure of any alliance or crop is. it's the pilots. they are who you attack."
"i agree with that. but there's no more shooting at structures in this proposal than there currently is in game - how is your complaint relevant to this proposal?i don't think this is a valid argument at all. the nature of every module and mechanic in the game has an impact on tactics. nothing i've laid out locks a group into a particular set of tactics, in fact it provides the framework for a variety of methods. the choice to make a freighter an easy target if unescorted prompts players to use scouts and escort ships - is it valid to complain that this is shoe-horning players into a particular tactic? of course not. likewise with any other game mechanic currently in this game or any other - the basics are laid down and players adapt around them.i agree. but in territory warfare you also take over territory. this model gets more pilots into the field where they can attack and be attacked by one another, as opposed to just making single heavy excursions or incursions to construct or siege a pos. this adds a broad pilot presence across the held territory in addition to that, making held and contested territory more populous."
"by dictating the number of and the type of ships needed to take anyone objective is constrictive and unrealistic. this is dictating tactics. you are telling them you have 4 choices, pick one. ok this is whats going to happen, some naivete pilot believing that this is what they have to do, will form a gang just as you spelled out. now the response force to agrees said attacking team trying to take that gate is going to get swarmed. because they are going to cta and every body and their brother will show up boil into the system. the attacking team has been given the high hard one with out a reach around. the attacking team is going to say screw this, i am either going to show with a fleet next time or just go harass the ratters.you might get ohh maybe 3 or 4 days of teams actually following that ship requirement before you have blob wars on gates.i see what you are doing. you are creating a method to solve a problem. but it has not solved it just created more hurdles and drawn out the game play. you are trying to put your self in the place of alliance leaders as stating this is what \"i\" would do and this is what ccp wants. by putting layers on something that is boring pos warfare just means that it is 3 layers of boring."
"i don't think saying you need 10 ships of any size to effect a gate capture is any more restrictive than needing dreadnoughts to take down a pos or a battleship fleet to eliminate a cynojammer.if the attack can field enough ships to divide their forces, one group can capture gates while another distracts the defending blob, etc. then the defender will have to respond by distributing their forces better to counter the multiple small gangs the attacker is fielding. i could see an attacker counter-blobbing if they felt they could destroy a defending force outright, and gain increased freedom to continue contesting gates, but a savvy commander might choose to evade the defending blob in order to contest more gates if he is outnumbered. but the mechanics are there to give incentives to field multiple forces instead of a single blob."
"windjammer if you can't be respectful to people that disagree with you, don't expect any in return."
"hey, whatever you have to tell yourself.windjammer"
"posts 110, 118 and now 122. identical. you go, girl/man.windjammer"
"this was actually a pretty interesting thread until this pompous cockprat showed up with this \"goons ate my baby!\" nonsense he ctrl-vs into every thread he can. it's a shame this forum doesn't support discussion better. there were some interesting ideas here that merited some debate."
"you refused my offer hereand still claim it's not practical to tank a hulk\"you don't have enough experience or skill to figure it out on your own\" seems like a pretty straightforward conclusion."
"let's be clear, shall we? i refused the terms of the offer you made. if you can prove me wrong, then do so. please prove me wrong. right here on these forums in front of everyone. here's your big chance, so do it.i still say there is no practical way an active present and awake instead of afk solo miner can tank a hulk so that it will survive a competent solo suicide attack defined as a single aggressing ship which does not exclude the use of a second alt controled ship in the role of cov op and/or bumper in 0.7 or below. that's a little different than your twist on my words, \"it's not practical to tank a hulk\". see the difference there?it is impossible to prove something does not exist. see \"proving a negative\" your task on the other hand is simple. you claim something does exist and you say you have the means to prove it. so do it. seems pretty straightforward and simple.in the interest of fair play i'll even define what i mean by practical. a tank fit which does not do one or both of two things.1 fit a hulk with items that are absurdly expensive. to do so is an unreasonable hardship on a miner as it compells him/her to spend huge sums of isk to simply survive in high sec. also, it paints such an enormous \"kill me\" sign on his/her hull that the tank will fail to suicide attacks simply because those attacks will now come from multiple attackers instead of a solo attacker.2 fit a hulk in such a way as to cripple its primary purpose which is to gather ore in an efficient manner. if you're going to do that, you may as well use another type of ship.....say a battleship for mining. you won't be getting what a hulk is designed for anyway and a battleship tanks easier and better. of course, then you won't be mining ice either, but if you're mining ice in a hulk which has had its capacity for mining crippled, you're promoting afk mining and that's not active mining.so why should anyone listen to you if you won't prove something you say you can? why should anyone believe you have the competence you claim if you won't prove it as you so easily should be able to?windjammer"
"i've seen weirder things... and some people just forget to sign even if their posts say they almost completely agree"
"i agree this area needs some attention."
"you only hear about the nerfers whine about the existence of local, while you don't hear the people who like having local. i believe these people make up the \"silent majority\". i ain't talking about carebears wanting safety. i'm talking about the vast majority of pvp guys who don't want yet another grind/elongation before pvp to occur.pvp is already unconsensual anywhere.we already have to find the target by warping to stations, asteroid belts, moons, planets, probe missions sites.now some people want us to not even know if the target is system??? you know who these losters are? nano-freaks and carebears who are already used to grinding. they don't mind pressing on the scanner continually and being aligned and all that wussy crap.we, the ordinary decent criminals do not want a nerf on local. in fact we want it boosted. we want the list compressed so we don't have to scroll up and down as much remove the portrait icons, use the color to highlight the entire name.show you support! don't let the 0.0 farmers get their wish!"
"not signed. at allhow often do the people in high sec rely on local compared to the ones in 0.0 .. i can garantee that 0.0 uses it 100-1000 times more. well this has all changed with fw i suppose. but regardless. i think every pvper in this game will agree, this game would actually be fun again if there was no local. the element of suprise... not knowing... the sneaking past/through hostile territory... gawd this game would rule!"
"if you don't consider yourself a carebear saying that, then it's obvious you're lost already.i've pointedly not gotten with the nano***gotry because i like to keep my balls a bit when it comes to combat. i like strategy and tactics in equal amounts. and i enjoy surprising people aggressively. because i believe in the ability of interceptors and recon ships. i believe in the cloak. i believe that one shouldn't have to exploit this game to win, and that easy kills are unsatisfying, easy mining is unsatisfying, having an unreasonably easy time making loads of cash and influence at all is unsatisfying.local is broken. a communication channel that is used as a poor alternative for a detection device instead. it needs to be removed, both for game balancing and rp reasons!"
"why dont ppl see alternative solutions? introduce something else instead to chat with, which doesn't need to show whos in system unless you chose to?the problem is that a chat channel is used to see whos in a system.. and thats not its intended use.. i breaks with immersion too! its a chat channel not a scanning device!"
"this might actually be quite successful. it's a convenient system that allows people without credit cards to contribute to a worthy cause, vastly increasing the potential \"market\" for donors. furthermore, since this isn't real money we're dealing with in practical terms, at least people might just donate more than they would normally.one criticism i have of your idea: don't make it a monthly thing. only do the occasional one-off donation drive for a particular cause. for best results, hold some kind of event, like a mini tournament - \"incursus jousting\" 1v1 fights in incursus* to give an example - and the charity gets the proceeds of the event plus any supplementary donations from players. this should open the gates wide for corporate sponsorship, just like in the real world.this may be the first charity donation initiative brought about by in-game currency trading. *nb incursus is fourth declension so its plural is also incursus."
"/signed"
"would be nice."
"how could this possibly be a bad idea? it would allow people that don't have that much to give a way to give.fictional worlds having an direct impact on the real world. i love it.support. not that the csm or ccp will do anything with this. but, still."
"wow, cause likes most charities it's fake and used for money laundering?"
"i'd be all for it/+1"
"now this is creative thinking, unlike this nonsense."
"i'm sorry, but i don't understand what you mean? thanks, but you didn't select the 'support this topic' checkbox when you posted. so it does not officially count in regards to sending it to the csm. if you have a chance, you can just go back and edit the post to add it."
"i definitely support this idea"
"that is a very clever idea, and would be pretty amazing pr for eve."
"creative and simple. the mark of a brilliant idea.if you add in things like the alliance tournament, the possibilities to raise a good level of rl cash extremely credible."
"a sound idea that deserves the support of all. well done uiliam."
"fantastic idea, think of the positive publicity ccp.only thing i would say is who gets to choose the charity?"
"would love to see something like this implemented."
"i like the concept, but some care would be needed when working out the details of exactly how to implement - especially when it comes to picking charities to support.definately should be looked into though i think."
"sure, why not! gives us all a good answer to cihys: i'm donating it to charity!"
"one thing i think i missed and could be altered to make it more of a community donation and less of a ccp direct donation is for the card to be resold by ccp for money rather than it impacting their profits.but at the end of the day, the strict detail isn't that important, only that theres a way to convert isk into a charitable donation"
"\"i know what i hate, and i don't hate this.\"sure, +1, everyone wins. charity gets $$, ccp gets writeoff's, and players... well get to feel good about themselves or something i would imagine."
"this could be a very cool thing for ccp to do. and it could be used to support this:"
"yep good idea. i'll raise it at the next meeting. consider it on going on the agenda once the 7 day public discussion is up."
"my concern is that this might fry the gtc market, by creating a massive new demand with no new supply. prices will certainly spike. that said, i'm still in favour of this - a good idea, and good publicity besides. but be aware that you're going to dramatically change gtc prices if you do this. also, instead of picking one charity, ccp should set up a pile of them. a pile of dummy characters with names like \"ccp charity child's play\" specifically with 3+ word names if it's possible to do that, because players can't replicate those, who each check their wallets every downtime, and buy gtcs if they have the cash on hand to do so."
"i like it,i got 7 bill with nohting to buy :p"
"sir you are a genious! wait a second, wtf? for a moment there, i thought i had entered some other weird magical dimension. i think it might have been yours.you're really going to go with that, huh?/facepalm"
"like tards?!? wow this is honestly the stupidest idea ive heard in a good few weeks.first off they nerfed dictors! .. to the point where around 70-80% of the dedicated pilots stopped flying them!cheap? not really? i can tellin gyou right f_ing now my implants arent cheap either.. you expect me to constantly die while trying to tackle people for you? or is it you kept dying by dictor bubbles cause you guys couldnt think of a productive counter against dictors which nowadays with their speed nerf. is a nano thorax :s .. or you engaged in a drake blob.you have issues. dictor have received the shortest end of the stick next to arazus lately.go back to high sec if you don twant to deal with themyou fail.not supported.sorry, that thread actually made me angry cause of its stupidity"
"agreed. pilgrim should have the range bonusnot a drone bonus tho yesi can fly pilgrim:p"
"i don't care what people say. the pilgrim is, and should be, a sneak attacker meant to operate within 10 km range. as it is today, it has not only lost 200 armor hp recently, for no evident reason, and possesses unreasonably few slots compared to hacs, but it also features an ewar ability that people are very conflicted and hesitant toward using. it has not a single solo advantage except the cloak over its faster, more well-armored and superior-ranged sibling, the curse. and that cloak only allows it to sneak up on t1 noob pilots, miners or unlucky ratters, like a scavenger. because no sensible pilgrim pilot will ever engage hacs or battlecruisers or battleships up close in solo combat, even though these ships could arguably be called its main prey. making it a greatly frowned upon and despised ship. and in fleet combat, it lacks so much as an active role. furthermore, it has a pointed weakness against both smartbombs and missiles.whatever can be done to strengthen the pilgrim, which in my mind is preferably to give it more defense, especially against missiles, and more firepower, though preferably not from having to resort to heavy drones, should be done."
"welcome to the drone regions where the ratters produce more minerals than miners can ever mine about the gsc, must say.. i find it inventive but no option for 0.0 mining for the reasons i posted before tanking spawns"
"dude you have my support. though i did not mine now for years the risions exact what you have discribed.and to ppl who are think miner is not solo profesion:  you have no idea "
"you have one person supporting you... think about that."
"there is quite a bit of support in this area actually. so only one in this thread doesn't mean squat. mining could use some improvements, doesn't mean it should make more isk per hour, but it could use an overhaul.while i might not subscribe to exactly what the op wants, i do agree that mining is underdeveloped as a profession."
"so this is a small idea i have had bouncing around my head. right now the only real reason to chose an particular race is to get the jump on a few skills that races use and minmaxing your traits. why not give each race a bonus to use the ships of that race. it would give you an added incentive when choosing one race or another. some examples:want a great armor tanker? maybe if you chose amarr you get bonuses to your armor resists whenever flying amarr ships?want a flying scrap heap? maybe if you chose minmatar as your race you get a bonus to your missile / projectile skills to make those split weapon ships a bit mroe viable. this of course would only be in effect when flying minmatar ships of course.want a fleet of angry drones? maybe give gallente pilots added drones in flight when flying gallente styles ships. ala guardian vexor?want the massive force of missiles on your side? maybe give caldari bonuses to their missile systems? they are already fairly strong given they don't really miss. so possibly add to the shield tanking when in caldari ships? or the hybrid guns so more caldari use guns? of course only when in caldari ships.i think this would help with people who want to specialize. it would also make newer players feel a bit more useful when flying the ships they chose a race for. it would make minmaxing a bit less viable. it would also add a bit more realism for faction warfare.this idea was brought to you in part by the letter s.regards,stabby"
"s for sucks"
"so far... there is nothing \"biotech\" about eve. and even if there were, all the races are human.so the only thing you're choosing between amarr and gallente is your character's upbringing. they started out learning lasers or drones, because that's what the society focused on.but a japanese man won't drive a toyota better than an american, unless he knows how to drive better. and those same two individuals won't trade places when they switch from that toyota to a chevy.eve's item usage has always been about equality, based on training. a gallente spec ops starts with a lot of drone training... but that doesn't mean that a caldari miner couldn't still take those same skills and perform just as well.so sorry, no vote from me. ships don't work better just because of your blood or heritage."
"a majority of the csm doesn't support my horrible and transparent efforts to turn 0.0 into factional warfare so i can be a \"power\" im going to post in every thread about it like a big baby!"
"when there is a nano nerf in game to address i'll be happy to. for now ccp's asked for player input on what they have in testing. if you want to have an impact i'd recommend testing and providing feedback rather than blaming the csm for something that's not its place to address. ccp's given you the outlet for this angst. use it. *****ing about the csm instead of following the proper course will get you nowhere and leave only yourself to blame."
"that does not compute. there is no high or low votes, stop trolling goon, this is not sa."
"not a troll, i think there is definitely a level of prioritization that will occur regardless if it is specifically outlined in the csm guidelines. it has been mentioned numerous times by delegates.also i'm not a member of sa. figure that out before you make another assumption, then shut up."
"that is completely correct. ccp wants us to do a prioritization of all the issues. thus, there's the 2 factors to consider:should the issue be escalated?yes/nohow important is the issuelow/medium/medium-high/high"
"really, when did goons abolish membership of something awful as a mandatory requirement for joining goonfleet?as for bringing personal agendas to the table i'd have a lot more respect for any csm member if they brought up a cause they've championed for a long time prior, not some spur of the moment brainfart they concocted during their last bio break."
"since you could be sponsored. entrapment is way more fun than trolling. look how dumb you look."
"that's exactly what i thought when i read the title"
"sounds cool."
"thanks for the support guys"
"i support this idea, but there is other aspects of the ccp idea, that need to be considered... like the boost to assault frigs viability. i been on test server trying out the new assault frig stats. and now, assault frigs, with scram and ab are actually viable in combat. they are able to disable targets mwd with a scram and orbit them fast enough to reduced incoming dps even while webbed. i actually want to spend the money on and assault frig now, cause it wont die as soon as it is webbed. understand? with your idea in place and some of the ccps ideas in place it will make a good combination. also, boats that are designed to use any close range gunnery and mwd, should have a resistance to the mwd disabling scram, not sure how exactly, but i think that nerfing blaster ships is a huge hit to gallente race, so not sure how ccp thinks that they are evening things out. in my opinion they should leave base stats of webifier alone and give certain ships bonus to web resistance, as well as slow broken speed ships down. no reason to have a battleship going over 3.5km/s with hgsnake, and deadspace mwd. bumping capital ships with a battleship is rediculous considering the force of the impact would most like destroy both ships, in reality. i dont know if any of this makes sense, i hope so! good luck with this idea."
"yea assault ships pwn now : i just ****d a zealot in my jag using that tactic on test server. i agree that other aspects of ccps idea need to be added too. personally i would give afs a web resistance, id give the pilgrim the same range as the curse, and id increase the lachesis and arazus damp bonus from 5% to 10%.and also, with this equation these stupid speed battleships arent useable, a mach can only do around 2.5kms tops now."
"now you're talking, at last.still, i think that more of a general speed reduction for missiles too, but not as much and introducing some alternatives for ecm to affect missiles would be good. it's more and less drastic measures all together that will balance the game out, instead of tip the scales forth and back and forth and back...also, machariel going at 2.5 km/s is still wtfbbq!!?!"
"na i doubt anybody would fly one that went that slow lol, too easy to catch and not exactly cheap :"
"well, maybe, but only for as long as everyone flies drakes and sacrileges. f*ck that.combat-wise though, it's still way too dramatic a speed. i, personally, want to see tactics. that does not include everyone with an mwd being able to fly around and be everywhere in a fleet battle, or mess things up in a 1v1, so damn easily. you should have to think and plan."
"it was always unclear to me why jukebox in eve doesn't support playing music tracks from user's own computer. it shouldn't be that hard to implement it a simple \"add track\" and \"remove track\" buttons should be enough and some basic changes to the game client. the only problem could be if ccp used some file type unkonown to the rest of the world to record their tracks. in that case, the jukebox change would require a slight change in the source code to support some of the most used file types. mp3 would be great, but i think it's not entirely free for commercial use. there's also the oggvorbis .ogg format which is a good open-source solution with equal or even better quality than mp3 and there are many converters to and from .ogg format. maybe there are other things that does not allow this to be implemented that easily, but on the other hand if it is simple, why not implement it?"
"we know. that's why it's awesome."
"hel, ya i support this.the base bonus to pitch is the defining factor for the naglfar.i would go so far as to suggest that they leave the current bonus and simply change the base attributes of the minmatar carriers so that they share this defining distinction with their dread."
"this huge boner has my attention."
"yes"
"well, you wanted concrete - i'll give you concrete. i will start from the general and go down to the specific, category by category.appearance:as it is now, since the implementation of the new engine eve's colours have had a change for the less dark. the rust green dominix has become flourecent blue, the thanatos has turned from dark and green to blue and greenish, etc. - in general the ships have very polished surfaces particularly amarr and have an almost \"plastic toy\" sense to them. compare the clean surfaces of the premium content to the classic in regards to minmatar ships for instance. the designs that have developed over the years seem to be more and more \"average sci-fi\" than typical eve. look at your average concept art from eve over the years, look at the colours the dead lands, the almost \"postapocalyptic\" feel to it. the cyberpunk-esque inspirations and compare it to what we have today, a polygonal marvel i'm sure, but not enough grit and too much \"look at this plastic toy!\"combat:it seems that war has little consequence when ships are easy replenished and battleships are as commonplace as cruisers were three years ago. people talk a lot of game-balance here and there, and less about economics. managing a vast empire should be very costly, and having everyone flying around in battleships, let alone dreadnoughts and carriers seems odd. i think, personally that it's time to remove all insurance payouts on battleships and above. losing your whole fleet in combat should sting a bit more, especially if you brought capitals. same thing in regard for pve, what's the challenge of mission content if everything is predictible? if you know exactly what to fit your ship with, then what's the point? you might as well give people continuous ticking isk, because adapting to these predictible missions is nowhere near full of consequences. personally i think there should be more of a significant impact, you accept a mission your agent counts on you to complete the task without always being able to provide accurate intel how many movies have we seen where intel was shot to hell. there should be more risk to the missions, but even more so there should be complete random components in a mission. warping in a passive drake to tank an entire level 4 mission while grinding away the rats is a pointless task and makes for dull unchallenging pve. true, the rewards are mostly pitiful - but i think there needs to be less predictability in these situations.i also think there needs to be more ways beyond the social to disrupt corporations that don't own pos in empire. war-decs are very one-sided ways of hurting corporations. i wish to see more mechanisms in the game where you can target a corporation and use your influence and contacts to force them into bankrupcy. i think there should be more bills, more costs, and also more profits involved with player corporations. more reward to leading a corporation, giving it more life. but also more ways of disrupting it. bribing agencies and sabotaging stocks. naturally everything has consequences, sabotaging it for someone has security hits, etc.docking radiuses gonei think that undocking a ship from a station should be like jumping through an unscouted gate. once you're finally in control and stations controls release you you are far away from the station and can either warp off or turn your ship and request re-dock. no more \"hi i'm an invulnerable capital ship sitting on an undock\". you want that advantage, you're going to have to take risks too. same goes for haulers, lone pvp:ers, etc.new means of high-sec dominanceclearly the police shouldn't be incorruptible. but there should be more ways of telling the police to look the other way than just simple war declarations with 24 hour timers. for instance, being able to bribe your way to do something similar to that movie. make a gate clear of police for a period of time naturally if it's well populated areas it's going"
"appearance - this is personal preference, maybe switch back to classic for your old skins but this is less of an issue.removing insurance - i wouldn't mind this so much personally. i wonder how much money the scc loses each month...pve - takes a lot of content, and some players like the grind. disrupt them by warping in their mission, and it wouldn't be bad if the rewards decreased compared to more hostile isk-making mechanicscorporations - in a free market economy, with perfect competition in most basic items at trade hubs, it is impossible to really destroy any corp through bribery or stock manipulation, especially if they only manufacture and don't sell their stock. most of this can be done but requires infiltration.docking games - tough to solve, and being able to look outside station is more realistic. there really isn't a mechanic that can fix this considering the strict boundary between \"combat outside/no combat inside\" and the ability to sit on that boundary.hi-sec dominance - disagree here actually, concord should be completely incorruptible for rp reasons, otherwise the major factions would have tried to gain influence. they have to be completely neutral otherwise major player alliances would be able to have their own police squad. imo, any change to this destroys the entire concept of high sec.can't support because too broad. nullsec is the 'dark place', but empire must at this point be safer for new players. although i wouldn't be opposed to a new server with a completely 0.0 galaxy. god that'd be amazing."
"do you honestly see the csm wasting their time with this? much less agreeing on this?"
"appearance - personal preference, yes. stations look fine as is, but when it comes to ships we want to be able to customize appearances somewhat. i know that i at least will be flying something looking like a rust hulk propelled by nuclear fire...removing insurance - not really, but lessening it is a good idea, to drive on the economy, hopefully scale down the larger, older alliances in comparison to the younger corps because they lose more money, and regulate high-sec ganking. not that i'm entirely against the latter. it's just that there are reasons for high-sec space, and you shouldn't be able to f*ck someone over without a reason and that easily without paying for it. pve - i haven't ever liked anything but high-level grind myself, and that only occasionally to try and get angel missions so that i can hold on to them and salvage trit bars for starting capital. the grind has its place, but riskier stuff should be more profitable. so we need to tone down mission money but not lp, better mining options, and definitely better pvp policing and ransom options.corporations - it seems that the only way to really take corps out of the game is to either tire them out, let them tire themselves out i mourn mc, or infiltrate and ruin them istvaan shogaatsu, you bastard! you admirable, marvelous prick!. should this really be the case?docking games - 'station windows' are a necessity and come off as rather evident and natural. even if this mechanic ought to be looked over, of course. and it should be even harder once you take ambulation into account...hi-sec dominance - it irritates me to say this, but concord does need to be largely or completely incorruptible for the purpose of roleplay, and even more for the sake of the economy. there are war declarations and other mechanics to get to people in hi-sec. and hi-sec exists for a reason. faction police forces is another cool suggestion though - something with more organization and intelligence than the regular pilot force, for territorial defense purposes. this ties into making eve darker and colder; having to organize things because of more gate routes, less gatecamping potential, and hopefully the removal of local channel.local channel - boot this. ships should have a maximum detection range and chance depending on their sensor strength, with the ability to warn their pilots of incoming ships, for realism and balancing reasons. but you certainly shouldn't have to reveal yourself when simply entering a system, unless you announce yourself in local. even non-hostile t1 ships should be able to slip through a system without some belting pilot noticing, even without intending it."
"yes i do."
"you mean instead of actively voting to diminish the cold and dark ambience by implementing avatars playing musical instruments? yeah you're probably right, troll."
"re: pvecurrent structure and mechanic of missions is such that if you made missions have random rat types, damage types, etc. you would make using a cs or hac obligatory for l3s and a couple of bses for l4. with the mechanic of pve being, use mission specific hardeners, pray your tank holds as you are not always achura, and not always in a drake . making damages and rats random would increase mission difficulty very very much, and if missions remained current, fly to 50 immensely stupid rats, kill them all, go back to agent, you would just increase difficulty without making them truly 1% more interesting.re: undock.only, only and only if you get to see who's on the grid outside station. windows, access to your ships scanners, station bulitens, but you would only be creating free isk for pirates if you removed current undock mechanics and not gave any new way of seeing is anyone waiting in ambush.jumping trough a stargate into a different solar system is a bit different that undocking from a spacestation."
"well i'm not amarr, but i like that they shine in gold. it works. with gallente i like most of the tristan\" color scheme, but still i feel that their ships really don't match the design of gallente in the long run. tristan has nothing in common with for example hyperion and the motherships look odd. they look like completely different races. vexor looks like a sheephead and single mass. minnies look similar to style, but just have different kinds of ships. caldaris also have somethat same design, but it's sometimes a bit faulty...but they are ugly...."
"notice how the level headed delegates stated that they had no reason to say no to music in ambulation.as apposed to these insane, game breaking ideas."
"tzujeih, you really are the worst poster, get out.although i may not agree with all the specific ideas in the op's second post, a commitment to keep the ambience and ethos dark and dirty is by no means \"game breaking\"."
"meh...sounds like another \"wahh! i want more newbs to gank!\" troll post to me...the game should be fun to play. not like being gang ****d in a back alley.no support. *thumbs down*"
"obviously something like this need to be worked through, and i'm not the person to do it. however, the bottom line is that the hardcore aspect of eve is on the verge of being compromised and i believe this needs to be addressed."
"and i think you're being a hypocrite for thinking only in 1v1 and small gang warfare and pretending you're not being self-convenient yourself. stuff that works in 1v1/smallgangs might not work in 30v30 fleet fights, and as it stands right now, factional warfare is mostly fleet fights.and if a scorpionor any other long range missile boat is lobbing cruise missiles at you, you won't have the time to warp out before the first volley hits.the module is situational, i know, but so is every other electronic and ewar module, but by giving other roles to ewar through the use of scripts, you end up generalizing them more."
"i don't see the points you're trying to make anymore at all. not everyone is into factional warfare, and as far as i can tell this alternate use of ecms doesn't break anything, but simply adds some more gameplay elements.are you trying to argue in favor of the missile boats or the missile defenses?and this is not about generalizing ewar. it's about implementing something that exists in real life, helps with the nano issue both on the nerf and non-nerf sides, and diversifies the game by making ewar more useful without actually making it more powerful, and adding more of a fleet role to eas and recons."
"is it topic about upcoming nano nerf or \"lets make nerf missels again\"?seems more as second one to me."
"that you only seem to be thinking of/be in favor of gangs of more than 5 ships? we don't need more thinking like that than we already do, with the huge alliances at present.well, then we should be on the same page. 'cept you seem to be taking this pretty aggressively. thing is though, that missiles will be turning fearsome with the patch, and have too few and ineffective counters, when they have no cap cost and no chance of 'actually' missing.yes? what are you trying to prove? as i've already said, you'd have to specialize in order to defend against missiles. stop ignoring me and start thinking, damnit.or are you saying that for example all interceptors are the same because they are all fast, low on firepower, and have bonuses to webs and scrams? that force recons generalize and are all the same because they're supposed to make points for covert cynos jumps? that they are all the same because they all have a cloak? 'cause that's how far you seem to go with this 'generalization' talk.come on. your missiles would still be effective, 'cause anyone in their right sense of mind with a regular cruiser wouldn't bother mounting a system like this because it'd be too weak. because it would be better for them to rely only on armor, shields or speed. only a scant few cruisers, eas and recon ships would even be able to specialize themselves at defending against missiles, and even then at the cost of directly targeting/disabling/taking out specific/single ships.but then again, why am i even arguing with you at this point? judging from your comments and suggestions, not to mention your race, it's more likely than not that you're just a bit conscious of and p*ssy about your up-and-coming ham-drake losing its ability to take out any and all ships, and thus you figure that suggesting a module that only takes away a fraction of the power of your missiles, while having to be mounted in a highslot and cutting the opposition's potential firepower, is the way to go. great.it's about nerfing nanos correctly, cutting out the mwd cancer, and keeping missiles effective but not 'teh <U+FFFD>ber' once the speed nerf goes through. since i see a lot of people training for drakes/ravens in the future..."
"1. i don't use drakes.2. i don't fly anything bigger than a cruiser. the only times i did were when i was in fw.3. using modules is a sacrifice, if you want to defend against something you make a compromise of something else."
"do you want me to put it in moronspeak? alright. if you want the missiles not to hit you, you would have to stop being able to jam, scram or disrupt other things. if you put these 'scripts' in, you can't change them while flying. you will have to dock and change your loadout, which means that using these things would give you penalties. comprende? f<U+FFFD>rst<U+FFFD>r du? verstehen sie?!"
"then wouldn't it be better to make a new module instead of confusing everyone with your magic scripts that don't work like scripts or some such?i understand my comprehension skills are not perfect, but maybe you should think your idea through so they make sense to someone else but yourself."
"right now, if you want to buy a shuttle you have to plough through the market screen interface to find a seller at your station or work your way through the browse section. if you're pinching pennies you'll probably want to compare prices of other races' shuttles though you need to be really poor to warrant that.i suggest we get rid of all that with some kind of \"buy shuttle\" button which would appear in the station ui. it'll automatically peruse the market orders for the things and find the cheapest available at the station - or tell you if there aren't any available. ideally, it'll compare all four races to find the best price. in practice, i it could work similarly to the \"buy this type\" function when you right-click a sellable object.nb. for simplicity's sake, shuttles would still be traded normally via the market; this is intended merely as a shortcut."
"oh god yes."
"yes please."
"how about we just merge the four shuttle types into one? they're all identical anyways. failing that, i'll reply with my standard response to a narrow ui request - yes, it should be an option."
"umm, what's wrong with...1 set market filter for station2 search by keyword \"shuttle\"3 profit... i mean purchase!or even...1 search by keyword \"shuttle\"2 sort columns by jump distance.3 purchase."
"stop the contamination"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"well, i tried. at least i got a few people who feel the same way as me in the \"against\" vote poll thread.as to you others, i can honestly say that i am happy for you. seriously.you are obviously pleased by the level of representation you are getting from the csm.i, on the other hand, feel that the csm is completely without purpose. at least, as long as there are enough reps on it that can tie up the vote and do nothing about hounding the devs on behalf of their constituents with the most important subject to come along since their inception.i guess the old saying is right: \"if you want something not to get done, give it to a committee.\"to the reps that voted to move forward with this, you have my deepest thanks, and my pity. it will not be a barrel of laughs dealing with the \"lazy slackers\" you have on your hands for the rest of your term.cheers all./me goes back to yelling directly at the devs like i always have."
"i disagree with the csm's position that they were not in a position to work with ccp on this issue, or words to that effect. the premise that they should wait until the issue hits tq was just laughable at best.there is a role for the csm here, though i do agree that within a few days of the changes hitting sisi was too early and would only lead to knee jerk over reactions and claims of \"the sky falling in\".i would move that the role of the csm here is to digest, distil and present from the players perspective, the balanced views in an intelligent and concise way to ccp. 1000's of posts venting bile and whine is not conducive to helping the development process so the csms help is needed to extract the few gems from amongst the drivel  which raises another point about players. do they really think theyre going to get their way if they flood the forums with dross thatll turn anyone off reading within a few posts?"
"unfortunately, the csm members has largely shown themselves incapable of considering the best interests of the game. they, as everyone else on these forums, generally argue purely from what is best for themselves, not what is good for the game.as such, the csm has essentially failed completely! the csm members do not represent the playerbase no matter how much they claim to, but are simply trying to advance their own personal agendas under the guise of 'representing their voters'.while there may be some players who're capable of providing balanced input for the good of the game, they're not the ones wanting election for the csm, nor would they get elected as their points of view would have to include unpopular nerfs.imho, if ccp wants a capable csm, they should just flat-out appoint players who've shown themselves to be level-headed and capable of rising above their own interests, and who play the game in different ways. the 'election' bs is the surest way of not getting the right people on the csm as has been proven...!"
"well i've added the speed nerf issue to the agenda again for the august 17th meeting and urged all the csm delegates to make the effort to get onto sisi for the two intervening weeks so we can hopefully have a more useful discussion at the next meeting. fingers crossed we get something more useful from the next one.for the record: jade, omber zombie, ben derider, ank voted for a statement on the nano nerf last meeting. bane glorious, darius johnson, inanna and tusko hopkins voted against. if you feel that any of the csm delegates who would ordinarily be representing your interests on this issue have made a mistake then i'd advise you to evemail, convo, or otherwise engage them in discussion and let them know what you think."
"well tbh, everyone is biased. biased people stood for the elections, biased people voted for them, biased people want biased results. the notion of what is \"good for the game\" is a bit of a difficult thing to pin down and based entirely on perspective. lets face it - the speed nerf is great for some players: its superb for gate-campers that want to catch prey easier. its great for 0.0 territorial alliances that want to secure their space easier. its excellent for missile boat pilots and pulse apoc aces. anyone that got annoyed that people used to be able to disengage from combat will love this patch.is terrible for others. its a nightmare for small unit roving pvp. it sucks for interceptors, its rubbish for small ship experts and pretty poor all round for anyone that used to enjoy poking blobs in the eye and living to tell the tale.so lets not underestimate the difficulty of defining a \"good for the game\" middle ground on this issue. not sure anybody is entirely unbiased on the issue really. we never did represent \"the whole player base\". individual csm represent the parts of the player base that elected them. the idea is that the nine voting together then create a rough representation for the whole that is generally never going to please everyone. on the current csm using the speed issue as an example you've got some big alliance players, some small alliance players, some industrialists, some roleplayers all representing different interest groups. i'm not convinced there are any actual players that could provide balanced input. i think everyone can only provide personal opinions and insight into eve from their own perspective. appointed council of special cronies is going down the road that led to the scandals that triggered the initial concept of the csm of course. if these guys are non-elected just who chooses them? what influence do they and their friends have? are they going to fnd out about balancing decisions before other players? can they wield power behind the scenes? are they going to be corrupt? etc.csm was an attempt to put player oversight into the democratic arena and what we have at the moment is messy and imperfect and there are some serious problems with the csm/ccp interactivity and general implementation of the concept sure. but tell you what, its 1000x better than an unelected clique of \"special players\" making decisions in the interests of themselves and their mates without any kind of public accountability or feedback."
"here's a difficulty. many players are able to do the math right away, and only need to play on sisi to have their suspicions confirmed. ccp however, seem to need hardcore evidence. and many who play and are not half as technically experienced as they would like to think and a quarter as skilled as they make themselves out to be, will thus be rather hesitant to try and speak up, for fear that they will need incontestable evidence, logs, videos or calculations, to even be taken seriously.the forum, while supposed to exist for the purpose of 'sampling' the community, is most likely to contain more of the less technical people, because they are posting here and not in game on the testing servers, desperately trying to work out a way to make their ships effective again or trying to find the little cracks and slips in the game design. and, a forum like this of course also has the disadvantage of being manipulable by people posting with their alts. not to mention that it seems that the csm members hardly take all that is being said here seriously, because of the overwhelming amount of whine/trolling.what happened to reasoning, reasonable changes, taking suggestions, skepticism, objectivity, flexibility and being able to meet half-way and work things out?i swear, if more people had less masks to hide behind, and felt that they could be held accountable for what they said..."
"i'm agreeing with the op. it is pretty disappointing. i'm more disappointed in ccp for these ill-thought out changes though."
"i simply disagree ccp choosing a group of players they think would provide valuable input to game balance etc. is much more likely to get them some valuable input than the current election ego-trip.they probably even shouldn't make it public who they are..... alternately, they could hire a couple of people to analyse what is going on in the forum and make recommendations from that.its never a good idea to put inmates in charge of the prison....."
"support votes or not, its clear that ccp is going to do something about speed tanks. sorry to say, you can vote until your fingers bleed, 3 votes, for all 10 of your carebear accounts and its not going to matter. speed will be re-balanced.as for the csm, it seems they still have their own personal agendas in mind. i can't speak for all of them, but every person on that panel should be wise enough to say... \"speed is un-balanced\"."
"proposal: part 1: defender missiles should be removed from the game. they don't work. additionally, using the missile mechanic means each time a defender launches, its another object for the game to track.part 2: a new module, called a point defense array is added. it is a turret based system, but can be used in any high-slot. it automatically targets incoming missiles and shoots once every 4 seconds. it has a 20k optimal, and skills will not increase its rate of fire or damage. it does not use tracking as current turrets. it always hits incoming missiles for the same damage an existing defender missile does.why do it? having a module autofire at incoming missiles would be a viable counter, and could possibly be a useful utility module in some fits speed?. not using tracking or the existing missile mechanics will reduce the impact on the server. it fires, missile disappears or takes damage if a torp/citadel. this mechanic also allows future expansion into ships that can protect an entire squad from missiles."
"but it also encourages blobbing, since two times more damage fired on you will result in far more than 2 times more damage received. imo better change them more into npc defender system, just a fixed chance of taking down an incoming missile, with a max of one or two defender systems fitted to a ship. make it a new module instead of using normal missile launchers."
"or... make the defenders more useful, and perhaps also add some other tools as well?i'd made a suggestion on f&i a while back, during the \"rant of the week: missiles\", which amounted to...why would all the other races believe the best way to counter a missile, is to throw another missile at it?when each race has obviously developed their own technology for combat."
"part 1 i couldn't agree more with. but, part 2 shoots the whole thing down.no skills factored in? no ship bonuses? this is backwards. it would only make engineered noob ships and gangs able to gank battleships and battlecruisers even easier. and then you'd have to <U+FFFD>ber up the missiles again...point is, the ships that can already tank or outrun the missile damage, and have plenty of highslots to spare, shouldn't get more bonuses. they're strong enough as it is. instead, make it so that you can fit a script/module to ecms in your loadout to have the ecm work to counter missiles instead of its primary function. you'll give the ships that are vulnerable against missiles as is - eas, some frigates/cruisers and recons - a viable alternative to shoot them down, and a new fleet role. but, of course, this comes at the cost of disabling them from ewaring specific ships and turning their vulnerability to turrets instead, if they choose this option."
"i'd say there's a single skill that amounts to \"what module you can fit\". and either that same skill, or another that amounts to \"fine tuning\".then the defense systems are still automated, and you don't have to actually activate them when a missile is fired. the modules have a base score for tracking and damage. depending on the size, meta, and tech... you could get better performance. and perhaps adding the \"fine tuning\" would get a little more out of them."
"i don't understand why we can't have better ratting and mission running out in 0.0 space. specifically the south, i don't know how it is in the north. but it gets frustrating when i fly through 7 - 10 systems and run into nothing but frigate/cruiser spawns with the occasional rare 500k - 800k battleship spawn. i understand that 0.0 should be harsh and i accept that. i even see it as a benefit. but there should be rewards to the individual player who wants to live out here and make the isk needed to afford the ships needed to live out here. you can still make 0.0 challenging but rewarding and fun. the challenge is already there, but the rewards and fun are solely missing. and lets not even get started on pvp, thats for an entirely different topic. this is about pve in 0.0. i don't understand why empire pubbies should be rewarded for playing it safe while 0.0 players get basically backhanded constantly. in the next content patch, empire is getting 150+ new faction warfare missions and a huge buff to the rewards to level 4 and 5 agent missions. any up coming changes to 0.0 period? not that i've seen. i don't know if ccp wants players to pve in empire or not, if they do its the wrong course to take. you can't possible expect everyone to come upto empire to make their isk. thats what is going to happen though in the content patch that buffs mission running in empire. it is basically going to make it more profitable to run missions there. my suggestion is to first buff the rat spawns. the majority of spawns i come across should be 1 million isk plus, triple spawn battleships atleast. plain and simple. my biggest challenge within 3 hours of ratting should not be a bs spawn that i can take on as a one month old newbie in a drake. the second suggestion is to add more agent missions. to player owned space. yes you heard right, to player owned space. there are a lot of ways you can go about doing this and keep it balanced. the best solution i can think of is to just add various level 1 - 5 agents throughout 0.0 space. the trick will be balancing delivery missions. what happens when you have to deliver something to a station that is under an alliance/corp control and you cant dock at that station? the game shouldn't just say \"well you are **** out of luck mr.!\" you could do in-space agents for missions like this i suppose. or just make all of the agents give kill missions.seriously ccp throw us a bone here. i know you guys have expressed your disappointment in the player population not coming over to 0.0. in your last report on what the players are doing with their time, you guys mentioned only something like 17% of total players live in 0.0 space and make it their main gameplay choice. you know why that is? its because it sucks out here. buff it up a little and make it more enjoyable. stop buffing empire up and making isk easier to make out there. you are just going to make the problem of overpopulation worst. help spread the population out by giving more incentives to live out here and show players that its worth the risks and throw a bone to the true hardcore players who choose to live out here and won't put up with the pubbie carebear environment that is empire."
"so you want the economical growth-rate to increase?i can't support that."
"a ratter in null can make more than a ratter in empire, but cannot come close to a mission runner in empire. that's the problem. better rats meaning more frequent high quality rats are great for solving this.player owned space can have agents. make beacon sites with in-space agents that represent the inhabitants of the system and it's planets. screw courier missions if they can't work, but they probably can and don't need to involve stations.i like how in fw you could accept a mission and a complex is spawned right away somewhere in low sec. those kind of missions would be great, especially l4 and l5s. might be interesting if you had to go find the plex - at least you know there is one close by and you can finally make some isk.skip to here above is mostly repeated crapif your only concern is overall growth rate following a buff i'm guess you think it's high already but i may be wrong the same effect can be achieved by nerfing empire missions accordingly or increasing some cost somewhere. no matter what, there is still the problem that it's way more difficult to make money out here."
"i believe 0.0 income needs to be looked besides owning poses or finding that \"perfect\" system"
"i would disagree on increasing rat bounties more farmers. yet, missions same as empire rewards but no lp store at player outposts farmers can't touch because they can't dock is very promising."
"it could easily compensated for by removing low-risk high-income opportunities from highsec ie the l4 q20 agents which are farmed 23/7 by dozens of ravens. redistribution, not inflation. i'd like to see agents available in player owned space, not by itself but as one part of a package of changes to the 0.0 sovereignty system."
"well.. i believe i made a topic in the idea's forum some time ago. my idea was to introduce missions in 0.0 like in high-sec. it does not generate more income but it increase the choices players have on how to make isk. i think a nice ammount of high-sec people would come to 0.0 if they would introduce missions in 0.0 something ccp tries to do hence fw."
"npc 0.0 is always more profitable than non-npc 0.0. i read on these forums that the more people ratting in a region, the worse the rats get, which makes sense since you mention you are hitting mostly frig/cruiser spawns etc.0.0 ratting is extreamly safe and its almost impossible to kill a cloaking ratter who fits a wcs and knows what he is doing.currently the problem is 0.0 ratting is more safer than empire lowsec missions, and if anything, 0.0 ratting needs to get more dangerous."
"more dangerous, but more profitable as well imo. but i think it would require a serious revamp of a lot of stuff. if i had to describe an ideal version of 0.0, it would contain many more exploration sites of various types and sizes, but no asteroid belts where rats spawn wtf are rats doing patrolling asteroid belts? why would they bother? rats at gates, i can understand, but at belts?at the same time, a complete revamp of the scanning system, with much more information available from scanners longer range, iff, permanently on, with signals to indicate new contacts on scanner etc and a removal of local. and of course asteroid quality and ratspawns should not be dependent on truesec in such a revamp. it makes it too easy to pinpoint/farm stuff.then you can tweak exploration sites to be more profitable in terms of bounties etc to make it attractive to run with say 4-6 man gangs."
"lies froms someone who gets his revenu from moon minerals and not rats and wants to put other alliances in a disadvantage, lol bob, never change cheaters"
"what? your main's ceo keeps all moon mins for himself insted of investing it in buiding up a kick ass corp? moon minerals is a cheat now?"
"ratting i easily made 30-35mil/hour in the drones region as an example so whats the issue...?mining in 0.0 can be extremely profitable with gang bonuses etc. it's balanced and imo, it's enough to drag people from empire too 0.0"
"some 0.0 space is better than others but tbh you should be able to make 10 mil an hour in 0.0 np. to do this is a hell of a lot easier than a lvl 4 also. add to this the decent money to be found in exploration even by using your on board scanner and i'm missing the point.i would suggest the best thing to do is to allow player built stations to have agents. how this would be implemented i have know idea but i think it would be for the good."
"dont boost 0.0, just nerf empire missions"
"10 mil is more for what a newbie pilot makes. i personally can roll in about about 40 - 50 million isk an hour ratting if the conditions are right and i stumble upon the correct system. this happens maybe once a week if even that though. it also doesn't help that i don't have a lot of time to play, which i can't blame on the game, but my weekends are pretty free and thats when eve is the most populated, making it even harder to find a good system. this whole thing really made me research and look into how rat spawns work and i'm still confused about a few details here and there.the most important thing out of all of this is to provide more options that make the game more fun. lets see a raise of hands from those that find ratting and mining fun? i imagine theres not gonna be to many of you, especially in the mining category. i find ratting to an extent fun but i sure as hell would like something different to do with my time, to mix things up a bit.the general opinion is that mining makes players want to shoot themselves in the head. even if they do it with a group. theres no point in adding something new to the game if it isn't enjoyable. look at faction warfare as an example of something ccp clearly did right because a good majority of players doing it actually enjoy it. i think the thing is stupid personally, but i'm not gonna argue with the numbers."
"if you let missions follow the same rules of risk/reward and primarily introduce some sort of competition for them, you wont need to increase 0.0 rewards. but with the hordes of whining mission runners its unlikely to happen. so i'll support a increase in low sec and 0.0 rewards."
"i personally believe that the \"danger factor\" of rats should increase by ten-fold for every .1 in security you drop.the highest intensity being 0.0, requiring 10 battleships and 2 logistics to do."
"that seems a bit extreme, but i would not mind grouped ratting at all. thats what i had originally thought 0.0 would be like when i was just a mindless newbie and didn't know better."
"you can drastically increase the isk per hour you gain from ratting by simply chaining the spawns.1. find a system with the lowest true security rating available to you using the ombey maps. the lower it is the better spawns you can reach.2. go to a belt2a. if only frigate / cruiser trash present destroy the whole spawn.2b. if only low grade battleships  500k to 1 million bounties  present destroy the whole spawn.2c. if good battleship rats present  dual 1.25 million and above  only kill the big ships.3. go to step 2.you see, all spawns go through a cycle, from only frigates and cruisers up to triple battleships  we're talking triple 3 million isk ones here  if you live in a good deep nullsec region. the spawns pass all steps  sometimes skipping a few is usual  and once you destroy the highest step it degrades back to frigates and cruisers, restarting the cycle.the whole point behing chaining is keeping the higher \"steps\" alive by only killing the battleship rats for isk. the whole spawn returns after 10 minutes or so, enabling you to farm cash from it until downtime. do this in a system with over 10 belts and you can make some pretty mad isk, only requiring a bit of time investment at first, but paying off within an hour.that said, i don't think nullsec needs any buffing. some mission agents in player outposts would be schweet  don't do many missions myself, but i know a loooot of people would love that feature , but ratting and mining still yields pretty good money.and yes, group mining on a quiet saturday evening after an exhausting week is something out of this world"
"this is false, what type of spawn you get is completely random, it does not 'build' up to better spawns. killing a spawn just means you have a random chance at getting any spawn from triple bs to frigate and cruiser randomly. also there is no such thing as a 3 million isk a pop chainable battleship, unless you ment multiple bs which bounties totaled more than 3mil isk for the chain. usually a good ratting session will net 20mil from bounties and 15 mil from loot/salvage per hour, assuming you dont get interrupted by passing hostiles which happens quite often in good truesec systems."
"you sure mate? i use that tactic when ratting all the time, simply destroy the spawns until they become good and then keep it all at that level. never had an encounter where i got a battleship rat right after frigate trash we don't get over dual 1.25 million spawns where i live though, that triple 3 million battleship rat stuff  yes, 9 millions in one belt  is from my hiking trip to stain empire space  any npc pirate controlled area should classify afaik, that's where the big fish live edit: oh, by the way, rats sometimes warp from one belt to another, that may give the impression you got a battleship spawn right after a frigate one."
"ive tested it in systems with 1 belt systems like these have a max of only 1 npc rat group. destroying a spawn completely means that a completely random spawn will appear next time in no way related to the previous spawn, i've seen a spawn get replaced by a similar spawn or worse spawn from elite cruiser/cruiser to frigate/cruiser. destroying the spawns till they become good is completely valid, but i'm saying that they 'get incremently better' part is false. also the highest possible chainable bs spawn isn't worth more than 2 mil isk tyrant is worth 1,850,000.00 isk which is the highest chainable sansha spawn . you might have gotten a true sansha spawn which is why you have that 9 mil total."
"naturally none of those will be for the pirate factions. no doubt about that. in the last 10 hours ratting i have done an average of 60 millions/hour, faction loot included.my normal average, when not running a ratting spree like this, is around 20 millions/hour without the faction spawn. even the cruiser spawn aren't so bad as you will kill them in no time and some other ship would have spawned when you return there."
"yes, no problem there, remove all the 4 +20 agents from high sec. naturally you must find them first, as they don't exists."
"hmm, could have sworn spawns 'build up'. not that i have tested it to be 100% sure of course, just got that general impression from the time i have spent in the belts. will have to get back to you with that i also checked the npc database and it appears tyrant is indeed the highest bounty sansha battleship, epic failure at my part  most likely i was still too much of a beginner to make a difference between normal and faction spawns back then . i rest my case"
"you could also try using the 'compare' button located at the bottom of all module info pages.this will open a window where you can compare different variations of the same module at least."
"i like the sb animation oh so much no"
"emptyquotin'"
"turn your effects off, there you go, issue fixed, stop being a ****** and spamming forums."
"2/10, character name makes this too obvious."
"support"
"i would support this suggestion but with 1 condition.ccp would have to find away of coding modules so that if a pilots not in the ship then they don't change the base stats of a ship. i would even support a ham fisted off-lining all modules when placed in a carrier if only the restrictions were lifted.that way we could through what ever you want into ship cargo holds but not have the old issue of having 4-5 expanded/rigged haulers in a carrier moving obscene amount of gear/fuel/resources.of coarse you would have to provide warnings indicated cargo exceeding limit when you try to move a ship to a carrier maintenace bay."
"this is the only change you're suggesting. the problem is that ccp's been pretty lazy about the other half of what you said: modules will often offline en masse when a ship's placed into an sma mostly on my bloody falcon x , and neither the player's skills nor any fitted modules will affect a ship's cargo space when in an sma."
"i like joe, but i like my learning skills mo'. sorry, joe, but that's a \"no go\" from this schmo."
"this is the level of ui customization we should have in eve.stargate worlds ui interview 2:42"
"i apologize for bypassing the word filter, but i believe that by using the word in a mature context i am not violating ccp's forums rules, and that it was necessary for the word to be apparent in order for the player community to make an informed decision concerning this matter.i do not approve of jade constantine's misogynistic usage of the term 'ra pe' in recently released chat logs. the quote:hate speech is unacceptable in any context, and this sample of casual speech reveals more about jade's character than any of his public communication ever could. joking around with the word 'rap e' is immature, celebrates, and helps perpetuate the culture of ra pe that western society wallows in.given this revelation, i must withdraw my previously strong support for jade as a csm council member. i advise other mature, concerned, eve players to do the same."
"are you just sore i didn't buy your spy intel?--------------------------------------------------------------- channel id: 2134464264 channel name: private chat rebethecca listener: jade constantine session started: 2008.08.05 01:30:29---------------------------------------------------------------<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.05 01:30:35 ] rebethecca > hi, have a minute?<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.05 01:31:07 ] jade constantine > hey there whats up ?<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.05 01:31:28 ] rebethecca > do you want a spy in goonfleet? like, a really well-placed spy?<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.05 01:31:42 ] jade constantine > we don't really care to be honest<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.05 01:31:58 ] jade constantine > we only wardecced them for a bit of idle fight practise for our new players from time to time<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.05 01:32:10 ] jade constantine > knowing where they are with spy intel would spoil the fun<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.05 01:32:36 ] rebethecca > i meant more about darius and bane, what they were discussing and so forth.<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.05 01:33:29 ] jade constantine > not really that interested tbh<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.05 01:33:35 ] rebethecca > but if you aren't interested, you aren't interested. okay."
"lol"
"poasting in a sunday thread even if it monday"
"the word you're so bothered by is a natural part of human character. humans are, by nature, selfish animals, and given a chance to escape consequences, they will ****, murder, lie, steal, cheat and sell their grandmothers and children into slavery. they'll do all this for nothing more than a brief moment of happiness, for the chance to be the monkey with the jawbone and the puddle of water, or for a quick buck.of course, we have a system designed to superficially overcome our profoundly disgusting and horrid natures. it's called civilization. civilization is a set of arbitrary and unnatural rules that overcome our monkey nature by training in us a sense of the existence of others and the idea that we might become something greater by thinking of others. the result is an almost immeasurably small advance in cooperation and unselfish behaviour.one of those unnatural rules is that you don't tell other people what they can and can't say. unrestricted verbal discourse at all levels is required, as it is the replacement for the jawbone. threatening jade by asking for her removal is censorship, pure and simple. it is also worse than pointless: the behaviour is natural, and removing the word changes nothing about the intrinsic human urge; it does, however, compromise the rules of civil behaviour that might one day control that urge.the fact that you have made frivolous accusations and violated these civilized standards because you couldn't make a sale goes beyond laughable right into absurd, and puts you right back in paragraph one."
"wow. just wow. from dictionary.com, some alternative definitions for ****:using the word \"raep\" does not constitute misogyny, ever."
"hilarious, possibly goon-related failure itt. 5'd."
"how dare you spy on me this is an outrage"
"maybe i was wrong."
"i confess! it was me, i, who laughed at your joke, at the table next to you, in that place, where you ate, some time ago. my humble apologies."
"by the way, you really should see a doctor about that..."
"see this? this is childish. this is why people don't want you in the csm, jade. not for something simple like the use of that word, but because you take childish measures against percieved slights completely out of proportion to what is being discussed, and the fact that you don't approach any discussion seriously.a serious answer would have been 'i was using the term in a less-serious colloquial context, whereby i was intimating that they would not have a snowball's chance in hell of succeeding. sorry you were offended.' see? easy."
"whoa there, soban. slow yer roll. you're going to give yourself a coronary."
"how exactly is calling out a mole with an axe to grind attempting payback in a **** poor fashion at that childish?"
"sorry but i preferred to burn the idiot instead. i've played eve on \"hardcore\" mode for five years, not about to start giving alt numpties of the benefit of doubt now."
"posting in a thread in which the term \"alt numpties\" is used."
"that would have been a stupid answer. op got the reply he deserved."
"you are the first person i've ever seen refer to living in empire as \"hardcore\" mode."
"granted this was my first meeting as an acting alternate, but i assure you i have spent plenty of time in 0.0 throughout the last 4+ years, and i'm sure at least some of the others could be considered more than just \"inexperienced empire dwellers\" as well.you might have a case for suggesting that darius is perhaps more qualified on 0.0 matters than others, but he's not the outright only one./ben"
"oh, yeah, i have no idea who the alternates are. just going by the original csm listing, and their current involvement in 0.0 sov warfare. none"
"probably the last too after :<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.03 17:38:46 ] ben derindar > nay for this specific proposalwelcome to the 0.0 powerbloc buddy"
"thats a sort of fair enough statement. sadly the sifting element is overshadowed by snr, individual ego, and amazing ignorance of existing game mechanics .let the designers design. if they seek sifted and accurate player feedback the csm in it's current form is not the way to do it. my alternate suggestion has been posted elsewhere."
"welp, fail. i guess you are just as useless as everyone said you would be. oh well. enjoy your ruined game."
"i've added the issue to the next agenda for the august 17th meeting and urged the csm delegates to put aside some time to go test the speed patch on sisi and speak to players testing these changes in the interim. i consider what was voted against at the august 3rd meeting was my with input from omber specific motion that csm release a collective statement: \"its the csms position that the best answer to the anti-speed-nerf issue at this time is that people feeling strongly against this balancing patch should make time to test it on sisi and form realistic combat situations and provide detailed feedback to ccp developers. lets raise the argument from the nerf sucks to this is the impact of these changes and why x,y,z element needs to be adjusted. meanwhile lets ask ccp for a list of of what they are trying to accomplish and whether the changes do that or go overboard.\"this was refused by the csm 4/4 vote. but it doesn't mean we have ruled out addressing the speed issue or have decided either way on the validity/desirability of changes at this point."
"oh my god, you are so dense.so guys what became of that idea for the revolving chairman?"
"lavista, darius: of course, opinion polling only tells you what a given group thinks, there's no direct implication that the group is right. but knowing what 0.0 dwellers think is a fairly good antidote to ignorance about 0.0 affairs, and assuming that the poll was actually conducted semi-properly, charges of outright ignorance are baseless. for that matter, assuming that people who experience something directly know it relatively well, and that there's no bias in those resulting opinionswhich is true nowhere near as often as i'd like, but work with me here a competent pollster is actually the best-educated person around. statistically speaking, the smartest guy in the world is dumber than the average of the next 10, who in turn are dumber than the average of the next 100. the bigger the group, the smaller the standard deviation of the error. this is the reason why democracy works - the average person can be astoundingly ignorant, but you stick millions of them in a room and the resulting answer usually isn't too bad. it certainly seems to work better than sticking 10 of the best, brightest, and backstabbiest onto a central committee and hoping for a paradise. as long as you're doing it right - safe and cloak, before you ask around in local - i imagine that you can ask around without undue risk. you'll get eaten by the occasional bubble, of course, but that's what alts that people think are the main are forespecially with a name like \"ankhesentapemkah\", who would notice a typo in that name?. and i didn't say that there wasn't systematic bias either, just that it probably wasn't large enough to destroy the merits of the data. i hope the 50 interviews were conducted across most of the 0.0 regions and alliances' space, because if, say, the only samples you took were of goons, then your data would only reflect the opinion of goons. a systematic bias of this sort - like the bias caused by most of the 0.0 dwellers you know being your goon corpmates - might well introduce a large bias into your data, even if your sample size were larger, but i should hope someone setting out specifically to run an opinion poll would specifically avoid any obvious sources of bias. ankh, care to comment on your research methods?"
"welp, fail. i guess you are just as useless as everyone said you would be. oh well. enjoy your ruined game.i've added the issue to the next agenda for the august 17th meeting and urged the csm delegates to put aside some time to go test the speed patch on sisi and speak to players testing these changes in the interim. i consider what was voted against at the august 3rd meeting was my with input from omber specific motion that csm release a collective statement: \"its the csms position that the best answer to the anti-speed-nerf issue at this time is that people feeling strongly against this balancing patch should make time to test it on sisi and form realistic combat situations and provide detailed feedback to ccp developers. lets raise the argument from the nerf sucks to this is the impact of these changes and why x,y,z element needs to be adjusted. meanwhile lets ask ccp for a list of of what they are trying to accomplish and whether the changes do that or go overboard.\"this was refused by the csm 4/4 vote. but it doesn't mean we have ruled out addressing the speed issue or have decided either way on the validity/desirability of changes at this point. you can say you're raising the issue until you're blue in the face. issues get raised once per session as per agreement. you're attempting to waste our time to pander and it's not within your purview to do so. once again a vote doesn't go your way and you attempt to ignore the system. you are with out a doubt one of the sorest losers i have ever come across on the internet. that's saying a lot fyi.in case you didn't learn from the last few times. you don't get to change the rules midstream simply because you don't like the results. grow the **** up.you know for someone who griped repeatedly about taking these things public, ignoring the emails from the rest of the council saying you shouldn't be doing this then posting here is a bit hypocritical i'd think."
"here is a link:minmatar combat issuesi have reviewed your blog releases, and i concur that you have taken a lot upon yourselves. please accept my gratitude for putting yourself in harm's way as it were and know that you have my respect for doing so.i, therefore ask respectfully, that each of the csms review the above link. it has highlighted several base problems that needs to be addressed with higher end minmatar ships. sadly, it has grown to 37 pages with no recent developer response, and now that there appears to be a speed adjustment change which, even as a minmatar pilot myself, i agree with i, as well as a multitude of minmatar pilots, find that this makes it even more critical that the issues listed in the above link be addressed.considering the depth of the issue, and the details several have gone into, i also have put up a \"cliff notes\" version, that gives just basic ideas of what is wrong as well as some thoughts for solutions.summary of minmatar issuesplease, many of us and no doubt some of you as well have seen our beloved battleships go from being fearsome beasts to handicapped kittens through the processes of change, as well as confusion regarding the concept surrounding our capital ships.thank you again for your time, i do appreciate it."
"delete me"
"titans and cyno-jammers. the combination supports blobbing on unprecedented scale. in order to actually take out pos in a cyno-jammed system with titan support, you do not just have to commit suicide battleship fleets, but you have to commit absolutely everything in your disposal on the objective. the fewer cyno-jammed systems you attempt at the same time, the fewer battleship fleets you have to flush down the toilet.pos timing. this is why attempting many objectives at once isn't feasible. you may reinforce many different objectives, but the pos can be timed to come out one at a time. so there isn't the option of splitting your force up and attempting different objectives, cause the defenders will time them to come out of reinforced after the previous is fully repped. to the point where there is only 1 available target at any given time.after reading all of the specific 0.0 sov proposals that neglect to identify the cause of the observed problems, i think the csm should support 0.0 sov change through a different means.half of you want to propose a specific solution, the other half seem content to tell ccp that they are unhappy with current sov mechanics.so why don't you escalate something you can all agree on. lag sucks. blobbing 1 objective until the servers crash sucks.lets look at something that ccp doesn't like to focus on. system caps: they are real. not a feature, but they exist. perhaps if ccp came to terms with the fact that their servers simply can't handle thousands on thousands without ****ty gameplay, they might come to terms with a solution.instead of having system caps as an embarrassing weakness since its never going to go away, use it to an advantage. acknowledge that it exists like the rest of us have and design around it.who knows, maybe the system owner could reserve half of the bandwidth for whoever they choose, and the primary reinforcer can reserve the other half. v0v this is a 5min idea so nobody pledge to it~sounds like an instance at that point, but that is the reality of it anyways. you can't pack the entire eve populace into jita.so those are 3 things that i think cause obscene amounts of focused blobbing, and terrible server performance.-titans + cyno-jammers-pos timing-not recognizing and accepting system caps because its embarrasingi'm not gonna make any serious suggestions about how to make sov better, i think it would be more productive to analyze what causes the bad parts, instead of making specific suggestions. otherwise the csm will just have more ideas that 1/2 love and 1/2 hate. if you produce an issue that you all can agree upon, then at least you can then create a dialog with ccp about 0.0 sov."
"what happend with this, it made it into the minutes of the csm, then seems to have died.. any news?"
"the reason it should be like this is beacause:the person that is doing the killing is taking all the risk. empire war or whatever, he's risking his ship and pod when attacking his wartargets or whatever. so why the hell should a 10 day npc corp alt have the right to take the loot, with no risk or consequence?"
"here we go."
"to op:not that i oppose your suggestion, but would not your proposed changes just mean that the looters would adapt to work in pairs, where the first pilot loots the wreck then jetcans the loot to the second pilot = instant concord protection for second pilot, much like ore thiefs operate?so that leaves you with the gratification of shooting one looter, but it does not save \"your\" loot. basically you're back to square one.or do i miss something?"
"supporting it.its a bloody stupid mechanic the way it is. hand holding mission runners and ratters atm. make wreck ownership dual at least!"
"at least they can blast some pain into the first guy, have him lock as he approches etc.make the sneaky little no risk ****s work for it!"
"arse **** **** ****is this profanity filter broken today?edit: guess not.... carry on."
"qft - make loot in missions belong to the npc faction you're killing rather than the mission runners. please"
"agreed.here's how it needs to be fixed:people not involved with the kill, nor a part of the victim's corporation, should not be able to access the wreck. period.that'll solve both loot/salvage thieves, and suicide gangs because their scooping ship would have to be part of their corp and as such a target."
"thank god that's not what the pitboss has asked for, because salvage isn't theft. get past that, and you'll do fine in eve."
"agree.stealing is fine, but the thief should be flagged to those responsible for the kill."
"can thieves should be flagged too all for 5 minutes in my opinion. he stole stuff in plain view, he's a criminal!"
"it is pretty strange this doesn't happen."
"supported :good ideas and commentary. some minmatar ships need a slight boost."
"it's worth it to consider how a differentiation of capital missile launchers would change things up a bit. if we had capital cruise launchers and capital torp launchers with the same fitting and damage behavior as regular cruise and torp launchers, and if caldari get one more launcher high-slot, could see the following setups:pheonix:can fit either four cruise launchers or three torp launchers maybe four if you go crazy on the grid, but this loses damage mods.naglfar:can fit either two arty + two cruise or two torp launchers and two autocannons.assume that current citadel torps are in the middle ground as far as damage potential compared to new torps and capital cruise missiles.yes, short range guns are not valuable when you don't know what range you might end up shooting at, but when you do know hot-dropping on someone else the naglfar would have the highest short range dps in the game. in exchange, it still sucks as a sniper. can still select damage type to an extent, which is nothing to laugh at if you're an eft warrior and know what the enemy's setup will probably be.cpu buff is necessary either way. it's horrid right now and two capital launcher types won't ease the pain."
"i stopped paying attention to this thread when some rl stuff came up and bane took it before the csm <3, but knowing ccp the earliest this will be is a month or two if they've already noticed the terrible design of minmatar caps.nidhoggur is a great carrier as long as you never take it into combat. as a dread / carrier pilot my carrier only gets on km's when i've assigned fighters from 2m outside a pos. i'm currently training for triage which just makes the nidhoggur that much more awesome :"
"forgot to support my own topic"
"yes, this is a good idea. would be nice to test something before committing a large amout of time to train something you find out you really dont want."
"don't see any downsides"
"i am sure i do not need to go into detail here. 0.4 is lowsec. make it so. there is absolutely no reason why charters, standings, and anchoring activity should be any different than 0.3."
"dont forget you cant get moon poo in a .4i support this.i do remeber someone once telling me that the rp explanation was that .4s were a sort of no mans land between high sec and low sec, so all the problems of both and non of the advantages. not sure if that was the vision that ccp had, but i find 0.4s differences from a .3 silly."
"/signed"
"signed"
"supporting in a thread where the words \"moon poo\" are used."
"not just a nano nerf, but a gallente and minmatar nerf. ill conceived and badly implemented in its current state."
"against"
"hell no!"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against the nerf"
"against"
"nerf extreme speeds, trash the ideas in the dev blog, and find some people with a clue to come up with ideas before publishing them.against this nerf."
"unprepared should always equal dead"
"against"
"against"
"gimps way too many ships, and basically it just seems lazy."
"down with minnie nerfs!"
"every1 is moaning that there is not away to kill them on ur own i kill them on mmy own easy in a bs i have my own techneak that gets rid of any of em plus theres the rapier/mugin that can web em to death not to mention the jammin/dampin ships that can jam or damp the inty/nano*** i mean i read the blog and it was like mmm gd up to now then i go to the bit to nerf all ships speed hmmm abit over top but ill carry on readin then theres the drones that can catch nano/***s y even bother doing that nano***s kill the enemy ships drones anyway so thats pointless and then the web nerf way over the top i mean u dnt exactly have any nanoer thatr comes to ur web range and wen they do they get out easy at it is and with web nerf u might as well just not carry one since all other ships if ur gate campin will just get to get easyier even a freighter could get to gate faster now i bet lol :d and then the short range scram boost all mwd's will be made inactive if u get hit by these wtf they have 7,500m range i think no nano *** will ever go that close in first place let alone 10 km and even if they do they just do wat they did with the web go fling out i mean sure the mwd gets turned of but base speed much even with web it will still be faster than a bs and i bet the inty/nano*** will carry one just incase the bs trys mwd to them or any other nano*** trys it so over all ccp has yet failed at another nerfp.s sorry about the crap typing i aint a gd speller lol"
"against"
"against."
"against,"
"against the minmatar being kicked in the nuts again and again yes"
"signed because of gallente and minnie getting screwed over."
"thanks for your efforts jade, its appreciated. keep on pushing !!!to the other csm members : i think the message given by the vote is pretty clear, so i don't understand why you are reluctant on voicing the results of the vox-populi ? invoking the fact that the proposed changes are still subject to change is b***s**t. you know as well as i, that if we don't act now, the nerf is going to happen. so get in the frontline and act based on the votes!!also unsure what some of your csm members-1, that voted against the csm putting something forward are going to test on sisi. as they seem to have close to no kb stats / proven combat experience, or display any relevant pre nerf pvp experience..... or does being in csm mean that you are defacto experts on small gang warfare and tactics ? if they would have been pre-occupied by the upcomming changes they would already have tested is on sisi the day it was released. don't you think so ?"
"against, in this current state it is simply to much!tweaking instead of breacking please!"
"against"
"against the nano/blasterboat nerf."
"against!"
"against.!. ccp 4tl"
"against the nerf/signed"
"against!!!!!!!!!!"
"against"
"k"
"this is my vote, there are many like it."
"i like exciting pvp where anything can happen. they seem to be steering the game in the direction of \"arena pvp\" which will basically be like the alliance tournaments. you can't expect to just hit f1-f8 and win every fight...or maybe you can now there are plenty of ways to beat nano ships as it stands, and they are extremely vulnerable when you catch them. they also tend to be expensive, so you are flying an expensive ship with no tank other than speed.also as mentioned the nerf will have a negative impact on ships that aren't even \"nano ships\".so, you could say i'm against the nerf, at least in its current form"
"support!!!ya never know, maybe people will actually have to think in game now."
"wholeheartedly for!"
"supported"
"stability is good , too many vagas running around , ruining the combat. interceptors are the speed ships and should always be i loves my interceptor"
"doing my part, voting for the nerf."
"support."
"support nerf nano"
"i like the idea in general.nice fiction story btwbut i'm afraid at the long scale this will only involve more that some part of pilots who curently living in outlaw space will return to more save space and thats probebly the last thing what our developers want to happence in game.atm they are still not managed get to the point where pilots out empire switch to to 0.0 securety space life. and any posseble change what could bring whit in possebility that will result in discrasing population on the long run, will be probebly avoidet by ccp in any means.so long ccp will not find out or get any good idea from citizens of eve what can replase local and still not do any impact on population in 0.0 space they will move that ideas in the corner and wait for better solution.just my 2cents.regard cyb"
"edited for contenttell you the truth i have never had such a rush in a non combat situation as a small scale roaming engagement with like minded and usualy bigger opponents, lag is less and you get to realy fell the fight.i usualy come out of those short of breath and swating profusely, which is better than the fill my pants feeling i get when someone is trying to kill me.of course it's just a game and i do get paid to go get shot at.__________________________________________________________________________________________\"if you don't stand behind the troops, feel free to stand in front of them.\""
"right, because graphical artists are going to do a wonderful job fixing lag and optimizing code some people even want it. hell it surprised me when i found out you were always stuck in your ship when i first started eve.and i would love to have no lag and massive battles but sadly i don't see it happening anytime soon"
"1. ccp fixes lag, so that 400-600 players in local can have a fight with 10s module delay. everybody says awesome.2. players start having 800-1000+ fights in local. new threads like this start, players praise the op and obviously blame ccp."
"didnt read it all, but heres my opinion:we want huge fleet fights, but not the kind eve offers. eves are just lagfests, no fun at all"
"10 second module delay would not be 'awesome' it would be unacceptably slow.i'd think of 2-3 second module delay as reasonable under extreme circumstances. but i'd understand if others felt that was too much lag."
"well currently we can get up to 30 minute module lag in large fights, so 10 seconds is pretty good in comparison"
"10 seconds might be better by comparison, but that doesn't mean it counts as 'pretty good'."
"for that you'd have black ships, unmarked vessels without bounty dropping no loot, randomly appearing to hassle people."
"/signedas one from variants of solution i'm offer implement passwords on ship without whitch activation of ship will be impossible."
"still fence sitting on this one am i.also, include the speed buff to af's plz."
"yes... in a perfect world maybe..."
"your ****posting. either take it elsewhere or actually prove what you saying without resorting to vagueries."
"as a staunch blasterbs pilot - i have to say i fully support sarmaul's idea, retains the purpose of mwd's and at the same time takes some of the edge off the nanoness of select ships.not that i've ever been pwn'd by a nanovaga, no, not at all. i'm not bitter about it either...*grins* seriously though, as has been said, way easier to implement, so come on ccp, let it loose on sisi for a few days and get some practical feedback eh?avanine.obvious alt is obvious?"
"if this goes through, you can grab my forum alt's bewbies."
"i just forces every nanoship to fight like the vaga does, by pulsing the mwd to do damage. for vaga pilots it'll be a return to the status quo, except maybe they can't surpass 6k m/s anymore if ccp tweaks implants and polycarbon rigs. but it turns the sacrilege into a slower version of the vaga with less ehp and less dps. it removes the ability of the sniper-hacs to mwd-kite while firing to try and keep their range to avoid incomming tacklers. goodbye to interceptor dogfights.this idea is basically, \"i fly the vaga so make it immune to the nano-nerf please, and to hell with every other ship.\""
"i'm sorry, what is the sacrilege now? it's not as fast as the vagabond no matter what you do to it, so it's... a slower hac. without the tracking or falloff issues turret ships contend with. i fail to see why this is a bad thing, as they are two different ships.yes it does. in this scenario, you're relying either on superior piloting skills, or better support on your side to keep the enemy support fleet at bay. and if the only defense you have against tackle frigates are sniper hacs, congratulations, you just failed eve.now, it has been suggested elsewhere that interceptors gain a role bonus that would allow them to use their guns while their mwd is active. this bonus could go to the \"dogfighters,\" aka crow, claw, sader, ranis. and while teamwork crow might have been obnoxious, that's a very special case that doesn't break the game, just the economy no, this idea is a compromise between leaving things as they are, which obviously isn't an option anymore, and making poorly thought-out and grandiose sweeping changes to almost every aspect of the game while alienating a large part of your player base."
"yes, it's true that after this change there will be some things that the vaga does better than the sac, notably speed. however the sac is still the best tanking hac, as well as being workable as a fast attack ship using nanos.each ships should have varied strengths and weaknesses, and the fact that after this change not every hac will work equally well as a nanoship isn't much of a criticism."
"comparing the tranq nanosac to the tranq vaga, it goes much slower topping out at less than 6km/s, has less ehp, and has lower peak dps. but in exchange for those trade-offs, it has the ability to perma-mwd while firing missiles. the point of the change outlined in the op is to break the sac's ability to perma mwd while firing missiles, in addition to breaking the other things that i meantioned for eagles, cerbs, zealots, munnins, and all interceptors.the core of the idea is to try and appease ccp/the masses by breaking every nano-hac except the vaga, even though the vaga is actually the nanoship that exhibits to the greatest degree the thing that ccp is trying to end -- \"ludicrous speed\". the vaga will be as effective as ever after this change; no one who pilots it will even have to change anything about their fighting methodology. but every other hac will lose a considerable amount of combat effectiveness. it's pretty transparent.i'm all for alternative solutions to the over-the-top nano-nerf that's on sisi, but this isn't the answer.\"1 mwds are used for rapid positioning: getting into a fight, getting out of a fight or charging down enemies....3 abs are used for fighting.\"if you want this to be the case, then add in a big multiplier for ship inertia when the mwd is activated to make it impossible to hold orbit. otherwise, mwds are for all those things and also for speed tanking fighting. of course since the idea is really just about preserving the effectiveness of the vaga in the face of this nerf, i doubt that will get any consideration."
"the vaga fights at the edge of web range to do decent dps, it has to slow down to do this dps.the sac can orbit as far out as its warp disruptor allows, going full speed spewing missiles that do their damage regardless of tracking.yeah, it's the vaga that needs nerfed."
"this makes a hell of a lot more sense than what ccp has proposed."
"interesting, i give it 2 thumbs up."
"supporting this simple and effective idea, seeing as the impending changes are ridiculous to say the least."
"i like this."
"failure idea. just delete the ishtar instead, it would be easier. or delete the curse's drone bay?fact is, the only things that actually need to be changed are these.make polycarbs inline with the t2 modules or even down to the same as aux thruster rigs.lower the cumulative speed boost given by snake implants by a quarter to a third.lower the speed boost given by overheating mwds.if all that is not enough, then look at lowering the boost given by skirmish warfare links slightly."
"uhm, the point is that the ishtar and curse were never designed to zip about at stupid speed dealing full dps...."
"the point is that you get a ***ging rapier on the field and you shut the hell up."
"me likes"
"why even nerf speed in that case? if you need to get rapiers on the field all the time anyway there's no need.fail itt."
"minnie recons are how you catch a nano-boat reliably. there are tons of other ways to catch them a little less reliably, or drive them off.i don't really see the 3km/s ishtar as a problem tbh. not hard to grab."
"it also breaks the ishtar's ability to run full speed while losing none of it's dps, which honestly is pretty unreasonable. here's the issue i think we're having - you measure a nano'd hacs combat effectiveness in how much dps it can do at speed. those of us who support this change measure it in terms of being able to engage and disengage on favourable terms, a tactic that nanos are quite good at, but that is by no means exclusive to their class.you're right that the vagabond already fights this way. we're not of the opinion that the vagabond is broken, because unlike the majority of carebear mouth-breathers who post-sisi are gleefully posting \"adapt or die lolololz\" since their ratting raven got ganked in a belt by a nano gang, we understand what speed in this game really means. however, we also feel it is unreasonable to expect to be able to do full damage to a target while you are warping space around your ship to achieve critically high speeds that allow you to avoid the fire of most weapons systems.a speed tanking is not the same as fighting, and b you almost had an idea, but wrapped it up with an insult. so close. try again."
"neither do we. but it's become apparent that enough people at ccp do see it as a problem that we're going to get speed nerfed, somehow, in the near future.i've never seen excessive speed as a problem as i've killed, and been killed in, a number of these mythically \"invincible\" nano ships. if i see a 12 kps machariel burn off a gate away from me, i give that pilot a f*king salute, because he's got the balls to put stupid expensive modules on his ship and in his head that he will lose eventually for the sake of raw speed, and in a sandbox universe there's no reason people shouldn't have the option to do that.this change preserves such options, while eliminating what makes it actually broken - the ability to do full damage to a single target while your speed makes you nearly invulnerable. gang situations are obviously an entirely different affair, but again, the people gnashing their teeth and calling for nerfs display an obvious lack of experience with non-fail gangs. if all you're going to do is object to this idea's necessity, then go hit up one of the dozen other nano nerf threads. preserve this one for discussing this particular idea's actual merits / demerits, please."
"sounds better to me than what we'll likely end up with.sarmaul <3"
"supporting this"
"even with its faults this is 1000% better than what ccp has proposed."
"i don't like this for two reasons:1 mwds are required for battleships to get out of dictor bubbles, losing weapon systems while at it would be terrible in laggy conditions.2 more importantly, it does nothing to address the problem of there being no possibility of catching superfast ships, even with dedicated counters such as huginns and muninns, and the physics engine in eve not coping with such speeds."
"will the proposal include a 8 sec mwd reactivation time?if not, ships that can use instant damage weapons with rof close the mwd cycle time will have a huge advantage.for example a muninn could cycle its mwd, fire a rack of 720 after 10 sec, restart mwd and repeat.it will lose some dps but hardly no speed. use a scripted logitech g15 keyboard for this and the task will be trivial."
"this is a complete joke !!! can't find any logical reasondefenitely againts !!!!"
"in all fairness, what battleship class long range weapon can actually track while it's moving at 1000-1400m/s"
"against anyway, why exactly?"
"1 if you can activate your mwd you can reactivate your guns after using it tbh.2 have you seen how many nano ships die every day? there are plenty of counters and if used well they are effective. and the whole physics engine can't handle it is a heap of crap, people have gotten ships up to 70km/s + and nothing broke."
"i approve. and what wierda says, let's still keep the mass reduction on afs and webscram-turns-mwd-off for giving them roles too."
"regarding #2, if you mean >7km/s by superfast, then i agree. well see the thing on sisi is that t2-vanilla setups are nerfed too much while still not adressing certain problems e.g. an ishtar can try speedtanking while doing damage, missiles hit a lot of ships need speed because they have nothing else, range on falcons is even harder to counter because it takes longer to reach them, etc.pp.i don't want to invest billions to get an ishtar doing 6k and i don't mind if that vanishes, but i don't want to invest billions to get an ishtar which might in the end reach 3k, with luck. in a straight line. and therefore rendering a lot of hacs useless or at least questionable"
"well ok, but i don't really know how you can leave it's non necessity out of it. ok, so the main thing is, where does this leave the ishtar and the sacrelidge etc? their strength is that they can maybe fit a cap battery and use mwd for a long time, while doing damage independent of tracking. however they do not go particularly fast. they cannot automatically burn out of any danger. also ****s over the vaga that tries to kill a ceptor that is buzzing it. and hell, even battleships with long range weapons. they need to use mwd to get in or out of a position, and they can't use their guns at the same time? it's stupid."
"\"
"this leaves other nano hacs with fewer targets they can engage with impunity, sure, but if their only strength was the ability to run the mwd and still do full damage then that points to other balance issues that need to be addressed.it would indeed mess up a vagabond being tackled by an interceptor, which is arguably a direct nerf to the vaga's combat ability. however, the same could be said of any hac, and i still maintain that if you're relying on hacs to kill inties then your gang makeup needs to be adjusted.lastly, since long range guns on battleships are generally the providence of specialized sniper fleets and not close-range small gangs, you should be relying more on your covops for warp-ins than on your mwd for positioning."
"sarmaul for dev"
"pulse lasers."
"supporting this, by far one of the best ideas put out with regards to nerfing speed."
"supporting this. :"
"i still need to think through all the possibilities, but asking ccp to consider this?definitely. its eloquent and simple."
"much more simple and effective. i would love a blue bar on this, at least some opinions.my support."
"if you nerf snakes and polys almost universally recognized as needing balancing then those superfast ships are brought back in line with normal fast ships, which are very catchable and do not break the physics system."
"shoulda seen that comming technically speaking though, pulse shouldn't really be classed as long range weapons. i know scorch apocs can be, but that's a whole other different issue."
"against for sure. i love the upcoming idea and i've been on the test servers checking it out and i love it even if i loose my crappy nano-sac :"
"this idea has my full support. it's simpler than the currently proposed changes so will likely have fewer unintended issues emerging. it solves the problems that ccp has set out to solve without messing with a lot of things that really are fine right now."
"what about a ship like the megathron? or crusader? so with that suggestion a megathron has to wait until mwd cycle is over before it can start shooting? what if the other pilot starts to move, how does the megathron control range without a mwd or do they have to stop shooting to get back into range?"
"as always, supportin' sarmaulalso, dineek is a hottie"
"better than the current idea where they simply can't use their mwd at all.also, brilliant idea. signed."
"yar, far better than ccp's mess"
"maybe increasing some of the lower end systems true sec a bit, but tbh, i always thought the guys crying about 0.0 not making enough money were full of sh*t.yes, farming lvl 4's will make you more money, but it will also make your eye's bleed and your iq to drop sharply for each hour you persist. at least 0.0 has a decent variety of things that all make decent money, from plexing, to mining, to ratting, hell, if you live near npc 0.0 you can farm those bastards for missions.i call fowl"
"again?"
"no i disagree strongly1. its not \"realistic\" that a spaceship doesnt have all other vessels present in the system on its scanner even though not the exact location2. it would totally **** up the game as it stands now - the gamesystem is built for local etc - remove local without a different system and you seriously damage the game."
"no, totally against this idea. why should you the pirate get any more advantage over the miner/mission-runner. you work for your target.ab"
"1 onboard scanner... try using it once in a while. it's not \"realistic\" that you automatically enter a system knowing exactly who is there, without having to put forth some effort to find out.2 see #1."
"repeativly smashing the scanner button is going to make my eyes bleed and my hands get carpel tunnel. i would much rather do level 4's with no risk for better rewards thanks ccp for the upcoming suicide ganking nerf /sarcasm than rat in 0.0 without local."
"ok, first lets address #1i could see all ships withing your natural ship scanner range being on scan, but system wide? cmon, how broken is that? your telling me that with active scan you can get 20au or so, but with a natural passive scanner you should be able to see the entire system, and know the pilots affiliation, and name?for statement number #2: how is the system built for local?to answer this guy, we do work, and the reward for the amount of work you get for actually trying while roaming is very small, even more so when compared to the amount of work ratters/miners have to put in for getting their reward. you simply watch local, warp, and cloak, or hide at a pos as soon as it adds any new people. yea, thats balanced and fair, we have to scan you out of the belts, usually with a directional scanner, and warp, hoping you were afk, or talking, or just plain dumb and didn't insta warp as soon as we jumped in system. our chance of scoring a kill is about 5% or less, where as your chance for avoidance is near 100% as long as your simply sitting at your computer.yes, something would need to be done to make the scan consant at range, with the ability to narrow the scan down like now if you wanted, but without the need to ping the system constantly. i can't believe active radar would be that hard to come up with for these guys on a minimal lag level. however, its pretty immersion breaking to always know everything about the first thing that jumps in system with a simple click. its also detrimental to small gang warfare, and roaming in general.everybody seems to be on the fair balance trip lately. how many of you support the nano nerf? and then come in here with the same breath and say that the current intel system is balanced?so the miners charge more? friggin sweet, they finally have a reason to make more than the crap-tastic minimal amount, making mining groups using scouts to cover gates in cov ops, ect. the result of that would likely be an increase in bs and other t1 ship prices, which is also great in my opinion, put some loss back into loosing a battleship. believe it or not i'm actually all for you guys making more for what you do."
"dont remove local only set local on delayed if u talk u show up"
"i could be fine with some sort of active scanning system, but i would still want an increase in rewards. mining will probably balance itself out due to the increased risk of mining in 0.0 is going to bump up the price of high ends till its worthwhile agian. however ratting you have a static reward.the reason for this is if you were ratting in 0.0, doing it in a group significantly cuts your profits. paying someone to watch a gate cuts them even more. attackers will always have the advantage if there was no warning of a gate activation unless you had someone actually watching a gate. group ratting in certain systems on top of having to split out isk to people to guard you, you have a limited number of belts thus a limited number of possible ratters before it becomes way less profitable. what i am saying is that in 0.0 it should be worthwhile to all parties if the ratting rewards were increased. not only would that mean it would be worthwhile for ratters to use a scout to help defend themselves, it will also mean an increase in the number of ratters in general giving you guys more possible ganks as you go through systems if certain ratters take additional risks to rat without a scout in place. i know you speak from the standpoint of a member in pandemic legion, and this local change stands to benifit you greatly, but i see no reason why you wouldnt want an increase in rewards to go along with the increase in risk. otherwise you might find that there is no one to very few people ratting as you go roaming through 0.0 because were all using our empire alts which would be more profitable."
"nerf local support"
"this idea is actually good"
"actually, i sort of do think that. i think that ccp's sneakiest, greif-lovingest, nano-abusingest carebear-rapingest dev should sit down, after every proposed set of changes, on their internal dev test sever, and think... what would i do with these new toys? how would i use this to /win/. sit and grind out some eft setups of new ships. of course, this cannot predict everything. one dev, 50 devs, cannot match the ingenuity of 150 000 players. however, plenty of stuff comes through and i look at the base stats and go \"woah, that's going to be sick\" or \"thats going to blow\". often the stuff that gets exploited is spotted, reported, and doesn't change hello t2 ammo!. ccp have listened and do more player testing now, but still... they should be afraid of how players might exploit stuff. that's the whole point. i actually think \"pre-nerf\" could be lessened or avoided with more consideration from the player's perspective.well, i appreciate you take the time to try and lay some of my concerns to rest, but i still feel you've kind of repeated yourself and i still feel that \"just train for it\" isn't good enough. i think about my small corp, which is very small, very high sp and has plenty of characters with 3-4 cruiser vs and even 3-4 bs vs. it would still screw us over if we had to fly one race to compete, because we still have some hyper-specialists who focus on one race. it's not a matter of changing our recruitment policy, because we're a close network of long-time rl and ingame friends who want to fly together. recruiting minmatars or gallentes to replace them is not a valid option, ever. if it would screw over a small, very cross-trained corp like us, how badly would it affect a larger, younger corp, which is surely more the norm?"
"agreed!"
"the detrimental effect to mixed fleets is noteworthy; however, that doesn't by itself mean that it's a terrible idea. an emphasis should be put on \"minor incentive\" rather than \"major advantage\".make it a small change, but at least allow it to exist. hell, introduce it pre-nerfed and see how it goes in the beginning. seems like it's going to work for black ops."
"how would that work out for bops. i must have missed that somewhere."
"not necessarily work for black ops... rather work for the game. i was referencing the point that they weren't introduced overpowered, rather underpowered. the same could be done to this if people don't want it to dominate."
"i see how it would be hard to work out in your case and frankly can't think of anything to propose right now.however, i do insist that faction fleets sound right and would have some serious advantages for promoting and enhancing gameplay, giving a new long term goal about where eve might go from here. from my point of view, we are done with the ships. titans are in and are being flown with impunity, outposts have been implemented, factional warfare is in, sovereignty and lag need and in time will to be ironed out. so what now ? we can't just hope ambulation will be the new content.... maybe it sounds conceited that i aspire to give a new vision to eve, but hey, all it takes is an idea.however my original intention was to put it up and let people brainstorm about it. i have no delusions that my proposed plan would work for everyone, and as you demonstrate it would make gameplay very difficult for you and your buddies. i won't take the \"adapt or die\" approach, this is not the army nor can anyone tell someone how to have fun, but maybe you could formulate a plan that would include faction fleets and could work even for cases like your company's ? i mean maybe changing the game in such a radical way is indeed not feasible, but maybe a smaller scale alteration that would add some spice to your run of the mill fleet ? fahtim's idea about enhancing just racial wings with command ships in a fleet doesn't sound that bad, does it ?"
"no, actually, racial /wings/ don't sound too bad. on the other hand, this already happens to an extent - you put your armor tankers in one wing, your speedy tacklers in another, your shields in another, and so on. its a possibility to take that further to pure-racial wings, sure! that said, in principle i am pro-sandbox, player ingenuity and choice, which this isn't, but thankyou for debating the pros and cons of the idea."
"this is sandbox, and very much so. individuals benefit from specialization with a more powerful niche role. it makes sense that fleets and corporations get a similar outcome.it is player ingenuity and choice. just like one individual has a choice to be great at one ship or decent at all ships and has the option to specialize in a race, a group of players should benefit accordingly. this proposal creates a mechanic that gives an emergent bonus to groups of similarly specialized pilots. it shouldn't force current mixed groups to re-specialize. however it simply makes sense that somehow a fleet of ships of one race should work well together - slightly better than a fleet of similar ships from multiple races."
"i also thought of this while working on the cross-training and small corps arguments.i don't know if it would be feasible to do with the current game code, but what if the 'faction fleet bonus' was applied only to t1 ships in the fleet ? benefits from this:1. you can easily give a roleplaying reason for this ie t2 ships are essentially hacked versions of t1 blueprints so built-in \"fleet coordination bonus\" does not work2. t1 ships are easily produced by everyone with very few skills. it's easy for any corp to acquire bpos of every race's t1 ship and built custom fleets to use for fleet ops. hurray, this way maybe we can actually achieve some level of realism for corp ops instead of \"bring your own ship to die in for the glory or your corp\". modules will still be an issue though.3. t1 ships are generally weak when compared to t2 counterparts, thus making them less \"exploitable\" when receiving the \"faction fleet bonus\", and in an ideal situation maybe a t1 bonused fleet could be countered by a similar sized t2 mixed fleet.4. no need to introduce t3 ships and modules and go through a new hell of whining, nerfing and rebalancing, thus rendering all current ships obsolete since everyone will want to fly a shiny new t3 ship, \"faction fleet bonus\" would render t1 ships the new t3, hopefully without them being overpowered.5. crosstraining requirements will be reduced to a minimum since you can skill up all ship types of a race up if your corp chooses a different race's fleet than your own to iv in what ? 2 weeks ? t2 weapon systems and modules will take more than that, true, however it's just as easy to use t1 named items in most cases.6. with playtesting and balancing you could achieve even more freedom and sandbox mode gameplay, giving players the chance to go in their t1 boosted fleets against t2 mixed fleets. one could actually argue that it would only add to gameplay and not take anything from it, just more choices.7. t1 ships might become more of just a stepping stone before you get into their t2 counterparts. a lot of work has gone apparently in creating those ships, it's a pity for them to be just noob-ships and poor man's choice. battleships of course a totally different class but hey, i am pretty sure a solution can be found about them.8. i can't wait to actually fly a bellicose again ! yes, i was silly enough to purchase one when i was grinding lvl2 missions"
"updated based on recommendations"
"what u should do is diminish damage of ddd if u want them not to wipe entire blobs. it will be much much easier.on the other hand neutralizer effect is currently a bomb effect... i don't think titans need such a extra add-on. warp calibration stuff can easily be exploited by more than 1 titan gangs... you can't even run from them anymore. 4 titan for a guaranteed kill with even %50 less damage ddds.heat damage is too much calculation for too little return... rp wise good but why should we have such a weapon that creates a huge lag.my sucky idea : a beam that kills with single shot 1 single target with a great tracking and say 250km range on titans with 200kmaybe more for a guaranteed kill racial damage :p that can attack every other 10sec. a titan against a fleet yaarrr :and actually it will make pointing a titan much much harder. actually make it somewhat ew invul once again...think titans as deathstars with beam weapons crushing 1 target at a time... btw i never fly a titan :"
"4 titans is 4x the risk for the same damage. it's also 4 titans that are scrambled on grid for 20 seconds minmum assuming they dd at the same time. that's more time for heavy dictors to get on them for points, more time for hostile caps to get onto grid and fry them."
"i actually like this a lot, still very very effective, and also doesn't wipe out a fleet.maybe have it blow all bubbles, disable all modules for 20 seconds, neutralize all capacitor, jam everyone for 20 seconds, and also all engines.cancel all modules effects except siege mode.i like it. any change to the ddd is a good change."
"i was under the impression originally that isk farming was a macrominer problem, but now i see that these greedy bastards manage to parasitize the game throughout. everyone suffers except the sleaze bags doing the damage. as some have noted, it is not an easy problem to manage, but some things can be done. ccp should deal with offenders in any link of the chain swiftly and without second chances. one thing that may make isk farming a little more difficult, is simply to take away the wardec protection that membership in npc corps provides. it would adversely effect some innocent players, but not to an egregious degree i think, to deny tech-ii ships and equipment to npc corp members, thus flushing many macroers into more vulnerable positions. additionally, i should hope that ccp and our reps see the danger to eve these defilers present. the more they succeed, the more of them we can expect to see polluting the game and the more eve's economy will degrade. i encourage relentless and aggressive search and destroy efforts by ccp. these are merely suggestions, not demands, and a statement of my staunch support for crackdowns against these parasites."
"yes, i support the extra fitting idea, this will give mining barges a small boost. pirates might not like it, but why should a solo miner be such an easy target.ab"
"oh.. i think its fits perfect into the 'give mining profession some attention' located here"
"maybe i'm missing something here because its early in the morning. but to get into a hulk you need mining barge 5, and thats a 20+ day skill from iv to v with +4 to the needed learning and advance learning skills and +3 implants. what i find odd is that you need only mining barge iv to get the exhumer training skill but you cant actually fly any of the exhumer ships until you get mining barge v along with the other required skills."
"this is what the retargeting delay on cloaks is for. of course, that method would be hilarious with a sinand since i'm training up sin skills now, i almost want it to be implemented just for that, but i have no objection to a black ops getting the drop on somebody when it's lying in wait to do exactly that."
"i support this"
"except the whole complaint against cloaks needed balanced, is due to the fact that a ship just rendered visible can still use drones or aoe immediately."
"yeah, except that they'd have to aggress you before the drones would do anything if you can't get a lock. and once a drone's active, it can't be scooped. assuming they're just looking for a cheap steal and not a fight, they'll just run when they decloak you. hence, it's mostly limited to black ops, given that bombers don't have drone bays, and given the nature of the bo's, the sin is the only one i'd want to try it with."
"you can use that excact same line of reasoning as support *for* giving fw it's own forum.how the hell are new players gonna find anything about fw atm? no bridging there.and a new player reading the first few posts in caod is sure to not return there for quite some time... no bridging there eitheretc.so agreed - a fw forum is *needed* to bring fw \"to the masses\".get's my thumbs up."
"this is pretty simple change. everyone in high-sec space should be un-attackable by default, unless they intentionally flag themselves for pvp. basically, attempting to activate weapons or hostile modules against someone in high-sec who is not flagged for pvp should result in an \"i'm sorry, i can't do that dave\" message being printed on the screen and the weapon or module should refuse to activate. to flag or un-flag for pvp, you simply right-click on your ship display and check or uncheck an \"high-sec pvp enabled\" option. pkers who flag themselves for pvp can show up in the overview with a flashing blue background -- that way they can find one another to fight.high-sec also needs a dueling mode so that you can fight your friends without flagging for general pvp. this would work by right-clicking on your opponent in the overview and click a \"duel\" option. your opponent does the same for you, and the duel starts five seconds later. the duel ends whenever either combatant leaves the grid where the duel was started, or when either combatant takes structure damage. of course, since this is just a duel, the worst damage that either ships can take will still leave it with one point of structure. repairs to recover from damage received in duels should be free, because they're just for fun.as for war decs: they still apply like normal in low-sec, but in high-sec you should only be able to attack war targets if they're flagged for pvp. concord is getting more strict in high-security space all the way around since that nasty business in yulai!i think that these changes will fit in very well with the theme of ccp's most recent changes."
"no"
"just for clarification wasn't this idea already raised by a member of the csm?"
"man's just sayin that ccp should cut out all this middle ground crap and do what it is they're obviously heading towards.they can even call it the trammel expansion so everyone will know where they stand."
"i agree completely. if there's one thing everyone knows, it's that empire space is for consensual pvp only. all this nasty business with empire wardecs and suicide ganking is simply ruining this game. after all, if this game isn't about macromining safely in highsec what's it about?"
"possibly; great minds think alike."
"this is not wow. i know that's a very standard comeback, but in this case the references are so damn plain to see that it's appropriate."
"as an american, i think that ccp should allow concord to do it's job and stop appeasing the terrorists. you're either with us, or against us and hate freedom"
"definately. my playstyle is as valid as any griefer's. actually, my playstyle is more valid because i have ethics and morals. killing other players should be a capital offence. that should apply to 0.0 and low sec too. if you kill anyone in 0.0, whenever you come near a low sec gate you get executed, and your character biomassed. if you kill anyone in low sec, whenever you come near a high sec gate, the same thing happens.that would make the game more balanced when it comes to people who simply don't want to pvp."
"see my sig..."
"i see what you did there."
"ha ha, a parody thread. how droll."
"high-sec pvp should be opt-in only. : no.high-sec is *not* 100% riskfree, and ccp never intended it to be nor should it be plenty of other games that offer that kind of mechanics *hint hint*it's _safer_ but definatly not safe. nor should it be.also, give us dueling mode! : sure why not. don't really care either way - but can't see what it would hurt"
"not yet!"
"why in the world would any one split there forces. it makes no sense. the way covops and intel works now avoiding a gang is pretty tough if they are hunting you. and if you take time to sit at a gate to capture it you are asking for a beating, especially if they are currently hunting you.look man, i have seen first hand certain dead alliance's doing the cta spilt forces thing. and they get boned. every time. when you call in for fire on a target you do not call in just enough to get the job done. you call in enough to obliterate."
"in some cases it would make sense to do it - it just depends on how far apart you're going to split them, like how many jumps away. if the travel time between groups is longer than the time it takes to capture a gate, or one group can stall the blob sufficiently to let the other one accomplish its goals, then it makes a lot of sense.yeah, in a single system that takes 20 second to cross with your blob, there's no advantage to splitting up - but if you have groups operating all across a constellation or region, hitting gates where the enemy forces are not and evading or skirmishing with them when the blob shows up, that can work. it just depends on how the system is designed.my point is that there is a distinct potential for great use of tactics given the right mechanics, and that much of the current conventional wisdom doesn't have to apply to a proposal like this, though many people just assume that it does."
"kelsin,i will give you credit for the work you put into your proposal. i do recognize the fact you did work this out the best you could. the presentation left too many angles for objection. keep your readers / audience focused on a few points and each point should be understood with in the first two or three sentences.this will give the opportunity for others to expand off the bullet points. by putting out too many working parts someone somewhere will attack it and not vote for it or completely misunderstand what you are driving at. which a lot of players will look at it and think that this will be as complicated as what is written. you gave the option for others to expand. but there was so many things to look at it you saw frustration. you might not be able to put all three layers on at once. it might be too much. you might have to install one layer at a time and then only add the next layer once you see the first one working."
"that's very good advice, i appreciate that. i think you're right and the big picture was obscured by some of the little bits. also i appreciate the critiques, it helps pinpoint what is the core of the idea and what can be tossed for clarity. these sorts of things do need to hit the right balance between detail and big picture."
"farrqua is right ofc, but there is a fundamental problem with the direction of the op as well as many problems in the detail, this proposal reduces the focus on internet spaceship pew pew, and instead presents logistical micromanagement as an alternative 'battlefield'.logistics isn't that much fun - and there is already too much of it involved in holding 0.0."
"i may have missed the meeting where ccp asked for a way for small gangs to impact sov. i understood the context. i just find the idea stupid and thought the proposal was bad. part of the challenge of conquering space is putting together the forces to do it. if you lack the capability to acheive step one why should you be able to scratch a dent in sovreign space? you are not entitled by virtue of the subscription fee to success in conquerable space. all you are entitled to is the opportunity and a semi level playing field to compete with the rest of the subscribers.i also agree with the other poster and have said so repeatedly both in csm meetings and in iceland. in a lot of cases your opportunities for small gang warfare with an impact are there. you simply aren't doing it."
"if the servers could handle all the people brought to a fight then what you are saying makes would be ok. but if 50 people come to fight 150 at a tower, nobody is going to deny that when lag hits, every single time, without fail the side with the moar pilots avaible will win because they will have a higher number playing and not desynched. the primary reason sov should be looked at is because you have to shoot for long periods of time, large numbers of pilots = lag, and sitting around or being desynched and lagged out is no fun. in the end this is a game and if the core mechanic only suites the masochistic thats not really a game then is it? small gangs should have as much viability to affect game politics as large gangs. balancing the desires of mega alliances while providing interesting content to smaller alliances is no different than any other aspect of the game. just cause you can befriend 10000 people doesn't make your subscription any moar important or game play experience any moar specialthe other side is that, just because a lot of people can get togther doesn't give them the right, any more than the small,"
"the ccp-csm minutes \"0.0 sovereignty issues\""
"fyi, you'll have one hell of a time trying to convince a goon of the correctness of that last part.as for what you're trying to say at first, i think that can just be called off as plain wrong, if what you're talking about is game politics on a large scale. small scale? yes. maybe. we want the smaller corporations to be able to perhaps chip away at some larger entity with planning and cleverness and opportunity. and you should implement mechanics that allow even small companies to claim ground, if they've got the balls and the strength to do it.but this does not change the fact that most people don't. and that in the face of the monster-alliances, most everyone will back out at even a hint of retaliation. perhaps most of all because it's so damn easy in the game to find out just who did what and where and when. and where to find them.changing the last part of the equation, that the alliances might have a harder time to track and punish certain offenders, if they are smart enough, will probably be a more realistic turn. yet still, nothing should really take away the power of a big alliance, presuming that they can co-ordinate and organize well enough.anyway, to me this mostly just points out that you need to think past politics mostly, and introduce some new sort of tactics or entity; small, hard-core gangs and strike forces that operate independently and without attackable points or assets to lose, being paid off by mother/contractor corporations... and that's quite achievable with the current game mechanics.if there's anything that might upset skirmishing warfare as it's seen in eve, it's the ability to restrict the access to space, via 'lockable' gates that have to be hacked or circumvented. and i think that this is an idea that should be clarified and brought attention to..."
"yes actually it does and it always will. there will never be a mechanic that can change that truth. you may not like it. i may not like it. but bigger will always be better and there is no way to change that and still present anything remotely resembling a \"sandbox\"."
"i didn't write the notes. this is actually in some ways contrary to what was actually said."
"well the discrepancy between the published minutes and your memory aside, this was the context of the proposal, clearly outlined at the start."
"quite true, but... shouldn't it depend on the situation? sometimes, a level of autonomy and self-control, and most of all of inconspicuousness and the lack of having to worry about retaliation, is greatly favorable to a massive front and assets that are easy to strike at.the two reasons this is not the case in eve is because 1 you really need a dread or two if you want to incur some palpable losses, and 2 because it's damn easy finding out who executed a certain attack, and tracking them down. both reasons aren't really in line with real life..."
"funny, that sounds almost exactly like what i was saying wrt to carriers."
"a goon in the csm... this is why the ccp will never take this council seriously.if you want ccp to truely listen to the csm, then goonswarm needs to be removed from it.if they say they exist to destroy the game and that in order to win eve is to get players to quit the game, what makes you think anything that comes from them is in your best interest??"
"wow could you link me that? i've always wanted to see where we announced that this is our \"official position on eve\".or even more simply, eve can be won?"
"just ask your queen bee."
"there is even more than one goon in csm...."
"credibility. lost. until you link your claim."
"topics like this one shows that goonswarm member shouldnt be a csm delegate"
"1 nothing strange about it. it should be obvious i crafted those two sentences for just that effect and to make a point.2 you still have not made a reply. no more than you did in the thread you linked post 126 of this thread. you claim i \"don't have enough experience or skill to figure it out\". you claim to have that experience and skill. you claim to be in possession of proof to your claims. i claim no such proof exists. when asked to provide that proof, you don't even offer a reason for not doing so.3 conclusion: there is no proof of your claims. otherwise you'd post the proof, if for no other reason than to discredit me. this means your your credibility just went down in a big flushing sound and all you've been doing is blowing smoke out your keester. \"seems like a pretty straightforward conclusion\".windjammerp.s. when you swim in shark infested waters, you should take care not to cut yourself with your own knife."
"i apologize for attempting to hijack this thread, but i would like to talk about carriers and how to properly give them a more defined role.not to say limited. i have no problem if they're effective. i'd like them not to be the cornerstone of a fleet. to accomplish this, there are a few things that need to be fixed.1 make the single-ship-type rr circle harder to do without making sacrifices. repper modules can take up more slots. make a reason to go into triage without instantly entering the dread arena of conflict without offering any useful repair.2 more types of fighters with different accuracies instead of the omni-fighter we have now. one with bs tier gunnery. one with cruiser tier. this will force carriers to choose where on the food chain they will feed and to have a more focused fitting.3 drone control units get less cpu requirement and more are required to maximize self-drone deployment capability.4 give carriers more tools for shepherding a group of ships who are carrying fighters, placing them more squarely in the role of a massive fleet-support ship that vastly increases the capabilities of the ship it's supporting.specific changes: vastly decrease the stats of rr's. increase their cycle speed and make them dish out smaller, faster repairs. give triage a huge bonus to repair speed and amount, but with the ability to move on grid. inability to repair other carriers in triage. two types of fighters with the same bandwidth requirements. allow carriers to assign fighters while in triage. make drone control units have more effect while in triage and increase the bonuses to rr's.in a utopia of feature requests, i'd ask for instead of smaller reppers, a module that raises the resists of targeted friendly sub-cap ships when in triage. just like pos's use stront to make themselves invulnerable, carrier stront is lathered onto the targeted ships and absorbs much of the energy of attacks.utopian goal:a carrier triage's while flying around as the overlord of a group of bs's, giving them huge damage buffs via fighters and huge logistics support. the carrier adds about 2k dps via deployed fighters and can repair an additional massive amount of dps. carriers can't act to full effect as solo ships compared to what they can add to groups of battleships and cruisers."
"exactly. nobody should listen to either of us until we're willing to prove ourselves. i'm glad you agree that you're just as full of **** as i am."
"is it even on the agenda?"
"why a new forum? to give you someplace to spam in, apparently."
"it has become obvious that ccp is in the process of taking this game in a whole new direction. changes to nanos and suicide ganking might have been called for to some extent, but the way ccp has gone about it is completely contrary to everything they have stated in the past. it is almost as if all the old devs have moved over to something else and a totally new crew has taken over, a crew with an intent to make the game more main stream. this worries me. i play this game because it is a niche game, because it is a sandbox and because it is a pvp game. is ccp now working on removing that niche? it certainly seems that way. i don't request any changes in the game here. i would simply like ccp to state their future aspirations with the game. i don't wanna hear details about fluff like ambulation and other crap, but what the vision is for the game. is is to remain a pvp game? is it going main stream? what will ccp do to increase pvp? will anything be done to reduce blobbing? will anything be done to boost piracy? i just want answers so that i can decide wether or not to invest more of my time in a game i used to love."
"i agree, to me it seems like ccp is intentionally trying to spoil this game"
"would like to hear something about the direction this game is going so i can decide if its worth my time. its sad when the last mmorpg that tried to be different caves in."
"i'll cancel when we get 40 man raids with purple loot. but until then i too would like some sort of state of the union to the player base with ccps vision for the future of eve and where they want to truly take the game over the next 1 to 2 years. as it is right now ccp is very vague and unclear in what they are trying to accomplish. we can tell they have something in mind but we don't know exactly what it is they are trying to do and what they might do in the future. i'm concerned about how far ccp is going to go with all of these carebear buffs."
"they'd skirt around the question if asked anyway but it's worth a try."
"right now i'm just incredibly disappointed by ccp as these changes are the complete opposite of what i have heard of ccp's vision for eve. and that vision was why eve is the only mmorpg that i play."
"yea, they said they wanted to reduce blobbing - nano nerf is the opposite of this, and they actually said they didnt want to make empire completely safe, and again they are going in the wrong direction."
"i think the significant number of posts concerning factional warfare gives a good insight into the dirrection they want to take the game and it's pretty similiar to what they have always said.they want null sec to be the pvp endgame and have people shooting each other in the face. things that increase combat or encourage people into low/null sec are a general goal.yes they are looking into the nano and wardec systems, but they are looking into them with the in theory at least goal of increasing fighting. the perceived problem with both of these aspects is they encourage not combat.i do not see that much of a change in what they have been saying. i think they have been somewhat floored by discovering that half their player base never leaves hi-sec though so perhaps they are trying to get their barings there."
"read the latest dev blog, then respond again. thanks in advance.here it is"
"csm, anyone?"
"wow. while it may make the criminal justice system more realistic, it is interesting what effect this will have. i'm not sure if i'm really worried about it though, except that this does give afk and macro miners more protection. there really should be a 'taskforce' for that as well."
"the irony here is that was posted by a dev with the name: fear"
"making part of me cling to the thought that it might all be just an evil prank. that would be the eve devs we used to know."
"but they are doing the complete opposite with recent proposed changes."
"i guess what it boils down to is, how many people play the game for the sandbox, and how many play the game in spite of it?i think nekopyat hit the nail on the head by saying that ccp have been floored by how many of the player base are high sec huggers."
"the problem isn't the penalties imposed for killing people in hi-sec space outside of a concord sanctioned war, but rather that people can totally avoid wars.i don't care if joe schmoe the solo carebear wants to live in an npc corp and carebear his heart out, and i don't really have any desire to see him blown to bits for lulz.unfortunately npc corps are abused by players and organisation who want to protect what should be legitimately targetable parts of their gameplay, which ultimate upsets the balance of pvp, especially when it comes to logistics, resupply, and money earning.npc corps need to be revised in some way.i am all for npc corp protection, and even bonuses, but not immunity.keep starter npc corps as they are, but create new npc corps which provide an advantage to joining them inline with the rp backstory, and let those corps and factions provide npc help to their members - but allow them to be war-dec'd at a high cost.if players in npc corps lived in a little solo bubble with no possible interaction with other players, then i could care less if they were totally immune from any form of attack - but they don't live in a bubble, even if they think they do, and that needs to be taken in to consideration when making any changes to rules of engagement."
"loving the changes, all of them. guys with good standings barely getting a slap on the wrist for wasting a fraghag in low sec, should've been in since -03. what took you so long ccp?about the npc corporations, they should be linked to fw and the militas there tasked with their protection, opening them up as targets for the other militias."
"thats kinda the reason behind this thread. if they want to cater to the carebears, thats fine. but then i hope ccp stops lying to my face and tells me their plans have changed so i can stop wasting my time on something i wont like."
"quite.please take your gloating or whining to other threads. this is a request for clarification from ccp."
"not supported."
"so you don't want a clarification from ccp? boy, you're smrt."
"pretty much."
"i think its just a re-balance. look at eve... its far too lopsided. too many muppets doing the same thing over and over and over and over. time's change... eve needs a change. they are stirring the pot and letting things resettle into a new environment. we all adapted before. don't feel like you can't adapt again.it doesn't worry me at all... they are doing some housecleaning. too many cockroaches have accumulated. time to use the bug bombs."
"then why are they only exterminating the roaches in the kitchen while throwing crumbs to the roaches in the bathroom?i'm good at this analology thing, ain't i?"
"because they are tossing out new interesting crumbs, in new interesting areas, to try and entice new interesting experiences."
"i'd like to know too.but i aint spending rl cash or isk on a sub thats gonna be wasted waiting to find out."
"but still catering to only one particular kind of cockroach.**** analogies.what ccp is doing is catering only to one play style. while pvp gets nerf after nerf, particular nonconsentual pvp of which piracy is a part, high sec becomes increasingly safer. i want a clarification from ccp if their intention is to continue this trend. if it is, i will have to re-evaluate my decision to renew my subscribtion, because i don't want to play that game."
"clarification on what? i read all of the dev blogs, every article/interview with ccp i can find, watch all of the fanfest video's and read every last word in every issue of eon. it's all there for the smart person to figure out, you just have to pay attention."
"agreed. it's ccp's game and they can take it in whatever direction they want. i would just like a clear statement of that direction."
"because if they are going to cave in to whiney carebears like you, i want them to tell me to my face. it's such a complete about-face that i'm having trouble believing it.other than that, you are an alt who does not support a request from another person for ccp to clarify their stance on certain things. that makes you pretty stupid. it's amazing how 99% of the proponents of this last nerf are alts. makes you wonder."
"you know, if hi-sec is supposed to be the nursery grounds where players can learn the interface and practice pvp in safety... ok fine, that's fine. it's not what i'd prefer, but it would at least be some kind of coherent architecture. but in that case, hi-sec should have much lower possible rewards than lo-sec/0.0.it makes no sense for the safest space to be be the most profitable."
"edit: duplicate.why don't ccp fix their forums rather than mess with the game?"
"yeah never mind all the inference, interpretation and exegesis. what about a clear, unambiguous statement that we can refer to when making plans or giving advice or deciding whether we want to stay? if you know of one such,, please link to it in this thread instead of making condescending but content-free remarks."
"first, you know nothing of my play style to call me a carebear though i could really care less what you think. and second....oh, the irony! me? whining? pot calling the kettle black here...also, this isn't an alt...i don't have an alt."
"none of that is required for you to make your decision. it's simple, if you enjoy playing eve, then stay. if you don't, then leave. it's very simple and requires no outside input."
"i support this thread, it is somewhat similar to mine below:"
"then gtfo of this thread kthxplz"
"yes thanks for that advice, captain obvious. it's the future direction of this game i'm asking about."
"yes - i too would like to know what direction eve will be taking. if it is becoming a carebear game like wow, i won't nescesarilly quit, but i might just make a change of career. maybe into l4 missions so i can farm billions of isk a week, then once i have enough, i can use it to buy a few mining characters - have them farming isk for gtc's in perfect safety, while i go around suiciding miners with faction fitted ships"
"all the changes reported lately are crap"
"the only nerfs i see are re-balances to loopholes and exploits that have been abused and overused for too long. someone mentioned having npc corps redone to be war deccable... i find that probably opening up the bottle to way more abuse than good. it would only lead to people wanting to move their goods to resort to npc corp hopping and maybe even creating alt after alt. so what if people are safe, i could care less. they are still never 100% safe unless they sit in a station all day.here's an idea... if you want to implement npc corp war decs, then perhaps those deccing the war would also have to deal with npc ships. not to mention, losing docking privileges at their stations"
"fine. i'll happily take on the perkone ships i see."
"i agree with this completely. and while i think that it's a bit extreme to say that pvp is being nerfed... well...anyway, people who want to **** with others will always come up with new and curious solutions. like smartbombing ravens/geddons, new approaches to pvp that do not involve just nanoing..."
"i don't think the game is going in a new direction at all, i think it's just being fleshed out a bit more, gaps filled in, bridges built.one of eve's biggest problems is its very steep learning curve. factional warfare, and the upcoming security changes and nano-nerf, all make it easier for beginning and intermediate players to learn to play better in relative but not complete safety and with a little more structure, which they need. the huge 0.0 sandbox, which is what makes eve unique, is still the endgame.no, it's not perfect, and more tweaks are surely on the way. 0.0 should be more desirable, for example, as has been suggested many times. let's not get our panties in a twist though."
"but the increasing safety of hi-sec is not being matched with decreased rewards. if hi-sec is supposed to be eve with training wheels on, then it shouldn't have +20 l4 agents. tbh, hi-sec should top out with +0q l3 agents - and i say this as someone who runs missions in hi-sec.what we have is a situation where players can accumulate vast sums in near absolute safety. i speak from personal knowledge, because i've done it. leave an alliance, spend a couple of weeks l4 missioning while seeking for a new corp, make enough isk to buy and fit a dread and enough lp for a spare cnr - just in case.seriously, i have a spare faction battleship, gained just from the lp i made while spending a few days working up the isk to pvp for a month or two. with essentially zero risk. and zero competition the biggest player-caused problem is that ammo is kind expensive... but not quite expensive enough to go 5 jumps to buy it at regional average.i would be interested to hear your case that the above is balanced, or good for the game.market trading is a little different - mess up and you can lose your isk. i have no issues with that."
"the only issue i see if ccp enforcing teamwork.wait... aren't we playing a massive multi player role playing game?"
"lol... wait a second... you are talking about faction war, right? it's already there special npc corps, player not protected in empire space, special story line and rewards... hmm, that sounds awfully familiar"
"low sec is very unsafe... it is impossible to enter low sec system in a battleship, it is impossible to undock a battleship...pvp players pirates rip off carebears who actually create the wealth... if there are no carebears there will be no such thing as profit from pvp.pvp is about destruction of assets... carebarism is about creation of assets. pvp is not fun when you have no means to support it"
"eve is not as black and white as you think it is. there are some of us who will gladly fill the production void left by carebears if you chose not to produce. there are 0.0 producers in every alliance making a profit with space around them that has no consequences to blowing someone else up."
"i would like to see the local to go away. local currently is too much of an easy tell its stupid. op, you say you are a real bad ass, and most pirates like your self, which by your own definition, are the true decent criminals. who are these exactly? i am sorry but i don't know how many times i jumped into a system and every target to be had scurries like roaches when you flip on the light. the only ones clinging to the local are the ones that have supposedly lost the use of bacon type programs. and depend on it for intel to save there own ass. now with respect to continually hitting the scan button. i agree it sucks. but maybe we can give more tools to the pilot to try to pinpoint targets."
"i wish local would disappear and my ship would tell me when a ship got within 2 au of me.example:me: *hums*me: *whistles* computer: danger will robinson dangerme: o shi-*pirate warps in**i make an attempt to warp out*"
"sensors, scanners, whatever...none of them really matter when it comes to a \"chat room\".and until ccp actually comes right out and says \"local is the in-game manifestation of your hailing frequencies, and chatting is truly ship-to-ship communication\" then it doesn't matter...people are exploiting local, plain and simple. they are looking to see what familiar faces are in the system, and then hunting down the faces that aren't familiar.and the simplest solution is... make local a \"recent speakers\" channel instead. then the only faces that will even show up are the ones that spoke in the last few minutes, which spies shouldn't be too chatty.as for finding people nearby... everyone still has an onboard scanner, right? what with a range and direction selection?"
"we need local otherwise we would hardly get any fights."
"what about:- get rid of local in lowsec makes piewats happy while boost pve in low- keep it in 0.0 as an intelligence tool and get things like corp/alliance tickers in there for even faster scoutingor:- everyone who is in a fleet is shown, everyone who's not in a fleet is hidden by default"
"behind this one hundred and twenty percent."
"that sounds nice and all but who's dollar is being donated to charity?"
"well i guess that depends on if one believes isk are indeed a form of 'virtual' asset, in the sense that they have actual value outside of eve. if you do think they meet that criteria, then it is the people whom donate isk's dollar, and ccp is acting as an exchange or go between to convert isk to usd or some other form of cash. but if you don't, then it is ccp's dollar that is getting donated.whole thing realistically is a bit of a grey area. as even though ccp does have it that the trading of isk for 'real' world cash is against the eula, and that by several legal mechanics they do own all isk anyhow. but the fact that a black market exist for cash to isk exchanging also establishes that there is a real world value for it as people are willing to trade some form of currency for them at an established rate. also, the exchanging of utc bought with cash for isk also establishes a 'real' world value by proxy of the relation of utc price, to isk trade."
"yay now the make a wish foundation can give out free titans =2 issues1. a cap on how much, don't want ccp going bankrupt2. must be legitimate fund ccp/your beer fund are not legitimate"
"basically the isk fund players donate to could be used to purchas gtcs, and you'd just need ccp's blessing to re-sell those gtcs through the eve store or something for cash.it'd be great publicity for ccp to do this too."
"isk goes to ccp charity account. charity account goes on forums, buys gtcs with isk. ccp charity account does not activate gtcs, but instead donates their cash equivalent to charity. isk moves from donors to gtc sellers, money moves from gtc sellers to charity. it's a bit complex, but all well-ordered."
"so basically, the result is ccp gives $$$ to charity? edit: the idea is that you're giving isk which belong to ccp, not you to ccp to give up $$$ which also belong to ccp away to a charity?i wonder if you considered the 'practicality' factor. my bet is that someone at ccp is having a chuckle, but i've been wrong before."
"yes, if you say isk have no real world cash value, then it is that cut and dry.however, even though the eula does state that it is illegal to trade isk for 'real' currency, even ccp have to admit that a isk in sense of a market where there is demand that will pay with cash, that isk do have some though extremely low real world value. as does any popular mmo's in game currency, resources, and items.virtual assets is a very immature field of economics, with a lot of complexities to still be exactly looked at. so it will no doubt take a little figuring out to establish just what sort of value a 'contribution' of isk actually does have, and how stable it really is.as for your point of ccp owning all isk, well as an example the united states federal reserve, a quasi private and public institution, owns all the u.s. currency printed through the u.s. treasury system. yet the united states government makes it's citizens pay it in usd for taxes, etc, etc. at a simple look it would basically be saying that the united states prints money for citizens to earn, so that it may partially collect it at a later date. but it is not nearly that simple, which would arguably also be the case here. which is why i'd think it be great for the csm to suggest it to ccp, so it could be examined further."
"been trying to get my head around this...sequence of events would be:player a buys a gtc from ccp.player a puts it on the market for however many isk.players b-z donate enough isk to an in game rep of the charity in questionccp 'pays' player a the isk asked for.ccp does not activate the card but renders it not activateable so player a cannot re sellccp donates some/all of the cash they gathered from the original sale of the card to player a, to the charity involved.winners/losersplayer a is ahead - he has successfully converted his rl dollars into isk, which was the whole point of it as far as he is concerned.players b-z are ahead, as they have a warm fuzzy feeling.ccp are ahead, as they have received positive pr and removed a gtc from circulation without having to support the bandwidth etc required in game.ccp are ahead as they now have a tax write-off assuming laws in iceland regarding corporate charitable donations are similar to elsewhere.ccp are down because aside from the nominal saving of not needing to provide bandwidth and other support for the gtc user and also the amount of possible tax offsetting from the charitable donation, they have not made a profit on the card but they've not made a loss either!.i can see this working, provided that ccp buys the gtc from a player who has already bought one with rl cash - that way they are not just removing the monies from their bottom line which they would be under a simpler model of the above process removing player a from the equation.disclaimer: i'm blonde. the above may be complete hogwash :"
"no, that is pretty much as i saw it to. but i also wouldn't be surprised if someone has/could think of a better solution."
"it is an interesting concept but several things need to be adressed.1. why doesn't ccp make isk a real money economy game such as entropia. if any mmo besides entropia has the economy to do it eve does. of course they would need to review the entire way their economy is setup to do so because there will always have to be more losers then winners in terms of holding large quantities of isk [or could just have something like every 1 billion = 10 usd] so even say ebank were to liquidate the entire stock would only get 10,000 ish usd assuming they have 1 trillion isk at the time.2. barring a rmt economy perhaps you should consider something along the lines of players donating gtcs instead of isk. this will make things much smoother since a player can buy a gtc from another player [who bought it with cash] and then say have an option on your account page to donate gtc to charity. 3. unequal donations. if we assume that a direct gtc donation vs an isk donation is desirable then the gtcs usd worth at purchase should not be donated. instead a portion should be donated such as what you'll see on tv where x amount of every dollar is donated. this means that ccp isn't cutting a grey on donated gtcs but instead donating say 50% of the usd value to charity."
"no, the result is isk buyers are giving their $$$ to charity instead of it going to paying another player's subscription fees. other than admin fees, it doesn't cost ccp a penny."
"i would actually mine at times just to do this!"
"nothing bad about this.ccp show us how big your heart is!!!"
"i'm speeking about discussion what goin on forums for the very tolong time: removing local chat.give playres one week of experiance without local chat  to all of them who for and aganst it.i beleave it will be not much hard work to implement just some simple changes to make it posseble:1make pilots only visible in local once they speek.2 incrase ship scaners to maximum range of systems3 automated warning alert once one of the vessels get in radius of 5au from your vessel without giving more intel on ship type and standings  thats why you have scaner for4 sit back and watch if thats what players realy whant experiance in game and after one week change it back and start resiving feedback"
"i dont get it"
"i did hit enter before i writed text."
"hm. a little unrefined, but this suggestion is worth a try."
"not a bad idea tbh."
"local needs a nerf, so no local intel... it only matters how to do this"
"i like it when arguments always come down to some implants someone bought."
"mmmm why do you wana nerf the bubble soo much? its not overpowered at all most ships can go the 20km in under 2 min unless you have a freighter or cap bubbled.... dictors have already been ****d to death by the nerf bat... my saber dosnt have much for dps or much for speed any more since they nerf'd it already.... what they should do is boost there speed back to where they use to be... its a destroyer class ship ment for killin frigs and stuff so why nerf it more then it already is?"
"i understand that many like the nos/nuet increase but would a drone and ship bonus work well enough?a reduction in the sig radius of both the ship and the drones would make the ship a lot better and increase the tank without changing the basic function of the ship. the pilgram would take less damage and would be harder to target, making it and its drones more effective.i understand that many think the nos/nuet is the way to go but if they introduce any modules down the line that are strong on normal ships then the pilgram will make them unbalanced and you risk goin to bat with the nerf stick again, something i believe most would like to avoid.but change the basic damage it takes and adding to the longevity of the drones would make it very much more effective.just my opinion though."
"pilgrim needs a range bonus, i agree.also, i can get a rapier to 200dps, a 150dps drone damage bonus is good enough. you can actually leave that one alone and just give the pilgi the range bonus it tbh needs to get inline with the rest of the recons..."
"since the new insurance changes are much lauded by the carebear community, ccp how about giving back something to the pvper's/gankers that make eve so great?let's remove insurance payouts on self destructs too. that way, ppl who self destruct instead of engage in a fight will now have to think twice.no insurance companies pay you if you deliberately crash your car into something, afterall."
"agreed. at least has the merit of coherence.my only problem with this idea is that it doesn't go far enough. if we're having realistic insurance in eve, let's make it actually realistic."
"i support this as well, though i understand why it's in the game. they made it this way so that when you get locked into place by a griefer who has absolutely no intention of killing you, you can escape without an unfair penalty because of some griefer's actions."
"if insurance is going to be realistic, it should be removed entirelly, but this is a good first step."
"so how does removing it entirely make it realistic?no, if it is to be realistic, then it needs to be turned over to player corporations to offer or not on the market."
"it's unrealistic in its current implementation. that was my point. it should either cover everything and be just a game mechanic like it used to be, or it should be completely realistic and function like a rl business."
"agreed"
"/signedalso remove insurance from any global criminals in 0.5 - 1.0 system only makes sense and will make gankers think twice."
"agreed, self destruct should not give insurance payout."
"great idea. this is a no brainer."
"agree"
"agreed"
"negative, you will have your friend blow up the ship to get money back! self destruct is mostly used in non combat situation in order to return part of the isk... blowing the ship up often gives more money than selling it on the secondary market."
"stop whining and get more dps."
"yes i support this change. i would be glad to tackle people who have no way to kill me and i have no way to kill them unless they log off and just hold them there for hours as i taunt them in local. this would be totally awesome."
"well.. i did.. it means most have given up on mining."
"make that twoi would say increase the cargohold, but don't remove haulers entirely.i use drones, the rats only got into my armour once, and that was because i was disconnected, and i guess they shot as i auto-warped off.i wouldn't mind a reduction here, for obvious profit-generating reasons.when i rat, i tend to do it in a ship equipped to rat, the mining barges are not really equipped to rat. a small boost here would not be unwelcome.ab"
"it was suggested that i post the folowing suggestions in this forum for discussion. the original thread is here. my proposition is to ensure that living in hi-sec never makes anyone rich. simple as that.1. make all asteroids in hi-sec only drop veldspar. ever. period.2. make reprocessed modules yield primarily trit, with only traces of pye, mex, iso and nox as in .01% or less combined, and never yield the rarer resources.3. make all agents in 0.7 and higher space l2 or lower, agents in 0.5 to 0.6 l3 and lower. no l4 or l5 agents should exist in hi-sec space. this system will allow folks who simply cannot stand pvp in any form to keep plugging away in hi-sec, and now that they're a bit safer their isks should theoretically last them longer. they won't, however, have as huge an effect on the market without accepting some risk.this will also encourage more folks to get out in low-sec aside from fw activities for higher profits. this will make the pirates happy, and it will train these intrepid souls in the fine art of survival.additional suggestion:introduce a chance of concord response in hi-sec. base this chance on the system's security status expressed as a percentile i.e. 1.0 = 100%, 0.52 = 52%. increase the likelihood of response by system status/10 per additional aggressor past the first i.e. 1 adidional aggressor in a 0.5 system = +5% chance of concord response.this will make the transition to low-sec more gradual and would make vastly more logical sense. it will also encourage hi-sec pirates to field cheap ships more easily defended against by newer, less experienced players and discourage large pirate fleets in hi-sec.the difference between participant's security status could even be factored in as required. this should prevent folks just switching to l3 missions to compensate, as the areas where l3 agents will be available will involve some risk."
"i think you might be surprised if indeed l4 agents were moved to low sec, how popular l3 agents would become.while some l4 runners would move to low sec, i bet just as many or more would stay in high sec and run the l3."
"edited additional post to reflect concerns over a simple switch to l3 missions."
"definately would make the game better and more interesting."
"supported - this would solve the macro problems somewhat too."
"an interesting an idea. i think some fundamental changes to missions...nerf bounty, boost isk/lp rewards for missions, in addition to your idea would be great.and to those who say that people will just grind level 3's: .6 and .5 sec space is almost always adjacent to lowsec."
"thats fine as it still helps balance the game."
"i think your idea is bad simply because it would close the game for new players. it would be bad for ccp no new subsribers and it would negatively reflect player base. first of all, many players who live only in high-sec would leave the game permanently and only minority would move to low-sec or 0.0. second, people leave the game all the time because they are bored, just got married, got a new job or for any other reason and new people start playing the game all the time. put yourself in a position of a totaly new player who don't know what the hell is that ecm burst for and than add the fact that he'll deal with characters several months or years old with billions in their wallets, t2 ships, god knows how many millions of skillpoints and months or years of experience. and then, on top of that, add low possibilities of decent isk making in high-sec, prices of ships and modules controled by old playes and skill prices for capital ships that new players could only dream of. it would be discouraging, wouldn't it."
"if people are running l4 agents they're not that new."
"omg, another \"i want to gank noobs in ravens/retrievers\""
"oh yes. even though i haven't done any pirating in about 9 months, all i want to do is gank noobs in ravens sigh.1 survival in lowsec/0.0 has nothing to do with sp. it's about intelligence and experience which you only get by living there.2 if you're running level 4 missions, you're not new. no one suggested that 2-day old osprey miners make too much, no one suggested that level 1 kill mission runners make too much. it's the experienced, skilled players that are able to farm isk all day with no risk whatosever. i've said it before; exploration is almost a perfect model of what missions/mining should be. decent money in hisec not enough to finance a lot of expensive ****, but enough to subsist, much better money in lowsec, and a bit better than that in 0.0."
"erm no.so all roids in empire give trit, all mods give trit with the extreamly low chance of getting something else.basicly asking for empire agents to be to lvl2 and lvl3 in lowsec lvl4+5 in 0.0and what do you think the market would do? since anything other then trit would need to be hauled into highsec from low/0.0, gatecamps would be in force 23/7 blobing would rise to unheard of levelsallow me to put it a diffrent way:remove npc rats from 0.0 space.drop moon mining down to 1/100 of current levelsremove agents from lowsec and 0.0remove plex's from lowsec and 0.0remove the ability to build ships in lowsec or 0.0 except super capital class.now look, i've just asked for almost everything i can think of that would make you isk at some rate in 0.0.. do you like it ?i'm still shocked you can't see the outcome of this tbh, empire space isn't just pvp scaredycats, or urgh blobites. a lot of players in empire help players in 0.0 not just farm missions."
"zydrine/megacyte has to be hauled into hisec from 0.0 at least the majority of it and i don't see these mystical 24/7 camps on the lowsec/hisec border systems. they're there, but not that often. besides, if a corp was active in lowsec , then they almost definitely have a combat wing which they could use to contest some of these camps. the sky is falling...erm no"
"your looking at now, try to look if these changes were to come into play.atm some stuff is hauled from 0.0 to hisec, with this everything would be and since with these changes the market in empire would be controled by lets face it alliances and how much stuff is hauled into highsec space, gatecamps would logicaly rise, as more and more people will try to get higer end mins into highsec. hell i'll gatecamp 23/7 for how much even a t1 hauler full of even scordite would fetch on empire market after this.after the mass buying, the empire market would dry up and be fully under 0.0 and lowsec players control, prices would rise as empire corps would no longer be able to mine in empire or refine loot for ore to build ships. something does need looking at, but this is just way to stupid to even think about.what hes asking is basicly shut down highsec and make it the ***** of lowsec and 0.0 players."
"this is a very bad idea, i am 3 years old and i can't make enough money to get a ship for pvp.with current low sec gate camps heavy interdictors venturing into low sec is a joke... 0.0 is blocked out... there is no place to go for many people.less money isk means that the game will be slow... and the pirates will be rich.do not do this... awful idea"
"really? and you think that the 0.0/lowsec corps are just going to stand by and let you blow up t1 industrals full of loot? **** no. they'll get jump freighters, they'll use blockade runners which are immune to lowsec camps when properly fitted btw or they'll just get some guys together and blow through your camp. why do you think mining individuals/corps are a bunch of mindless drones who don't know how to do anything? it's not less money, it's less money for people in hisec. if you can't get into lowsec then you're doing it wrong, i can and do move in and out of lowsec constantly."
"i myself do lvl4 missions currently. i play the game for almost a year now and still don't have a clue about pvp. why? because i haven't yet accumulated enough isk to realy enjoy pvp. i'm playing that long and have a little more than 700 mil in my wallet because of the real life obligations mostly - everyone have a real life, right. i admit that i'm tired of all this mining/mission running/ratting s**t who wouldn't be after all and want to get into pvp, but i simply feel i don't yet have enough isk to enjoy it and fear that i would be forced to return to my current game style after a while. well, when i get to pvp i want to stay in pvp. period! the way i see it, much more players will move to 0.0 and get into pvp if they only have a chance to fill their wallets beforre doing so, because in the first month or two depending on how fast one can learn in 0.0 they will lose great ammount of isk due to inexperience.giving new players a chance to earn decent isk in high-sec will increase the number of pvpers, because after a while mining/mission running really gets boring.after all, i am considering to sell this char for isk, create a new one and get into pvp right away. the skills are not the main problem if you play smart, but one sure needs isk and gaming experience to be a successful pvper."
"no i expect them to guard teh gate ie camp it with a large force and thus +blobbing.just think of all them mission setup ships jumping in, all them killmails and loots.. looks tasty no?correct, and erm.. who would be in control of the market for my new ships.. oh look the people in charge of teh gate, because the empire market is controlled by them, as empire players will be unable to build more.thank you for proving my points even if i knew you didn't mean to.lowsec and 0.0 corps will control the market in empire. one way or another no matter how you look at it.i agree something needs to be done, this isn't it."
"i'm not the goon, you are."
"you are not supposed to be docked all the time! stop inventing new ideas to not undock!"
"bumb for a good idea"
"i think ur idea has to be the best just to disapointing ccp dnt listen to the players even though we r smarter than them even if we havent or have got the degreese to say we have past the course or crap like that lol :d"
"first of no one cares that people use mwd's for close range there fitted so we can catch up to more faster ships and get to snipers easyeir i for one dont want to fit a ab and go like 200 m/s or less to get to a sniper or something else and second the complaints were about nano's not close rang so y bring close range ships into this? and what about ships like diemos that gets bonuses to mwd u might as well get ride of that bonus since the scram will get rid of it and it very rare u see any nano/inty get in range of 10km for a web so how will a 7,500km scram with the effect of turning mwd's of affect nano's and they still have base speed of wat 200-300 m/s and they nanos r sure to carry a scram incase they r stupid to get cought in one.and drones allready get destroyed by nanoers so y boost them to catch the nano's since there just going to be destroyed anyway"
"moar support! :"
"current situationbounty hunting as a profession is all but nonexistent, i for one think in a game like eve this should be a viable and fun profession.the current system it very open to exploitation as you can see how much is on your head and get a friend to kill you and share the isk gained and there is no way to make contract killings.my proposalkill rights/bounty systems need changed1. currently if you are killed by someone outside of 0.0 you get kill rights where you can kill them on sight without concord intervention, whereas many times if you have been killed in the first place its because you lack the ships/isk/skill to kill the pirate in the first place  this means kill rights from my experience hardly ever get used.my idea  that upon destruction of a civilian ship that a token is generated whether this be in the character sheet or an item doesnt really matter at this point, this token can then be taken to a bounty office and then used to place a bounty on the targets head token must be entered into the bounty office within a certain timeframe otherwise it expires bounties applied to the same person will be added together to make the bounty larger.2.the current bounty system is too transparent, you can see how much you are worth which can lead to killing yourself through various means for the cashmy idea - the current bounty system need to be changed so that players can't see how much is on their head but that they are just wanted3.there is currently no method of contract killing passing your kill rights to others this would make bounty hunting a viable profession.my idea  the bounty office window should be changed so that it does not list the most wanted players but a list of say 10 random bountys with a next arrow to pull up another random 10, these bountys can be accepted like a contract and transfer the kill rights to you for a period of say 3 days in which you have to hunt down and kill they mark otherwise the bounty is returned to the bounty office."
"guess there are some hotter topics than this one. hmmm... ok, never mind. at least i can post my own vote for this one."
"you know, considering how small and easy an application eve is, and how easily it tabs, you can consider this somewhat unnecessary, because you really just have to disable the juke and tab down, and put something on a player in the background."
"shirly yes"
"as a paying customer the quality of service in this game is going down hill, i've had a petition in for 2 days and no reply from the gm's. it might not be a earth shattering problem to them but to someone who is paying for this service, its very frustrating. if this is the way ccp want to treat me then i guess i have only one option left open to me and i have to vote with my wallet.april"
"what did you petition exactly?some petitions take one or two weeks regukarly. e.g. ship losses as far as i heard.edit: wrong forum, btw."
"sorry if its the wrong forum but i didn't know where to put this topic, i looked for a forum to voice my opinion against ccp but could not see one, i put it in here hoping a member of the council will take up the lack of communications between ccp and its paying customers."
"the response time is due to heavy load and prioritization. stuck petitions are handled first.i got a hunch that a lot of petitions not concerning being stuck, are filed as stuck petitons. wasing the gm's time and yours aswell."
"objective: make the economy more stable.means: npcs to sell dynamically-priced, overpowered consumables to rich players.theory: by imitating a player-priced bull market, an npc would raise prices of their inventory based on how fast their product is selling.imagine that the current best booster/cap-booster-charge/ammo/probe/etc is sold for 1x isk.now imagine an npc out in space somewhere was selling something 25%-50% more powerful, but at a minimum of 2x isk of the current best.but that isn't all, as the product sells, that multiplier grows. it grows until fewer and fewer are sold, until none are sold, and then slowly decays.this product is for the rich pilots of new eden, that have so much isk that they don't know what to do with it. this premium advantage comes at a cost to the rich, and is actually a kind of tax rebate for all of eve.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.you see, isk comes into the eve system by bounties, mission rewards, and some other ways. theres no limit to the amount of input. the more npcs killed, the more isk comes into the system.isk exist the system through things like clones, insurance, pos fuel office rentals, industry slots. but these values don't grow with the amount of isk in system, so they aren't very effective at counteracting it upon the super-rich.and that is fine, theres no need to punish the average eve player because some other eve players are fantastically wealthy.but to those that are fantastically wealthy, they are the people that have so much isk that they can control markets. they can buy the rarer necessities at enormous prices, thus keeping the prices high and out of reach of the middle class or newbie players.this is different than simply having wealthy merchants trading bills with other wealthy merchants, however. this would be wealthy merchants burning their bills. the 1,000,000isk they pay per uber-dready-dread-dread-gurista torpedo isn't being moved around the system, its exiting the system.how this would trickle-down benefit all of eve:1 rich people buy the ever-costlier, overpowered consumables.2 isk exits system and is not traded among market tycoons.3 rich people become less rich.4 rich people willing to pay less and less for the items that middle class and newbie players are interested in.5 disparity between what you are willing to pay, and what rich people are willing to pay, leverages out.this would happen very slowly, and you could not see its effect for years probably. but one day, somebody might once again shed a tear over losing a battleship, when the ultra-fat wallets are deflated to within reason."
"forgot a very important part. tiers of luxury:tier 1: 5% better than current best, slowest multiplier growth, fastest multiplier decay.tier 2: 10% better than current best, same deal, faster multiplier growth than the previous tier, slower multiplier decay than the previous tier.tier 3: 15%tier 4: 20%etc etc, the point being that there be a large range of luxury items for the large range of wealthy players, and the amount of isk they're willing to spend on the luxury. the better the consumable tier, the faster the multiplier grows, and the slower the multiplier decays.this is important because it gives them more luxury options for their isk to leave the system and deflate the wealth in eve.and obviously, voting yes for myself."
"i also think its worth mentioning that there are other sides to isk circulation in eve and that this alone doesn't come close to fixing it all, though it the total amount of isk in system, as well as leverage wealth.there are also things like tech 1 ores, moon minerals, datacores, whatever else is a collected commodity.there is potential for those materials to be collected at a greater rate than they are being used. this devalues them.though i believe it would be possible to curb their devaluing in a similar way, only this time nothing to do with npcs.minerals don't have a problem with exiting the system, so to speak. you blow up a ship, minerals leave the system. that happens a lot. though its possible for players to simply not be blown up fast enough to keep up with the materials being collected.so what i mean by similar way of curbing this, is having these materials be useful in a luxury sort of way.consider higher tiers of tech 1 ship recipes. maybe you can take 2 tritanium and make 1 uber-tritanium. maybe you can take 2 uber-tritanium and make 1 uber-uber tritanium. etc etcand then maybe theres an uber-megathron recipe that has 5% more hp and 5% more damage. and an uber-uber-megathron with 10% more hp and 10% more damage.you get what i'm saying.though i believe this would have a much more immediate impact on the economy.and this is not part of this thread's proposal, if i refine this idea, i'll create a new thread. or someone else can, and i'll vote for you."
"the fundamental rule of inflation is that if the effective money supply grows faster than the effective goods supply, inflation will result, and that if the opposite is the case then deflation will result. according to the qen's, the effective goods supply real gup increased by roughly 10% monthly, the money supply was 90 trillion75 trillion of which was in active hands, and the rate of money supply growth is 171 billion per day or 5.13 trillion per month, for the last periods for which we have data. thus, growth rate of m1isk in active hands was 6.8% per month, and growth rate of m2isk in game was 5.7% per month. neither of these matches the growth rate of real gup, and as such deflation of between 3-5% per month is implied, not inflation. this data is well correlated in the four price indices, which, aside from the wildly variable pppi, have been very steadily in the 0% to -5% range for almost every month the last year where we have data. i'm annoyed that the qens stopped, since the data i'm using is rather outdateddec 2007 is the newest, but the best data we have says that deflation is the norm, and inflation is the result almost entirely of dysprosium shortages, especially in the face of the then-new t2 ships in trinity. if dr.eyjog comes out with new data saying that the situation has changed, then i might have reason to support an increase in isk sinks to fight inflationthough even then, perhaps not - inflation is not inherently bad. but until such data is released, i'm going to have to say it's fine as it is.also, your idea for creating a new sink is to cause artificial shortages as a tool for raising prices. kind of ingenious, but thoroughly cruel. besides, this game doesn't need more ways for rich players to pimp themselves out."
"thanks for the informative reply, i sometimes get my verbage mixed up. so this doesn't really fight inflation, it counters wealth disparity over the lifetime of a game, and this helps everyone. not really cruel to anyone imo, people get what they pay for."
"chat windows in eve are terribly nerfed, and i imagine it has something to do with spamming and simply not having looked at the issue.1 - character limit for public chat local, npc corp, none passworded channels is fine. for player corp, private and intel channels, we need to at least triple the character limit.2- copying and pasting \"links\" doesn't work, cause it will paste the code for the link like this: <url=showinfo:1373//161330395>kirishima</url> vagabond <url. make it so that we can directly copy and paste links and it won't be fubared."
"i wish to get a native client too : current cedega'ed implementation works bad with non-latin languages. and, in a cosmos space, framerate on nvidia videocards is too low - looks like some bug in nvidia driver or in wine: then running via wine, launching from console, multiple messages \"fixme:d3d_draw:drawprimitive using software emulation because not all material properties could be tracked\" spamming console. then running \"offical client\", no console, but same low fps. seems there is no problem with ati cards."
"seems that with the latest devblog my concerns have proven themselves legitimate."
"it's really fun to hear a goon talk about 'game-breaking'. but anyway...that there's no reason not to do it doesn't mean you should do it, just because. i mean, have you ever eaten your toenail clippings? it's not unhealthy for you. it probably doesn't even feel or taste that bad. but is it something you'd think of doing just because you can...?"
"i agree that eve is a niche game, but i strongly suspect that the reason there are so many wow clones out there is financial - more people are willing to pay the monthly fee for them.the bottom line is that ccp are a company. companies exist to make money. they can have other goals, but the money-making is the important one - if they fail at that, then there is no more company. i don't know or care actually! if ccp are publicly owned, but whether they are or not there will be money guys somewhere. even if eve is doing very nicely and earning a tidy sum, there will be constant pressure against those holding the vision tm by those holding the cash who can see that making the game more wow-friendly will get them more subscriptions and give them more cash to hold on to. and the ones holding the cash tend to be far more senior. something very similar happened in soe regarding everquest - the ones with the vision tm lasted for a few years but were eventually removed from the equation by the corporate muscle.i would be the first to admit that i am an empire-hugging carebear. if ship customisation was allowed i may as well tie pink ribbons onto my megathron, fly around with alvin and the chipmunks on the stereo, and have a barbie doll as my ship mascot. however... eve needs an dark edge to make it work and i don't think a 'consensual pvp' version of eve would be fun at all, even though i do not pvp at all.however... i don't think that prettier ships and the playing of musical instruments makes eve a less harsh game - you can play the sousaphone all you like but your custom-painted ship can still get blasted to its component atoms the moment it leaves dock. i do think it's important to address scams that are the result of failures in the code e.g. in the real world would you spend $400,000 on a new house if the only details about it you could see are that it's \"detatched, has 3 bedrooms and a nice location\"? unlikely.. scams where the scamee is just being dense and not careful though... those should definitely be fair game."
"i agree 100%eve is getting too fluffyrecent nano changes... ok i can dig that.. it was bit out of hand but nothing any person whit a brain couldnt handle.now the suicide gank thing.... another move to make eve pink and cuddly.i dont want hello kitty online... id like eve online to stay eve online.atm it seems ccp is on the course of making eve easier.... and ppl who have been playing mmos for a while know where this leads.... it leads to a balanced game that noone plays... because its to easy... nothing is rewarding and everything is the same."
"with recent changes it looks like ccp intends to cater only to the carebear crowd so i doubt they listen, but you got my support."
"can't support this, sorry. looks like you are trying to find more noobs, and non-pvpers, to gank.ab"
"qft.i like the characters i play to be unusual and different from the crowd. i don't want to be able to do a slightly toned down version of tasks a, b, c in return for a slightly better ability to do tasks x, y, z. i would prefer to be completely unable to do tasks a, b, c and x, in return for being good at y and the game's best class at z!games where everyone can go everything are monstrously dull. players will always whine about making the game easier, but in the end complexity is the key to subscription retention. the alternatives are that someone pays for 4 or 5 months of an easy game and then gets bored and leaves... or they pay for 2 or more years for a challenging game.we don't play mmos for a quick win and easy goals - that's what single player games are for."
"well i would not say noone will play it wow proves you wrong, but for me at least i cant be arsed with such a mmorpg. singleplayer games do that a lot better."
"doesn't make sense, there are no non-pvpers in this game, just people who are bad at it."
"not sure i agree here. i haven't bothered with rat specific hardeners in.. i have no idea.. i just don't bother with them and do fine in l3 missions in a non-drake battlecruiser. specifically an armor tanked hurricane though it's a rare l3 that even gets through my sheildsadding randomness into the missions would force pve players to pick up some of the skills that pvp people take for granted... flexibility, preparing for the unknown, etc. it would also make them less of an easy mark to any passing pvper who can guess their setup by the wreaks around them."
"fixing bugs is one thing, changing mechanics to make life easier for people who have chosen a 'safe' way of living in high-sec is another. i think the latter is detrimental to the overall spirit of eve, it tells us that the developers want people to be able to avoid pvp all together, that it should be voluntary. once upon a time gateguns and concord were non-existent. we are far away from those days, and the change has always gone in the direction of softening the blow for the people who prefer safety before danger. sure, high-sec is supposed to have high security... but when it becomes so easy on the newbs that live there, and that they still can make plenty of isk there makes for a situation not all too unsimilar to what a certain benjamin franklin said, he who sacrifices essential liberty for security deserves neither.come on! if you want a completely safe pond for newbs, let them have eg. 1.0-systems for the first month of play. but don't keep going in this direction. i implore you."
"against"
"the true pessimist's stance - against the entire universe, no exceptions!edit: +1"
"this would seem to be a stealthy way to nerf invention on these. i am solidly in favor of fixing this."
"you will also find that the energy transfer module copy times have also increased by a factor of 60.yes, nos & energy transfer have gone from 1 min per run to 1 hour for large, and 30m for medium!!thus, this makes inventing them completely impossible, giving the bpo owners the competition free market that was enjoyed prior to the introduction of invention.here's the bug report."
"cause you want the ship bonuses to matter, and promote some dynamism. that's why. so you don't have to make a whole lot of new stuff and adjustments for no reason at all.and, really, it's very much the same thing as loading the focused warp disruption to the warp disruption field generator."
"i think missile defence should be racialcaldari defendersminmatar rapid firing autocanons - rapid fire,poor optimal,good fall off, need few hits to destroy misile, scale hits with rofamar pulse laser- always hits missile, takes longest tiem of all defender systems, uses capgalante blasters - not always hit, poor range, melts missile in 1 hit , better rof than laser but range much shorter"
"because then you have to check market conditions for each shuttle. i would be very happy to just have a shuttle rather than \"racial\" shuttle"
"heaven forbid you should have to do a bit of \"price comparison\"."
"and heaven forbid you should be able to perform a trivial task with a proportionately trivial amount of work. seven mouse clicks nine including assembly and seven key presses to get yourself a rutting shuttle is a lot of moving around./signed."
"put all the shuttle types in the quick access tab thingie and you have 4 clicks to compare them all."
"not supported. i think those who choose to train the learning skills should be rewarded and those who could care less shouldn't have to train them. there is no need to take them out, except to buff those who chose not to train them and now want the advantages provided."
"totally agreed, which is why all players should be given a permanent link into an isk bank with unlimited funds...you know, so they can buy the best ships right off the bat and enjoy the fun from day one!/sarcasm"
"no reinforcement timers on my ships darius and they aren't indestructible either. i also don't get to deny my enemies the use of capital ships through the deployment of 7m isk module with 16m hitpoints. 0.0 is currently the purview of people with everything their own way defensively. don't act surprised about it when people suggest you are playing eve on \"easy mode\"."
"can you point me to the reinforcement timers on my ships? no concord in my space. it's a free for all. you don't always get to pick and choose whether to engage. having \"space police\" there to make sure you're only attacking approved targets is hardly what i'd call hardcore.:edit: if it was easy you'd probably be capable eh?"
"in case you hadn't noticed, there's a sum total of one combat capable cap ship in highsec, and that's the veldnaught."
"who needs \"space police\" when you have pos shields to hide behind eh? its a silly argument darius and goes nowhere. what is apparent is that eve is getting more polarized between space ship pvp empire/lowsec/npc sov and pvpos sov space where the ability to produce a blob is the only requirement for success. still we won't agree on this and its pointless arguing on the forums."
"calling it a silly argument doesn't make it so. my pos shields don't spawn spontaneously out of nowhere. you could blob someone just as easily in empire as you could in 0.0. i have no idea what you think your platform is here but it doesn't seem to be based in reality. are we perhaps talking about a different game?"
"on the subject of empire wars vs. nullsec wars: fleets fights go much smoother when you don't have to worry about losing ships to concord because they accidentally shot a vulture, sight-seer or other assorted bystanders. it's also not so fun when a hostile fleet docks up to avoid your superior or equal force and you have to either move on hoping that they don't get more numbers and backstab you later or camp them and then you're playing age of smacktard, call of youtube or world of forumcraft instead of playing eve. at least lag is a factor in both instances, but it comes from different sources.damn, darius, i know you're utterly consumed by 0.0 warfare, but you're not exactly playing eve the only way it's meant to be played."
"ladies, ladies. empire and 0.0 warfare are both as crap as each other!!"
"epic thread hijack :"
"indeed."
"i know, it's obviously meant to be played hiding in stations *****ing about getting suicide ganked or having your can flagged. a little thing i like to call hardcore mode.sarcasm aside we do have occasional empire wars they simply don't suit me. i try to shy away from calling any playstyle the \"right\" playstyle, but if someone else is going to lay down the bait i'll bite."
"poasting in a darius vs. jade thread. also, the op is a moron."
"the csm voted against the nano nerf on sunday. my understanding was that once you voted against an issue, you didn't bring it up again?"
"that was the csm's understanding yes. jade likes to try to change the rules when he doesn't get his way."
"you know if you really step back and look at what you are doing. it does not make a lot of sense.you are ****ed because nozh whacked the nano's with a nerf sledge. i think it is a bit heavy handed, but seriously how can you throw a logical argument at ccp when you have no f'n clue what they are actually going to change. you do not have any of their data. you do not sit in the room with them having discussions about what works or does not. hey your not a dev. i would not second guess a guy that likes to swing that damn nerf bat. its like trying to do the same job twice. don't blow it the first time around by ****ing them off to the point they tell you to go get bent the next time you bring it up.the only reason i see this is getting pushed through is because this issue has high visibility and will help in the re-election process when it comes around again."
"sisi. oh look i just demolished your argument."
"really. so tell me what are nozh findings. what has he come up with. have you ever noticed when they do a big test on sisi it usually is not the same as when it hits tq. or some of the content never hits? so you are guessing."
"this would be because the devs would like the players to test the changes on sisi then provide them with feedback directly so that they can make a more informed decision. that's just a crazy shot in the dark though and not at all exactly what the devs have asked for..."
"] inanna zuni > permanently,.and thats my personal last recollection of the issue."
"fair enough. you know as well as i do that the vote will fail, but if we didn't have an agreement i really can't be angry about that. i can say it's bad form and that the council's not happy with it, but go ahead and have it your way. v0vsee you in 2 weeks when it fails by a higher margin. time well spent i say."
"well maybe it does darius. but end of the day we have a lot of players feeling very passionately that the csm should be addressing the speed issue and i'd like to be able to tell those people that we are considering it and have been testing sisi and will help to the make the arguments needed to get ccp to reach the right balance in the patch. i'd rather get humiliated and voted down 7-2 in the csm that i would just stand by and not even try to do the right thing. if we can't act from principle in the virtual politics of a mmorpg it'd be a pretty poor thing really."
"spare me the walking against the wind bull****. if we spend every meeting voting on the same issues we get nowhere. this isn't a game issue yet. the players have been given a channel directly to the devs to address this issue by the devs. the csm should be focusing on the game that actually exists.the right thing is to respect the vote we already had."
"can't you two see that you're in love?!?!"
"/thread"
"as a man of the roid, i could act as the celebrant during the next csm meeting aka jade & darius' wedding.i'll be setting up a gift registry in the eve store"
"i wonder why the member of the large, entrenched space-holding alliance is so in favour of the nano nerfs that would make their life a lot easier... hmm why is that??"
"bear in mind that the csm wasn't voting on whether the nerf was a good idea, but on whether they should issue a unified statement on the changes.considering how wide reaching the proposed changes actually are, and the sheer number of changes involved are you surprised that they couldn't come to an agreement over this? especially given that within the playerbase itself there are heavy divisions as to how this issue should be approached even to the degree of agreeing with some changes but not others. you'd have to debate each change individually instead of as a whole, then debate the changes as they affect each other.this would be one of the first times i've seen a csm vote where the vote was deadlocked with neither enough votes for escalation 5 votes for nor enough votes to deny escalation 5 votes against. i'd be interested to know what mechanisms you have in place to resolve such issues in future, though at the moment, returning it to the full csm 9 for further discussion does seem the most prudent course of action so that a vote can be done to definately set the csm's position in one direction or another."
"well gabriel it's not so much a matter of needing enough votes to deny escalation - it's just about whether something gets the 5 votes needed to support escalation. if it doesn't get 5 supports it fails."
"it fails on a tie, as is standard for any venue that doesn't have a tiebreaking vote. i remember a few big ones in student government that did that, and of course there's canadian abortion law, which doesn't exist because the replacement law failed on a tie in the senatebecause the acting speaker didn't know he could vote, oddly after the first one was struck down."
"canadian politicians ftw!"
"thus the reason there's an odd number on the council. i believe at the time there were two alternates active. unfortunately if everyone doesn't attend not calling anyone out just stating a fact we won't have the optimal voting arrangement.i find it pretty hilarious that some dude itt tried to allude to our being a \"large entrenched 0.0 alliance\" having anything to do with the nano issue. firstly it wasn't a year or two ago we were small and new. secondly my guys are just as split over this as anyone else. gabriel hit the nail on the head when he said why the vote was shot down.it seems virtually every time i vote against something people pull out the goon card which is pretty hilarious given that i have voted at times in opposition to their wishes. if we can take a step back from the kool-aid and narcissism maybe we can accept the fact that i simply think something's a bad idea as opposed to an attempt to cling to some vested interest. i don't even like my own space to be frank, it's just a facet of the game and there's not been any better alternatives presented."
"you're either involved in 0.0 sov warfare and are assumed to be furthering your own agenda, or not involved at all and proposed ridiculous solutions to fake problems. /sigh"
"ties in westminster legislatures are vanishingly rare, and if i recall the story correctly, the guy wasn't the actual speaker, meaning he's not expected to know the rules as well. he thought he had the tiebreaking vote, but it tuned out that if he wanted to vote he had to do it at the same time as everybody else, which he failed to do. hence a tie, hence abortions are legal until the actual moment of childbirth in canadaa unique situation in the western world since for various reasons i won't go into here, nobody has tried to change that in the 18 years since. anyways, i'll stop hijacking the thread and just finish making the point i raised the example to make - votes fail on a tie. hence a 9-man committee, but that doesn't work so well when there are 6 absences among the 9+5 of them."
"salvager ii..."
"small tractor beam ii, 1600mm reinforced rolled tungsten ii...and of course, the mysteriously absent \"covert ops cloaking device i\" -- there's a t2 but no t1 version."
"they had one, but once engaged, they couldn't find it again."
"i thought we were supposed to get information from csm people after their meeting? does anyone know if this has been sent to ccp or is there a problem again?"
"signed."
"i agree 100%"
"biggest issue in eve today how pos's ruin peoples lives! ccp why not just make pos anchoring/onlining easier? it takes all day for 1 tower? give me a break. we dont play eve to watch anchor/online timers grind down slowley!"
"most boredom i have ever experianced in eve.so fix it ccp!"
"anchoring pos is ***** glad i've only anchored a fully fitted one 2 times"
"/signed"
"fixed"
"yeah i forgot moon poo and reacting and fighters. to be honest i have this wall of tl;dr that i created in notepad cause i am all high tech and ****, but then i got strunk and said **** it because frankly i doubt this will get anyones attention. the fact of the matter though is you can fart out all the rp reasons in the universe for 0.4 being different, but frankly, its still utterly ******ed. go lowsec!"
"/signed"
"has my support"
"i support this."
"i can setup up a pos in 0.4 but...i can't moon mine, i can get attacked by dreadnaughts, i need standings and charts...0.5 is better or i will simply skip standings and go to a 0.1 - 0.3 system, atm 0.4 really has no benefit whatsoever to it.fully support"
"agreed. it seems a silly limitation without explanation."
"my preference is for a freighter-type ship i.e, no fitting slots that is nothing but hangar and a small cargo bay. make it gate friendly... no drones, so it's harmless. and people will have the option to transport ships as their desire with little fuss. and there's already a system in place for dealing with carriers that pop with ships aboard.for bonus points... make it an interbus ship. :"
"do want"
"i say we should look at some other ideas. tbh the only thing needed is a poly nerf."
"against, 100%"
"yes"
"changing my vote from for to against. after much discussion i come to agree this is simply too much nerf."
"while accepting that there is a problem with speed, this solution goes way too far, too fast. i suggest phasing in changes one by one rather than shotgunning the whole game into drake tennis."
"indeed"
"againstremove uber-speeds not all speeds"
"who is this ben derider? it can't be me, i'm usually the one being derided. anyway, i thought i'd highlight an observation about this thread which i also mentioned in the csm meeting itself that while a lot of people here are accepting of the need for a nerf to some degree, they feel that the current plan goes too far. well, the more i read of the threads in game development and the more time i spend on sisi myself, the more i'm inclined to agree with that position also.early on in the piece i voted in the \"for\" thread, and while i still don't regret that, i think it's only fair that i vote in this thread now too in recognition of the other aspects of the game the current plan stands to break should it go ahead.edit: grammar/ben"
"against.i'm all for nerfing insane speeds, but the proposed changes are ridiculous."
"i support this thread"
"against its all ok for now dont nerf again heh"
"against nano nerf."
"against ze speed nerf....its just too much."
"i agree that balancing is needed. but it should be done like balancing a scale. you don't put an aircraft carrier on the other side of the scale to tip it slightly into the right direction.i love flying my taranis on tq - it's t2 fitted and unrigged. passing through a bubble gate camp is a challenge for me as it is. when the changes go through as proposed i can decide to invest 1 billion isk to achieve the same result. no thanks ccp!"
"down with the nerfs."
"i am against it."
"signedif u do this look at missiles and guns tracking speeds... webs won't stop u."
"i am against the nano nerf. devs/nozh, please read all the great ideas people have put forth and give this some more thought. do not make minmatar a useless race."
"against"
"to much imho, a tweek is in time but not all this."
"i am for and against the proposed changes, but mostly against.i am in favor of balancing i.e., fixing the stacking issues with polycarbon rigs, snake implants, and nanofibers.smoothing out differences in speed across ship classes and within classes is a decent idea, but i am concerned that the current implementation is poorly done.i am not in favor of the rest of the changes."
"against."
"worst patch ever."
"/signed"
"indeed"
"/signed"
"against"
"n.n.n!no nano nerf !"
"against:for1359:638 supporters1794:789 replies60:27 pages2:1, lolz"
"i love this guy. the embodyment of all those who support these insane sweeping changes.\"i hope ccp won't cave to the whiners that can't adapt.\"you ****ing moron! the only reason they are nerfing it is because a bunch of people whined and couldn't adapt!!! we are pvpers! \"telling a pvp'er to adapt is like telling a shark to swim, he's doing it anyway.\" -pheonix kananif people like you had adapted as opposed to whining, this thread wouldn't be here and you wouldn't have made that stupid comment!nerfing ludicrous speed is needed, but these sweeping nerfs are insane and go way to far. this nerf is wrong and needs to be reworked."
"the changes go too far."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed.say no to drake tennis."
"this.against.minmatars main defence is speed, i like speed. do not nerf this.edit: first on page 61. \o/edit 2: showing my support with the thumbs up."
"against.ccp stated that nanogangs are broken. i fully support a reasonable nerf on nanos. however, i do not support a nerf to speed and every single ship that uses speed to get anywhere.the idea is horrible. ccp should know better than to give crap dev blogs after the carrier nerf one. if ccp wants to come up with a way to nerf nano gangs, they need to get a consensus from the community, because it's quite clear by now that we know the inner workings of the game far better than the devs."
"against"
"against nanos need some tweaking/balancing but the changes on sisi arent the way to do it."
"signed"
"need 90-days"
"yarrr"
"full support"
"nano titans ftl!!!!!"
"i don't really care but it's prob a good thing. hey everyone cryed about torps, but really if your going to send a missile 12 miles away you don't use a torp...thats dumb.so bring the speed fix...sounds good"
"i am fully supporting the upcoming change related to speed."
"yup. it just makes sense."
"sapport"
"finally."
"go for launch."
"it's a slippery slope. wardecs are currently a freeform tool for corps to use against each other, their use and victory conditions being player-determined. replacing that player-defined versatility with game-defined goals removes all freeform use of the wardec system. the new system has to cover all of the current uses of the system or it will not be well-recieved but it is simply not possible for game-defined mechanics to cover all of the uses that people currently have for wardecs. how exactly would a game-defined goal system handle a goal of \"get an apology from their ceo for insulting our ceo\"? it can't.ccp have a history of developing eve-online in the direction that players are already using it. when players started forming corporate alliances, ccp introduced alliance mechanics to the game to help support it. when it became aparant that players unilaterally used local for spotting friendlies/hostiles, ccp introduced standings icons in local chat to help support that. there are a ton of other examples that all serve to establish a popular game design trend that has been key in eve's long-term success. they develop eve in the direction it's played rather than try and force players to play a certain way.this proposed change is a complete 180 turn from that ethos. rather than providing players with tools that help them do what they are already doing, this is forcing players to play the war game the way ccp wants. many players have screamed \"go back to wow\" etc at this and while they may be expressing their points ineloquently, they do have a good point. other mmos will design strict game systems and force players to play the game the exact way it was intended. eve has always let players determine how they want to play within a loose set of game rules. removing that choice and forcing players to play the war game the way ccp wants removes a huge chunk of the social darwinism that characterises eve and sets it apart from the standard mmo norm. you're literally cutting out a huge part of eve's unique and harsh character as a game.in a moment i will write up a suggestion of my own as to how the wardec system could be revamped without removing any of its current uses and without removing the social darwinism inherent in eve. i'll keep in mind the goals that it appears ccp wants to achieve. it might take a little while, i'll post it as a reply when i'm done. for now, i do not support this thread or notion.edit: how did i miss this thread for a whole month? o_o. hope someone actually reads my suggestions anyway :/. in addition, i personally believe that any developer who considers non-consentual pvp to be griefing needs to be taken off this particular project. eve is largely built around non-consentual pvp and the cases where it becomes griefing are few and far between."
"if small corps get in a war against their will, why don't they simply join an alliance? being in an alliance will make sure they are no longer a tiny target, their attackers will either have to fight all of the alliance or none of it.it has been argued alliances are too expensive for starting corporations. but that only really applies to starting the alliance. instead of starting a new one, the whole point would be to join an existing alliance.even though i would like to see this option removed, players now also have the option of leaving for an npc corp, which also gives them war immunity.a downside of using alliances would be that starting wars yourself becomes next to impossible, but i would say that is only fair, considering why you'd be joining this type of alliance."
"revamping war mechanics:in these posts i offer a plan for how the war system can be revitalised to provide a better gameplay experience for all corps involved. in writing this, i will attempt to solve three core issues expressed by ccp and the csm and i will be holding a final fourth consideration in mind based on my own experience:1 - wars currently have no victory conditions or goals. the defender also has no way to force an end to the war no matter how powerful their corp is. this is undesirable.2 - attackers can keep up wars indefinitely against easy targets. this is undesirable.3 - wars against small corps are usually skewed in favour of the attacker, making it more difficult for new corps to get organised in safety before they can be targetted and wiped out. as with the first point, this is undesirable.4 - the war system must not be restricted from its current uses. any new system must augment the old one rather than replace it.solving point #1 - war goals:think of this like the contracts system but for wardecs. the attacking corp would issue their wardec along with goals terms of surrender. if the defending corp meet the surrender terms, the war is ended. this is something that people do currently in a non-formal manner with no controls and no guarantees but the new system could help formalise the agreement like contracts did for trade. for example, if someone kills my shiny new megathron in a 0.4 system, i might currently wardec their corp and demand 120m reimbursement to drop the wardec. instead of me evemailing the ceo and demanding isk, what if the wardec system allowed me to specify that formally as a surrender term?the defending corp could click a surrender button to agree to the war's terms and 120m would be transferred from their corp to mine. the corp that surrendered then gains a temporary immunity to wars from my corp and any alliance that they join in that time will inherit the restriction. this immunity represents a formal peace agreement between the two corps which is enforced by concord. this is just one type of war that people currently enact on each other. ccp will need to examine the reasons people currently declare war on each other and try to make formal surrender terms that fit as many of those reasons as possible.to prevent a corp simply retracting the war so they don't give their enemies a peace agreement, peace agreements will always be issued when a war ends no matter how it ends unpaid bill, retracted or surrender terms met. the attacker would select the length of the peace agreement when he creates the wardec, from a minimum of one month up to a maximum of six months. surrender conditions should be modifiable mid-war since ceos currently often renegoatiate surrender terms mid-war. the defender may be able to issue his own counter-offer e.g. 90m for that megathron loss discussed earlier and the attacker could accept it. the new surrender terms would replace the old ones and the defending corp could then agree to the new terms.the key thing to remember here is that we're designing the new system to do formally what the old one did informally. all we've done is design a tool to enhance the war system as it is currently used and provide formal surrender and peace conditions. the defenders will now have a formal way to agree to end to hostilities and the peace agreement gives a corp an incentive to accept surrender terms if they are reasonable.in addition to formal goals, freeform goals are an essential requirement. social terms for surrender cannot possibly ever be covered by game mechanics so a freeform surrender term system similar to freeform contracts will be required. players could type in any terms at all like \"i want bill to issue a formal apology to joe for calling him a noob\" and the attacking corp would declare if and when the terms were met. at that point, the war would end and peace would be declared."
"solving points #2 and #3 - war costs.currently, a 50-man corp declaring war on a 5-man corp costs the same amount as in reverse but the war is skewed in favour of the larger corp. another consideration is that war costs have dropped over the years. while the 2-6m costs are the same as they always were, isk generation abilities have increased significantly since 2005. war costs are now pocket change, a formality that most attackers don't even care about. these two factors combined means that attackers can choose easy targets and keep the wars active indefinitely. small corps have very few choices they can join an alliance to increase next week's wardec fee to 50m, go into hiding and hope their enemies will get bored or simply disband the corp. none of these is an ideal solution when a small fledgling corp is wardecced by a much larger force.this problem will be solved by redesigning the wardec fee system. rather than basing the wardec fee on the number of active wardecs, it will be based on the number of active pilots in the defending corp. the number of active pilots is defined as those who have been online in the past month and the reason to use this metric for pricing is simple. using a plain pilot count rather than an active pilot count means corps would be encouraged to boot inactive members to alter war costs, which they shouldn't have to. pilots who haven't logged in for a month cannot possibly be part of the corp's war effort and should not be taken into account when determining how combat-effective the corp should be. since fees are only reassessed once a week for each war, making an active player count should be very feasible on cpu time and can be done during downtime.the fees themselves would be scaled based on the difference between the active player counts in both corps. for example, a corp of 50 versus a corp of 50 could cost 10m/week while a corp of 50 against a corp of 5 could cost 100m/week and so be infeasible. likewise, a corp of 50 declaring war on a corp of 100 could cost them only 5m/week. the new system encourages warmongers to declare war on larger corps to get more targets for a cheaper price. it also makes costs infeasibly high for very large corps picking on smaller ones. to attack smaller corps, a warmongering corporation would need to split into smaller groups that are more easily resisted, giving the smaller corps a fighting chance.alliance fees could be calculated the same way using a total of the active pilots in all member corps and then multiplied by a factor. using the above price scheme of 10m for an equal number war, a factor of about 5 is appropriate. a minimum fee of 50m/week for wardeccing an alliance should be maintained. this way small corps could not declare war on alliances on the cheap but massive corps declaring war on small alliances could have to pay over 50m/week.upholding point #4:point #4 is something i strongly believe in. having followed eve's development for over four years, i am confident that one of the major contributing factor in its success has been how the game is developed to support what the players do. rather than telling us how to play, ccp has always just given us the tools and let us play the way we want. that sandbox style is one of eve's greatest attributes and it's particularly important that the core game mechanics remain as tools in a sandbox.apart from balance issues with flavour of the month setups being adjusted, ccp has never really sat down and told us how to play their game. nor should they, it's a sandbox and it should stay that way. faction warfare had a hint of it with the victory points and system capturing but even that didn't go to plan. for example, despite ccp designing the faction warfare system capturing game, the gallente militia are largely ignoring captures in favour of good pvp.the war system described supplements and rebalances the war system rather than replacing it. this upholds point #4."
"in that bit they stat there is no safe way to be in a small group and that the base size of corporation determins who u can war dec is what i got from it correct me if im wrongdoesnt this conflict with th first of my quotes i mean 2 small corps at war the targeted corp sells/auctions there war decs to a twice as big merc corp isnt that abit overpowered? and u dnt exactly see adolf ****** auctioning of his war with the world when he was loosing did u lol"
"i really don't see a problem with the current system tbh. i've been on both the giving and recieving end of empire wardecs and that is something that makes this game good. there is no safe space. don't make it too soft."
"see my signature"
"this is also my opinion on the matter.additionally, the implementation of 'victory conditions' or something to that effect will detract from the free-form nature of war declarations, and ultimately dilute the sandbox nature of eve."
"i propose that ccp put all lvl 4 missions in 0.0 all lvl 3 missions in low sec and all lvl two missions in .7 sec or lower. the higher the sec status the lower levels of missions because that is were the easy jobs are and the harder jobs are closer to the border of an empires space or going out of their space to do missions for them. this would help fix the balance for risk/reward. also change the size of empire roids so that they pop from one or two cycles of a strip miner, and limit how much ice spawns on roids in empire saying that the country in charge mines so much of it off. size of roids increases as you move to lower sec status areas.the rp reason for agents moving is that with the war and other things going on they have greater need near the borders of their space. this means that the newest agents they keep close to home and their more trusted agents they move and spread farther out. the roids decreasing in size would be caused by the empires expanded industrial needs during the wartime."
"posting to support my own thread."
"good idea."
"/signed"
"deffo signed."
"signed. this is a great idea. empire space should have never been meant for carebears. just a places for newbies to get their feet wet before venturing into 0.0."
"/signed.economics tells us that profit is made at borders, so go find them."
"agreeadditional rp support: how can developed space have all the raw materials still available in high quantities? traditional supply and demand would indicate that scarce resources in developed space are 1, scarce, and 2, highly valuable. i don't think high sec minerals reflect this. force people out into the wilderness to search for raw materials."
"signed."
"agreed"
"good idea.supporting this."
"good ideas are good"
"makes sense.in every other game, the \"newbie area\" offers you only very limited opportunities for wealth and advancement, and you have to go into more dangerous territory to accomplish anything. eve should be the same. risk/reward and progression."
"supporting this badly punctuated idea.the frontiers of space should have greater risk/reward than the well-colonised, heavily policed lands. would there have been a gold rush and massive expansion in the western us had there been plentiful and ever-lasting gold mines in new england?i think not.e: to put it in a manner that the devs understand, there's more profit to be made in shadowmoon valley than in goldshire."
"hell yes"
"supported."
"supported, but i think maybe a bit drastic. make l4s scattered across low sec and 0.0. perhaps have a few very low quality l4 agents in hi sec, but preferably not. i believe that l3 missions staying in hi sec would be fine.regarding roids/ores, something needs to be done with the market. the low end ores veldspar are stupidly profitable in comparison to lowsec ones."
"sounds like a better idea than some of the others put forward regarding balancing the risk/reward"
"making asteroids contain less than a strip miner cycle in 1.0 would encourage more experienced players to move away from the starter zones in their hulks that sit there and hoover a belt dry, leaving better pickings for newer players in our mining destroyers and cruisers."
"signed"
"simple commonsense, and a change that has been obviously required for a long time.i say this as someone who runs missions.if all the level 4 agents move to lo-sec, the danger from pirates will be proportionately less. where there are only a few decent agents in lo-sec, they are easily camped; where there are dozens, less easily and less frequently."
"a few -15 to -20 level 4 agents in border hi-sec systems."
"as an outsider to high sec mission running, and having minimal experience of it, i am perfectly qualified and can be completely objective on this issue, unlike all those who run missions in both high sec and low sec every day.signed."
"copying my response from this thread.obviously, i don't support it."
"/signed"
"while i actually agree with the idea, not sure i agree with all of the tone. in fact, i'm not even sure it would be a good idea in general.if you move l4 missions to low and null sec, some people will keep making cash notably null sec alliances like the goons, but most people who currently run l4 missions will simply stop.as long as death effects how quickly you gain sp since death destroys implants and implants are a huge factor in sp gain you will have many people unwilling to risk going into low or null sec. this is esp true of casual players that don't have the isk to replace even the moderately priced implants on a frequent basis.sure one can grind an evening of l4 missions to pay for a new set of +4 implants, but when you can only run a few l3s per week? then you start talking about a month or more of grinding to either set a set asside in which case you have to stop pvp till you can afford another or you have the reduced sp gain, which esp for a new player is a big deal since they are already scrambling to get their skills in line so they can access game content.moving the good stuff out of high-sec would be a great idea, but as long as sp and death are coupled like they are now you are going to have people who just can't be convinced the risk is worth it since they don't play enough for the reward to offset the fixed-price risk they face.now, if they were decoupled say, reduce jump-clone cooldown to an hour or something, or removable learning implants then yay l4 missions in low sec!"
"signed"
"you know it's pretty easy to avoid losing your pod if you're not in 0.0."
"this thread is called meet goonswarm... and their alts... who actually block out all 0.0 for anyone...well... i just want zydrine and mercoxit asteroid belts in high sec, then lvl 4 missions will not matter to me"
"i agree."
"good idea"
"good idea"
"when did we take over the entire 0.0 map?oh wait. we didn't."
"support, not necessarily for the specific changes proposed, but definitely for a reduction in the rewards of empire, ratting should not be the only major income benefit when moving into more dangerous space."
"honestly this was just a simple idea. people also have to realize people would build communities etc. in their section of space and could police it them selves in 0.0 like cva do. their would be npc sov space so people don't have to worry about not being able to dock, and about having to take care of pos's."
"supporting, dis here."
"supporting this or something like it. risk should equal reward."
"supported."
"absolutly worth some dev-time."
"i'd first like to point this out very seriously as an amarr pilot. in an abaddon if you decided to go 2 trimark 1 ccc or 3 trimark and say 1 heavy cap booster and 2 cap recharger ii's your still not cap stable. infact most amarr ships would become near useless and no race needs cap stability more since it directly affects dps & tank. unlike caldari or minmatar with low or no cap usage and gallente with drones the amarr need that strong cap backbone."
"he specifically said he doesn't want to reduce or eliminate their effects, he just thinks that effects that generic are poor design for rigs and should be avoided in future, and that narrower rigs should have bigger bonuses in order to make them worthwhile."
"exactly ^^ in furtherance to your point, the churchwarden, would it not be great for amarr if energy discharge elutriation was way better than ccc? it would be much easier to become cap stable on an abaddon if you could eat into the gun's cap use directly, rather than just boosting overall recharge. you can do it now, but the ccc has no penalty, and the ede has too small a bonus. if the ede had a big bonus, then it'd be the choice! i'd also completely disagree with the idea that amarr would be useless if cccs were nerfed - what pvp abaddon fits a ccc or a cap recharger? that's not a relevant point. but like i say, i dont want ccc nerfed. i want to see it a poor choice to use ccc except on boats that need cap for lots of things - e.g. a capital ship that needs it for jumping, tanking, shooting, remote repping. a boat like an abaddon that uses cap for only one thing, or /mostly/ one thing, would benefit from ede rig being very useful."
"nicely written and worthy of discussion imho"
"i agree."
"well thought out ideas, deserves discussion"
"gimme!!!"
"/supported"
"these proposals have my support. the crap rigs are one of those things ccp will fix eventually, whether it's this winter if they start looking at it now, or in 2 years when a dev happens to notice how bad some of them are while playing on the test server deimos speed buff anyone?. i'd prefer it be sooner rather than later."
"i'd sign it just for this. however, all of your ideas are sound, and just happen to be stuff i've voiced, myself, prior."
"/signed"
"drone obedience not only on attack targets... i've also run into an issue where some drones failed to return to bay when told so. had a pair fail to get into the drone bay on repeated commands but when i sent all out of the bay, the two naughty drones did return when i told all to get in the drone bay."
"haven't seen the first,annoyed by the second."
"one of those ages old problems that just never got fixed. cheers if this leads to some action, or at least some serious thought from ccp."
"good idea, would retain eve's manual piloting sub-game and restrain blobbing by forcing players to setup fleet maneuvers."
"/signed for sure"
"yes"
"maybe someone has already said this but... can't the vaga not shoot with it's mwd on and hit the broadside of a sun anyway? whats the difference?"
"better than the terrible changes in the dev blog.although anyone saying the vaga cant hit for much with its mwd active has no clue whatsoever about what they're talking about and/or have never actually flown it."
"good idea"
"against. this makes it actually much easier for nano ships to disengage as following ships cannot put points/webs on them."
"what about you go back to page one and actually read what is stated there ?"
"this gets my vote only for being a far simpler solution than the one on sisi"
"fantastic idea."
"i'm passing on this post from sarmaul, as his account is currently inactive."
"why the hell not hopefully this also cutz down on the whine threads"
"it's not made clear there what is meant by weapons. are ecm/scrams/webs weapons ? is an interdiction sphere launcher a weapon ?"
"looking back at the op, i can kinda see how you might have been confused by the wording. to clarify, the proposal is to cause all damage dealing devices to stop dealing damage while the mwd is active.any modules that do not inflict damage would not be affected."
"so a curse can still neut inties following it ?"
"yes, but you raise a good point and that'd be something that would need to be looked at with testing on sisi, and possibly adjusted perhaps add neuts to the list of affected modules. after testing, some other polishing may have to be looked at as well to tie up other loose ends.the possible inclusion of the mwd reactivation time to prevent exploiting slow rof weapons has already been mentioned.as has been mentioned many times in this thread, combat inties would need to be looked at, and if the ab buff isn't enough to make them viable, a role bonus to allow weapon use with the mwd might be an option.drone behavior would be another thing to keep an eye on. it's possible that the ability of drones to accept new targets and move towards their target while the mwd is going might be overpowered. further testing would be required."
"totally support this idea."
"this is a really smooth solution...neuts would need playing around with and testing, curse would be hard to tackle but it has always been hard to tackle.it really neatly solves the problem people have with nano ships, with these changes you have no excuse for your inty's not getting them tackled so your heavy hitters can kill them./support"
"excellent idea."
"i wanted to add my support: if a tackler catches a vagabond trying to disengage by mwd, the vagabond can use its guns again to wtfpwn the ceptor like it's meant to."
"great idea, signed!"
"so simple, so easy. i have always maintained:sarmaul >>>> ccp"
"much better than ccps idea"
"i like this idea."
"i support this. it tames speeds, doesn't eliminate speed as a method of tanking, and doesn't completely destroy ancillary things that the current ccp proposal does."
"fantastic"
"much better idea than the nano nerf but could use a few tweaks. i think turrets should be allowed to fire with the mwd on since alot of blasterboats and vagabonds rely on it. i'm not a missile ship person so i can't respond to how this would affect missile ships. certain drone ships would be a bit ****ed by it too dominix/myrm/vexor as they can't launch drones on the approach.on a second thought this would break alot of things too.what about this: if a ship surpasses 2.5km/s it will not be able to use launchers/drones/turrets. this should not be applied to interceptors/frigs/afs/dictors."
"worst idea i've seen for fixing \"the speed problem\"."
"gtfo, sac pilot."
"domi/myrm/vexor can still launch drones on approach, they will just do 0 damage as long as you got your mwd on. blasterboats can point and web their target, and just have to pulse the mwd on and off depending on their range to target. surely this alternative beats going 800m/s, lol."
"could you please elaborate on why you disapprove of this idea? are there specific tactics you think it will harm too severely? or do you think that it doesn't go far enough in restricting tactics you consider overpowered?the more detail you can give the better."
"i like the general idea. details need to be worked on, but this is good."
"great ideas, i definitely see this as being a much better way of going about dealing with excessive speed and a great overall change to tactics. definitely supported."
"another thread that concerns this and which needs a little love.i still support this thread's subject though. and i'd love to hear dinique's suggestions."
"thank you sarm, however, i feel this solution is far to elegant, and far to much work has already gone into ccps 'solution' for them to scrap it. le sigh. we can hope, right?"
"yeea! much better."
"yes, why should a pirate's life be made easier?. which is basically why you're asking for this. 5% chance of you killing a miner, as opposed to almost 100% chance of him getting away, most definitely odds ftw!i say again, work for your target!. miners already have enough to do to attempt to prevent being blown up, imo.ab"
"ok, why don't you go break down what you have to do to avoid being blown up?you warp to a belt, most often times if your mining in 0.0 you have a pos in system, but for the sake of argument, lets say your \"ninja mining\", and you don't have a tower. in either case, your \"work\" ammounts to dropping into a belt, aligning back to your safe spot or tower, and activating your mining lasers. you then watch local carefully, and as soon as it shows a neutral or red person jump into local, you initiate warp, to your ss or your tower, and you are safe.boy, that sure was a lot of hard work you put into keeping yourself safe wasn't it.....completely balanced. also note this does in fact make the hunters life harder too. as it stands now, we jump in and start scanning, trying to narrow down where you are as fast as possible. some have it down pretty good, others, not so good. lets say your average, and you take 30 seconds to locate a target in a belt, you warp to it. now this is not 30 seconds since you landed in system, its more like 40 or so from load in, thats how long your name has been in local.just fyi, in 40 seconds, you can align a titan for warp, so you warp to the belt, hoping, only to find as you drop out of warp the guy is gone, and now your picking him up on scan at a moon, or he's gone entirely having cloaked.the only reason we scan at all now is because we see you in local.if local were to be removed, we'd actually have to hunt the systems, as we'd have no idea if you were in the system at all.certain larger systems like d4k would become bastions to miners, with their huge size it would take an age to scan for targets. but, at least we would have a chance.local for empire, no problem, maybe the billboards broadcast some high end frequency or some rp crap like that, but for 0.0, it should not be there.your all like \"hey, we got it rough, you should have to work for your kills\". yea, how often do you actually loose miners and ratters in 0.0 if you have enough sense to just watch local.never, thats how often. short of him/her going afk, there is absolutely no way to catch a ratter or miner, in 0.0 because as soon as they see local, they vanish to safety."
"no do not remove local."
"finding ships in space should be a challenge... it will take planets moons and everything to a whole new level... covert ops will have a role...killing a ship will not be as easy as before... currently being secretive and stealthy is broken... people monitor local by local spikes, making an rapid assualt impossible.moving in a large fleet can not be done queitly... covert ops stelathbombers and recons are a joke...people leave afk alts on every gate just to monitor local activity, which is not right either, local intelligence gets abused.space should be private and give no information about objects in space...also sensor strenght should have something to do with scan capabilities... ships need different on-board scanner sensitivity... this will make dedicated hunting ships more viable in finding a target, while gank bs should not be able to scan very far... this will add versatility to gameplay"
"nice argument you have there....way to support your views."
"the topic is becoming more and more important with recent proposed changes."
"terrible ideas. every single one. are we supposed to give up flying the ships we like flying in favour of frigates from now on? that's what you're leading us to with these \"suggestions.\""
"that pretty much sums it up. as much as i hate missions, there's not a chance i'd keep playing they got nerfed to hell and beyond for no reason at all."
"but you wont make a lot. oh, and lets not forget that you can always have other traders undercut overcut? your buy orders."
"conservative numbers:-postulates:a single agent can serve 175 concurrent players at any given time lag limit.a player can make 20 million isk per hour i can make more, but let's call it 20m doing missions for a level 4 agent.therefore each level 4 agent can provide earnings of ~3,750 million isk per hour. call it a round 90 billion isk per day.that's not for all hi sec level 4 agents. that's for each one of them.i realise that this figure may come as a surprise - it certainly astounded me. i knew that they were money fountains, but i didn't properly appreciate the magnitude.by way of comparison, a very, very good 0.0 ratting system might - and this is best case, on a good day - be able to produce 100-120m/hr. such systems -0.95 true sec, 10+ belts are very rare indeed. that is 1/30th of the value of the hi-sec level 4 agent.the very best regions of player sov space are worth less, in earning potential, than 2-3 hi-sec level 4 agents. the vast majority of 0.0 systems will in fact struggle to provide a ratter with 10m/hr. that's per uninterrupted hour. most regions are worth less than a single level 4 agent.if i had to guess, i'd say that the caldari agents alone are worth more than the ratting value of the whole of player sov 0.0 space. probably much more.feel free to work over the math - i have rounded in favour of 0.0 ratting, and taken more conservative values than my own experience suggests for missioning.but even if the ratio is halved, it demonstrates that hi-sec is absurdly lucrative compared to 0.0. oh - and that's before risk factors are taken into account - that swings the balance even more heavily towards empire. missioners don't have to pay tax, x up for alliance ops, get ganked, safespot, move assets in and out of 0.0, pay 0.0 prices for ships/mods/ammo etc etc. i haven't bothered including those factors because they don't really make much difference. the balance is so absurdly out of kilter already it doesn't matter.empire isn't full because people hate 0.0. it's full because that's where the isk is."
"bump bump"
"bump"
"the goals would be in my opinion:- give miners back their role as the source of minerals, while refining loot should not be made impossible it should not be widely regarded as a contender to the defacto mineral solution. an amazing amount of minerals can be produced just by a couple of nights ratting in 0.0 if they will be up to the task is another matter but im willing to bet that a lot of people start mining if the profits go up. it might be boring to some, but semi-afk mission running isnt exactly a thrill ride either.- make the t1 market more of a possibility for low sp industrialists. although high sp chars could undercut the prices, i doubt they will since t2 should be more profitable for them if they are not, then thats another issue. low sp chars build should be able to get some decent prices for their items.- make mission running a little less profitable not sure this should be a goal but people are talking about itissues:- refining trading market will collapse, or at least be severely nerfed, effictively reducing the demand for t1 items.- mineral acquisition becomes harder and expensive, prices go up. pvp combat especially fleet warfare becomes much more expensive insurance covers less, t1 items will cost more- mineral locations might become very inconvient and disrupting. this could actually be good for haulers and pirates as it could increase traffic through low sec areasthere is a lot more to it but these are just the things off the top of my head. it will reduce the standard of living for some and be benificial for others. i dont think the loot should be totally dropped just reduced so that it cant produce nearly enough to satisfy demand. dropping modules or bpcs for producing named items might even be rewarding for both mission runners and industrialists.i dont think it should be a requisite to keep the eve universe stagnant, change brings oppertunity and keeps things interesting."
"i don't know that a complete removal would be the ideal solution, but at least a significant reduction in drops i think is needed. right now there's not much incentive for mission runners to buy modules from the industrialists, as they can get nearly all the modules they need, and better ones than producable t1, from wreck drops. on a similar note, nerf drone ores :p. either way industrialists, and minerals, are really only useful overall for t2 modules, ships, and consumables ammo etc, though ships drop a fair amount of it as well. the vast majority of resources of all levels should come from the miner-industrialist chain, not mission runners and ratters."
"agree"
"oh jeez... um... i...wow. this one bears a lot of thinking about. but generally i would have to support it. salvage, mining, missioning, manufacture and piracy should be the primary influxes of isk... and really, the t1 loot dropping doesn't fit in anywhere there.still, don't take it out completely and everywhere. not unless you find out, after a while, that it's required for things to work. i mean, there are characters within missions or certain things that require tags or such that lead to drops or loots of m3-m4 items. these things require a bit of effort. so keeping these to a degree might be good."
"the idea of getting influence points for mining, jumping, or even just ship presence, terrible ideas.kills and moon control, fine. all that other bs, no way. come on, amend that stupid **** out and you have a good idea.you should still be required to put up at least 1 control tower to have any say in the system, otherwise you have nothing to defend, and nobody can contest your claim to dominance.however, pos spamming shouldn't have a say. whether you have 1 or 20 pos up should not effect claim to dominance of a system.so sov warfare would work like this: you put up 1 tower, activate some special module that would make it contest sov or else allies would be perpetually stealing sov from each other and then kill kill kill, influence points push your influence over the other parties involved, you gain sovereignty.orput up 1 tower, activate sov contesting module, then go blow up all the other pos that have sov contesting modules. if you don't defend your sov claiming tower, then how could you deserve the system?to be clear: all the other activities counting for influence = terrible idea."
"i agree completely. hi-sec does not mean \"safe-sec\". between macro-miners, alts and people avoiding at any cost war-decs, npc corps are being exploited. everyone at some point should have to leave npc corps. npc corps imho exist to provide a safe refuge for new players and possibly a safe refuge for those burnt out by low-sec, 0.0 space? - but should not exist as a permanent home.sp levels can be avoided by just training up under the limit and stopping.time in game would be much harder to avoid, especially for macro-miners - they make their money by mining, all the time - take that away from them. after 60 days, move them, their gear and what-not to a war-decable, npc corp. i stayed in an npc corp for i think about 33 days. many people stay much less, some quite a bit more for various reasons rl won't let them log in, whatever. so, 60 days game time? i don't know, but people existing w/o risk of fighting is lame imho.ganking and collecting insurance has always seemed illogical to me, so tweaking that seems good to me. taking out the \"ganks for lulz\" and replacing it with a more focused \"gank for $$$$\" seems much more in line with the \"spirit\" of the game.akedit for spelling - posting after a 12 hour shift = fail...ak"
"i agree. the idea is to balance suicide ganking, not eliminate it.windjammer"
"agree'd."
"change happens they keep moving the cheese anticipate change get ready for the cheese to movemonitor change smell the cheese often so you know when it is getting old adapt to change quickly the quicker you let go of old cheese, the sooner you can enjoy new cheesechange move with the cheese enjoy change! savor the adventure and enjoy the taste of new cheese! be ready to change quickly and enjoy it again & again they keep moving the cheese.excerpt from \"who moved my cheese\"i am not fond of the all the changes that is being implemented but basically it comes down to what you enjoy doing. play eve and move with the changes and learn to use them to your advantage or find another type of game that you would enjoy. i am talking about games here and not some life altering crisis that will affect you directly in life. and this pertains to the gloating carebears atm. don't crow to loudly because at some time some one might your cheese and you will most likely get the same crowd of players wielding buckets to catch your tears also."
"how is \"ganks for lulz\" not within the spirit of a society that is practically lawless and populated by immortals, many of who have an excess of time and money on their hands?given those conditions, some people are going to go on rampages and kill others just because they can get away with it. in any case, i don't think the proposed changes will eliminate this kind of suicide ganking anyway, but i wanted to point out that \"ganks for lulz\" is something that fits within the concept of eve."
"hell yes! losing drones like that can be so annoying."
"one should not lose their drones because of a random disconnect. not fair at all. warping them out is not a good idea, since the server cannot know whether client is disconnected on purpose or not exploit. however, it makes sense to not switch aggression to drones after their host has left grid. with the exception, of course, that the drones were already aggressed."
"that would be awesome indeed. and when he logs back in, the drones will return as well, but as rogue drones, attacking their former master."
"supported.i would also support forcing the drones to return to the ship before warping, or allowing us a configuration option to toggle off the \"warp on disconnect\" behavior."
"great idea. losing an entire flight of drones through no fault of your own is frustrating.windjammer"
"this could be further enhanced by checking against the potential for the 'logoffski', by simply having a calculation which checks a whether the pilot was fighting another person and b how much into structure the pilot was at the time the disconnect occurred.if the pilot was fighting against another pilot, vs. fighting npc's, and was deep into structure, there would be a chance that they employed the logoffski, and for this reason, i would offer a chance that their drones would either successfully or unsuccessfully return to their dronebay, or return under their control when they returned to the area in question.for the latter, obviously it would be better if they were 'still in the area', for the reason that the other pilot would likely either scoop them, or destroy them."
"returning drones to the pilots control see the bold font of your quote would be nice and a step in the right direction, but i still like the op's idea better. look at drones as a weapon. when you emergency warp out due to client or computer crash, you don't leave your guns or launchers behind. why should your drones be different in this regard?windjammer"
"by the nature of the actual action of the drones, they're not physically attached to your ship. some could argue that they're 'tethered' by the programming that controls them, and that could be a viable rp aspect to why they might return, but whatever.i look at it this way - if i'm throwing baseballs at someone, and decide to book it or i'm pulled off for some strange reason i'm not going to automatically find my baseballs if/when i return.ibt drones != baseballs argument."
"you just win this forums!"
"personally, i feel that high-sec miners like me need to have a safe place to conduct our business while warring factions take their aggression out on each other freely. as long as they have an outlet for free pvp wherever they may want it at their choosing, then high-sec will be a much more equal place."
"i feel that removing insurance payouts, increasing sec status hits and decreasing concord response time are steps in the right direction, but more needs to be done, and i think the op hit the nail right on the head."
"highsec is safer, not safe."
"at least people arn't taking it seriously ^_^"
"now that wardecs are officially \"griefing\" it's very clear that consensual pvp is what ccp intends for hi-sec; we might as well just see it done in one big patch rather than dragging the pain out over several."
"fixed."
"i smell troll ."
"/signedbut while your at it can you make sure npc's get the same treatment, i'm like minding my own business warping into these deadspace places and they all just start shooting me, what if i was afk? nothing should shoot me until i activate my dave buttan."
"no no no no no no"
"it was enough to read the title.www.wow-online.com? i prefer eve personally"
"qft"
"please ccp. this univited pvp must stop!111!!1 seriously, all i want to do is spin my ship outside and not in station!!!!11!!!!"
"i full support this.can we get a modal dialogue in space every time somebody locks me asking if i want to fight them? that would make my daily chores of hauling, mining, and hauling, and afk hauling and mining much less exhausting as i won't need to worry about any kind of risk.also, please give this modal an auto reject feature so i can ignore it entirely. thanks."
"you guise, quit messin around."
"supported 100%.i would further ask that all mission deadspaces be locked from anyone but the mission runner, and they would not be scannable by any probes, and anyone salvaging from wrecks that are not created by them would get concordokkened."
"i was 10 seconds away from posting the exact same op."
"i support the op's idea to just get it over with."
"i support this as a short term milestone in a long term project. i think we should be able to play an instanced eve. that way we can setup duling games, conquest games, racing games, and others. it would be great to earn isk in our private instances and then compete in the other instances we enjoy. trading could be down in a shopping instance where there is a worldwide market or maybe through a jita channel. this would solve all the problems of griefers, exploiters, and large bully alliances controlling all of 0.0 . ccp could then get really creative with new instance designs, like eve universes that had different rules or extended epic missions."
"1. under this proposal there is no incentive not to blob. now structures will die even faster. cap ships online must be addressed to successfully alter tower combat mechanics, just lower hp on structures will encourage blobs playing steamroller. one of the factors stopping the steamroller right now outside the jammer is the time commitment. until the solution is found tampering with that commitment will make larger problems. nerf focused fire? that is a dangerous door i would rather not open. 1000 gunners at a tower unable to focus fire is not an advantage at all. 2. there was a fuel cell idea floating around that could make tower upkeep less mind numbing. keeping the cost up or some sort of economic impact is important. what ever happened to that idea?3. i see no mention of how the jammer is defended? again, moving these modules around is not a solution. how does any of this encourage smaller gangs? cannot support this proposal, sorry."
"1 i'm afraid i couldn't disagree more. while the comedy 25 hardener pos needs to go, small gangs shouldn't be able to take space quickly. going by the backstory behind alliances not being allowed to join up in factional warfare, it seems that 0.0 empires are meant to be just that - as powerful as some of the npc corporations. the time taken to take out a pos allows the defender time to rally a fleet and get online.2 oh god yes. my only concern is that this decreases the opportunity for causing diplomatic incidents by stealing stuff from an offline pos.3 surely a simpler solution to the cyno jammer would be to either:- bump the system sovereignty requirement to 4, so only true \"region capitals\" get protection, with a valid route to taking the system available take out outpost systems that are unjammed, killing off sov 4 in the capital, disabling the jammer;- keep the sov requirement at 3, but to bump the power / cpu requirements to cripple its control tower's defenses; or- prohibit any pos modules other than the control tower and the jammer being anchored at that moon.this would solve the major problem of the pos wiping out fleets while they load the grid, while not forcing any major changes in.4 didn't jade say that he wasn't going to bring any 0.0 ideas forward because he \"can't get consensus and wah wah wah i want to be relevant in 0.0 warfare\"?"
"small gangs wouldn't be able to take space unless the owner of the pos fell asleep or forgot about it, or was too busy doing other things, either way, i didnt touch stront timers in the proposal. you get the mails, you show up and whoever is more strategically placed wins the day. and there are very rarely any times when the defender actually shows up to defend the pos when its being attacked initially. 90% of the fights occur when the tower is coming out of reinforced. thats when its most important for organization. the purpose of lowering hp on all pos/anchorables/station services is to allow small gangs to initiate the combat. to be able to dictate where combat for sov or installation disruption can occur. this isn't allowing a small gang to dictate the outcome, thats up for both parties to deciede by putting critical combat assets when the towers come out of reinforce. some good ideas on the cyno jammer but its simply easier to move it away from the tower all together, if the pos is there the shields are still on the defender side, reducing lag on grid to just ships is the goal, and thats why moving the jammer is the best option. also keeping things simple for testing purposes almost makes moving the cyno jammer so blatantly obvious it goes without argument."
"for 1 would you leave dread damage alone?"
"in real life 10 hippies blocking a highway don't cause the town to secede from the state and fall under their control. rl analogies have no place in a videogame."
"sorry the minutes are incorrect and you wasted your time. they are open to mini-games in ambulation. i'm sure you could cook up something original, interesting and not at all game breaking to propose there."
"understandably a lot of people are resisting any additions that look like entitlement to 0.0. we don't want to wow it up and give everyone a chance.however, all the action is happening on the same grids, and this has been shown to be a problem for a number of reasons.moves to break up sov conflicts and provide more potential for harassment techniques to impact a sovereign power to the point that they opt to cede unwanted territory would be desirable. however, they should in no way function to give everyone a piece of 0.0 as a participation ribbon.where we can start this move is by providing more benefits to sovereign powers and more opportunities to fortify their space and ease its maintenance at the expense of more exposure to smaller gangs. risk equals reward. all action to rely on these systems is voluntary.the final goal is to break up the overall conflict of each individual pos to several grids, with more direct attacks carrying more significance, but where less direct attacks can prove disruptive if left unchecked.in short:1 more defense afforded by outposts2 ferry drone system to ease pos to pos logistics 3 pos self-maintenance and repair that has more granularity and exposure than the pos itself.4 pos vulnerability across a more spread out system of objectives that will nominally incapacitate a pos that is experiencing repeated attacks on it's infrastructure.5 capability to restore a pos's functionality across a more spread out area of objectives.to start, i would like to see more stability for large alliances within their own territory wherever they have taken the time to put up some wallpaper and fix shingles on the roof. the single best way to add more stability to the 0.0 occupants of sovereign space is to increase the defenses afforded by outposts such that dwellers can use them as a buffer between engaging every roaming vagabond and going out to meet the enemy. this system should rely on the integrity of pos systems to deploy and maintain, thus skirmish warfare can remove this capability.to lower the maintenance requirements, add a system of ferry drones that can move resources from starbase to starbase. these drones would carry fuel from caches, mined product to reactors, and finished reaction products to final storage location. all pos to pos traffic. thus every pos in your system can be maintained from a central location if you maintain the routes for these drones and go hunt down lone invaders. these ferry drones themselves should be able to be disrupted by attackers, thus breaking down the automatic flow of logistics and increasing the amount of interaction required to pos structures.give pos's satellite structures that occupy another grid, an array of systems that operate to lower fuel requirements, supply added functionality to the pos, and work to repair it. imagine the energy sifter from predator. a wounded pos collects aid from these satellite structures. when the pos is at full capacity, it has more grid and cpu available and has lower fuel requirements.the array structures receive remote invulnerability from the pos via stront supplies that can be restocked via the ferry system. attacks against this array will slowly drain the capability of a pos and eventually render it unable to function as a full deathstar. other pos's in the system will attempt to provide stocks to the pos that is under attack, again via the ferry system.allow a defender who has successfully repelled the attackers and lowered the amount of roaming presence capability to re-deploy more ferry drones and array structures.in this way, pos warfare can be waged in smaller steps or all at once. winning the slow war requires engaging small gangs and winning across multiple fronts. skirmish by skirmish, the system can be made vulnerable or continue to be reinforced by defenders.small objectives tied to pos warfare that don't upset existing 0.0 powers. there you have it."
"they are several very simple solutions that have been brought up and casually ignored by jade and co because they dont make life easier for them.i honestly don't believe kelsin or jade has ever lived in 0.0 for an extended period of time if they are seriously suggesting that a small gang of people should be able to disrupt a sovereign alliance.there are so many inherent flaws with their proposal its mind boggling the goons and bob agree about it yet they continue to strut this idea like its perfect.we could compare soverign 0.0 alliances to npc factions. they have gun emplacements on stargates to prevent small invasions. if you want to allow a small gang to attempt to contest sov maybe there should be guns there that people could man to oppose them more effectively. this change not only removes any defender advantage that should be gained it actually gives the attacker an advantage.24 48 or 72 hours for sov and then back to neutral. you intend for an alliance to have to patrol their entire space every 3 day to make sure not a single gate has been contested with no benefit of having to do such a task other than looking pretty on the map. the benefits of 0.0 hardly out weigh the difficulty of holding it let alone justify putting more meaningless tasks for the players to perform.some of the good suggestions would include:splitting up pos attacks to require multiple grids at once. it doesn't reduce the blobs required to do it but at least changes them all having to be on the same grid at once to succeed.making pos more like small outposts to allow smaller alliances/corporations the ability to establish a foothold. the biggest issue for small corps is that they cant move out and set up base without using npc outposts or renting space. the requirement for outposts is one of the biggest barriers of entry to 0.0 at this time.making it worth smaller alliances/corporations time to even come out to 0.0. right now besides the lowest true sec systems and the rarest moons 0.0 has nothing to offer. last i counted there were 24 -1.0 systems in the whole game so maybe a few hundred that could produce money at the same rate as level 4 missions in high sec ignoring the safety issue. moons are more often run by alliances than single players to help fund the alliance so you can hardly count those for individuals let alone the small alliance trying to start out. high end asteroids are starting to move back up in the market but they are still a long way off the original base values obviously everything is more expensive but comparitevely ccp placed in the game."
"0018 0.0 sovereignty issuesccp has been discussing 0.0 and sovereignty internally for the past year and discussed many issues already. they found that player owned station pos warfare is a very limited mechanic, and that it revolves around the amount of dreadnoughts and other capital ships in the fleet, while small ships only serve as support instead of being able to accomplish small objectives on their own. the long-term plan for 0.0 warfare is to have multiple layers of goals and objectives instead of all fighting occurring over stations. this would allow small groups to have an impact on the game, instead of needing hundreds of ships to have influence in 0.0.nathan ccp said that he does not believe that current large-scale fleet combat is interesting for the participants, mainly due to focus fire.andrew csm jade constantine commented that current 0.0 pvp is siege warfare, people stick to established fortresses and do not venture beyond the gates. his suggestion was to include mechanics that encouraged sovereignty holders to patrol their space, and have ways for roaming gangs to peck at undefended systems and steal resources there.the issue of logistics was also discussed. alex stated that current pos logistics required an alliance to have powergamers that managed them around the clock. he proposed to make 0.0 appeal to a wider audience by removing these repetitive activities that required powergaming. shayne urged ccp to consider mechanics that would provide more synergy between the industrial and combat aspects of 0.0.ccp said that they would have to balance short term achievements to the long term empire building. if people could easily destroy in a day what took months to build up, this would be unfair. but on the other hand, it should not be too hard to smoke out established entities. they agreed however, that the current time sinks in pos warfare are too long.this issue has been put on the rolling agenda, and ccp asked the csm and the players to come up with concrete suggestions how to improve 0.0 warfare and sovereignty.***thats the minutes on the 0.0 sov topic. if you had an issue with this you should have said something during the review sequence. as it is we reviewed it. ccp reviewed it. it was officially signed off and it certainly reflects my memory of the discussion."
"well, that's putting it in a rather crude and dramatic not to mention convenient analogy. i was talking something more along the lines of a dozen or so well-coordinated marines holding a choke point against a few hundred insurgents. of course they'd get overrun, but with timing and the advantage they might cause the enemy heavy losses and achieve some small goal anyway, without too heavy losses themselves.but if you don't want me to talk rl analogies, even if you do yourself, sure. let's put it this way then; it's mostly empty space anyway. a few planets and stations and asteroid belts are not alike a city. few people are going to notice, and it's not going to upset the power balance in the region dramatically. not until that gate becomes an important route of some kind. because it's basically all about the gate. it's the only object that has to remain constant, unharmed and controlled throughout the entire situation.look, it... just seems more appropriate and proper rp-wise that you can claim and hold a gate, locking it down or taking control of its systems in some way at least. that's not going to to keep a stronger foe from booting you from it or hacking it and sending a strike force through, or from using a covert jump bridge to hop in and **** you up the ass, and then giving you the finger, going 'f*ck off! this is our territory!'."
"answered the first suggestion very handily in my previous post.implement pos satellite structures off-grid that can be repped or attacked to hinder or expedite the progress of reinforcing/destroying the tower. this would allow attackers and defenders to keep forcing each other to move back and forth to locations simultaneously during the battle and make it so that one main blob cannot simply sit on the pos as effectively and a well coordinated mobile force can apply more forces where required with trade-offs for splitting up that make it not the voluntary \"i'm divided! conquer me!\" action that it is now.likely during a large battle part of the force would try to remain hidden and defeat would mean outmaneuvering the committed forces and forcing the other side to play their hand and give up any surprise advantage.on the flip-side, taking advantage of an attacker could mean instead making swift attacks against their own infrastructure while they were mobilized with the goal of creating more disruption at home than could be caused against a single pos being dropped into reinforced.these would be very healthy changes to sov warfare. tempted to push the ideas in a separate thread if they are so counter to the op."
"how about instead of having a slap-fight over what was said in minutes reading what i just posted. i handed you a solution to these issues on a silver platter.easier logistics? check.split up objectives where smaller ships can play a role? check."
"i am sure many 0.0 entities would support this so i highly recommend it."
"i sense funky resonance. will continue to spread funky vibes and unconditional breakdancer prosperity to the eve universe.proposals are in this post.threadjacking. want to clean up the idea a bit and then open up a new thread maybe."
"go post it as an issue in its own right and lets get people debating it. if it looks good to go after a decent discussion i'll be happy to get it up on the agenda."
"full of win and awesomeness.frigate captain come on, people! we can beat the evil with love!"
"as part of hijacking this thread in preparation for forking, going to get some groundwork fleshed out.1 ferry drone systemsimplifies starbase logistics and provides the lowest level goal for a roaming gang.drone source/costdrones are manufactured from materials available in any veldroid and quite cheap. bpo's are available at the scale of marshmallows in a box of lucky charms. the value is in what they carry. the cheapness is to signify that you attack them to disrupt things, not inflict lasting wounds, and to make sure that implementing them on a large scale is quite easy. this should result in a large availability of low-hanging fruit to a roaming gang, miners or not. stay at home tactics cannot protect your logistics operation.drone vulnerabilitydrones are very convenient, but also very vulnerable. they warp from one pos to the next and come out of warp to a few clicks outside the bubble, and my god are they slow. in times of peace, they are your friend. to the pirates you ignore, they are an income source.drone programmingdrone programming should be very easy as to not be worse than the problem. the simplest thing i can come up with is to have simple scripts. one for need, and one for availability. every time you launch a pos, initiate a harvest, or start a reaction/refine, a script pair is generated for every material/fuel required/produced. the pair are tied together, and exist really as one item. you can store a value in either the need or the demand script. the value tells the drones to either maintain a certain level at one location or to ship a certain amount to another location when it becomes available. to complete the drone route, take the need or supply script to another pos structure where you want the material to go.the server looks at all pairs of scripts, compares availability/need to search for compatible matches, and dispatches drones to attempt to fill all shipping requirements.drone usage instructionsto put fuel in all the pos's in a system, set the need scripts for those pos's to the desired value and place the availability script into a hangar array where you will deposit fuel. ship fuel to that pos. when the drones detect a pos has less than it needs and that there is a registered supply where some is available, they will move it from one to the next.to do moon mining and ship the materials to a single reactor, program the availability script with the appropriate sized bite of moon material and place the need script in the destination pos's desired module. whenever a cycle is mined, the drones will go to work moving it to the pos with the need script.the system could be made much smarter. i don't think anyone would oppose this, right down to balancing fuel levels smartly and working around cycle-time differences for different modules.****************fun time!************************so, you know your enemy is having a field day on a good moon, and that they're shipping the product to a hangar array at 11-5 pos. you would go roam them, but they like stay-at-home tactics and all you would normally do is scare the miners back to the station. look at the paladin...docking up safe and sound.time to go raid!if they won't fight, mess with their logistics and steal their moon loot! since you know the route, you can jump in on grid using the same route as the drone. wait for the drones to make their run. put up a bubble. pop the drone as it comes out of warp 400km away from the pos. scoop the refined product.drone after drone will continue trying to service the order, each one dropping you more loot. scoop to hauler/carrier. go home.at the very least, you can make their pos fueling nightmare just like it is now. one by one, fuel bay by fuel bay.every bit of this system is voluntary. it can make life a lot easier. it comes with a price."
"2 pos modulation arrayoff-grid pos satellite structure.sized arrays for sized pos's. four arrays per pos. one at 12 o'clock towards star 3, 6, and 9 o'clock. each one is a few thousand km away from the control tower.current pos needs to be cut down a bit stats-wise but able to be made even stronger than current through the addition of arrays. the whole package will have many benefits to the holder, but will come at the price of increased exposure to more mobile threats.roleplayer garbagethe pos modulation array creates a field between the control tower and the array which captures flux in the gravitational tide to create a powerful energy source. the array also acts as a defensive structure by boosting the control tower shields remotely through the energy capture field interface.benefitsyou want to have them because they vastly increase your defensive options as well as making it possible to field a much more resource friendly, even fiercer death star that will take longer to go down. you also want these because they will draw small gangs like a bug-zapper for you to go pvp with in a non-boring fashion =ddrawbacksyou want to attack them because they're more accessible and will slowly bleed the pos if your smaller attacks are left unchecked.intimacy =dto establish lots of goals for small gangs to harass the pos in a costly fashion that prepares for the final assault and makes lots of fun happenings around the pos, there should be a complex relationship of small transactions between the pos and its arrays.pos reinforcedto preserve the current relationship where timezones can't allow a 3am alarm-clock raid to change sov, when the pos goes into reinforced, the arrays go into reinforced as well, thus there's no new advantage to attacking a pos after it's in reinforced.the pos modulation array life cycleyou deploy the tower, and deploy what you want it to support on its own pg. you deploy the arrays, they warp off and deploy, and you set up what you want them to support on their supplemental power grid.because the deathstar has about twice current powergrid, assaulting it head on without touching the arrays would be a nightmare. a few gunners would make fast work of dreads and the remote shield boosting would work completely to counter even a very large fleet. the ammo and stront requirements alone would be huge. the process of reinforcing pos's will be much more challenging to large fleets if they insist on the old road to stront timers.to create a system that would be really fun for ships of all sizes, string out everyone's forces over a large area, and provide diminishing returns for both sides to blob, i've come up with some preliminary ideas.proposed super tower-array intercourse!the tower tries to heal arrays using repair drones which warp around and can be intercepted and shield bursts drawn from it's own shield buffer. indirect attacks on the arrays can thus be used to reinforce the tower.each array diverts its power to creating a shield burst to add to the tower. the bursts start off as little targetable blue dots that coalesce into a bigger ball that grows geometrically. repping these bursts causes them to grow much faster. they can be hunted down easily in the early stages by small ships.the arrays will go into individual reinforced with a high shield recharge rate and capability to receive repairs. this is simply to make it impractical to remove the arrays before the tower is gone. can hold them down, but cannot take them out entirely. defenders of course encouraged to attack the weakest link.to give a tip for the attacker when it comes to diminishing returns, attacking an array will cause the tower to start building up a shield burst, regardless of how much damage you do after you trigger the repair. a free 1m hp hit to the tower if you can shave a few hundred thousand off an array. =d"
"nan - can you clarify how your idea eases logistics? is it just that these off-grid structures reduce the fueling requirements of the pos they're linked to? what substance are they ferry drones moving back and forth and where does it originate?edit - oh whoops, i saw it - so the drones allow you to have a single drop off point for your fuel in a system, and they distribute it as needed to all pos in system.also, in theory i do like the idea of somehow \"raiding\" enemy pos. however, is that fair considering time zones? what's to stop a us timezone force from constantly plundering an australian timezone pos when few or no members are online?"
"the idea of the drones is to allow a higher level of non-involvement in pos logistics if you can keep the roaming threats tamped down and hunt down black ops etc. it's completely voluntary, so if you're under constant attack, you just do pos logistics the old way.i imagine it as the perfect trade-off. if you do more pvp on your borders and in territory sweeps, something fun you can have less pos fueling/resource moving to put up with.i'd like to see them implemented such that anything that has to be ferried from one pos to another in normal operations can be relegated to the drones and leave sov powers to fight in combat ships instead of putting around in hauler rorquals.easing fuel requirementsas far as arrays lowering logistics requirements, have them lower the fuel consumption. imagine them as...giant wind turbines that power the pos in a green peace friendly method. they also can divert their power to boosting the pos shield. i haven't come up with numbers yet because i'm not sure where to start balancing.i'd like the numbers to be at levels where the eased normal fuel consumption is somewhat balanced against being able to be trickily reinforced by a smaller gang. in normal ops, it requires less fuel, but if you use stay at home tactics, a few unanswered bs's will actually raise your fuel bill and eventually disrupt moon mining.combat operationsi'm thinking a lot on how to implement the sov warfare side of this.i haven't really worked out the best system for the arrays when damaged. not sure if the reinforcing model or the incapacitation model is better. for purposes of ensuring the arrays stay in the fight for the final pos showdown functioning as fight decentralization mechanisms i like the reinforced model better.rough draft of array reinforcement modelwhenever an array is damaged below 25% shield, it goes into a shield-recharging reinforced. this requires stront and the pos will attempt to recharge the shield more quickly using its own shield buffer. while in reinfoced, the array does not lend any power, but instead diverts its energy to recharging its own shield. thus an array that is left to heal itself will resume grinding the siege process to a hault.any arrays that are online will begin charging up a shield repair burst to send to the pos. imagine fireflies made of shield energy that's being corralled into a single ball. it starts off as a series of smaller targets that float around at frigate speeds and then coalesce into a larger and larger target before attaining the appropriate size and being dispatched to the pos at a few km/s. the size should be sufficient to make it a capital f*$&! up to ignore the arrays, as if fighting against a group of triaging carriers.since the bursts are targetable, they are nice little sites of constant skirmish activity between enemy and friendly support during siege.since the arrays can be used to suck the life from the pos, they are a small-gang target for combating stay at home tactics as well as a way to fight the pos warfare at the small gang level while keeping your full hand hidden in a safespot until the final tower attack is ready to begin or you choose to engage forces at a particular array. much more room for feints and quick charges.probably a lot of ways to do this, but the implementation should be well thought out such that the arrays are part of the tower fight and can't be blobbed individually as stepping stones on the way to the tower. they should be continuous sites of engagement and require movement from array to array to counter enemy actions at other arrays.the goal is limited commitments and slow escalations across several grids with the threat of being outmaneuvered when one's forces are totally committed too early.about ready to start work on an actual proposal."
"this is a reply to the idea of expanding sovereignty warfare to include objectives for small ships and small gangs. this proposal is terrible.i am not in favor of giving frigates, cruisers, and small gangs expanded roles in fleet operations. frigates already play an essential role in large engagements: tackling. cruisers also have an essential role: support, meaning anti-tackler, repair, or anti-anti-tackler. small gangs even have a role, even though they are not usually in a separate gang from the main fleet: camping gates and stations while the main fleet attacks a pos.small gangs also play an essential role outside of major fleet engagements by disrupting enemy logistics. in fact, this job is essential to achieving ultimate victory, even if it doesn't get much glory.please do not turn 0.0 sovereignty conflicts into \"capture the flag\" or short-duration \"take and hold\" contests. i came to eve for the experience of being part of a vast, intergalactic conflict between major political powers, and that's exactly what i get with the current implementation of sovereignty warfare and major fleet engagements. the finer details of the sovereignty warfare mechanics need tweaking, but not to the extent of diminishing the scale of the conflicts."
"thank god you linked this to me i have no idea where to find the minutes...this is contrary to what was stated in some cases. i don't expect your memory to be any less reflective of your obvious narcissistic disorder than anything else so i'm not surprised to hear you say that.it was pointed out in the meeting and not reflected in the minutes that small groups today already can have an influence in 0.0 and do, whether you want to admit that because it's inconvenient or not. it was also pointed out that there will never be a way to prevent \"the guy with the most ships wins\", among other things. i know because i contributed to that discussion.i didn't have a problem with the minutes until someone decided to take the editorialized and abridged conversations we had and use them as a mandate to do something which wasn't requested. what's your point?"
"the rl analogy was used to illustrate how ridiculous yours was. it wasn't meant to be taken literally.if you want to control gates go do it. the code's already in the game."
"it's pretty clearly requested:it's also clearly stated that ccp wants objectives for small ships on their own as opposed to simply support roles:it really doesn't get much more cut and dry than that. if ccp didn't include your comments in the minutes, it may be because they don't agree with you."
"how about you stick to what you know? i was there. you weren't. did they want to explore other methods? sure. so do i. was it explicitly stated that sov warfare should change in any one particular direction? no. a high level idea was floated in the 20 minutes we were allowed for the topic of fostering a bit more variety. it was never stated that an additional mechanic was required which would allow 10 people to challenge the sov. of thousands. ever.you put together a proposal that is creative. nothing wrong with that. i don't like the proposal and find it unworkable, but that shouldn't take away from the work you've done. that took effort and that's a good thing.:edit: we don't need to go crazy trying to assume as law the editorialized and abridged version of a greatly abridged discussion on a very large topic. that would be stupid."
"here is where i link the concepts i am talking about. specific simple changes to sov mechanicsthe purpose is not to allow small groups to control the tempo or politics of 0.0. and this isn't about allowing people the \"right to exist in 0.0\" this is about allowing small gangs to impact 0.0. the huge hp in pos/anchorables/station serivces require long times, large numbers of caps, or extremely large numbers of pilots to carry out in reasonable times. those three senarios bring with it, unplayable lag. the situation devolves into, \"huge blob is needed to put a system into contension, the only response is to bring an even huger blob\" and thus, the huger blob succeeds because the lag/desynch not necessarily because of tactics.if smaller gangs can contest sov, disrupt money making operations and hit installations affecting life in 0.0, alliances would need to seriously think about where they put their resources, and who they can afford to help. buisness in empire opens up as mercenaries can strike 0.0 alliance installations, mega alliances stay home and can't help each other by bringing everyone they have to 1 system as a number of installations and or systems resources are in contention and the whole structure of 0.0 is aligned to the ones who can help themselves and strategically align with partners who are capable, not by getting the most people but by building the best coalition. thats what the goal should be. this is what 0.0 should be, from a political and combat standpoint, and nobodies specific birthright."
"small gangs already impact 0.0. a well-organized and determined gang of tech 1 and 2 frigates, destroyers, and cruisers can cripple an alliance's general population the pilots trying to make money by living, producing, ratting, and exploring in the alliance's space. in fact, by impeding the member-level income-generating operations of an alliance, these small, roaming gangs make a valuable and necessary contribution to a sovereignty conflict with that alliance.it makes sense that putting a solar system in contention requires a large fleet and major logistics operations. solar systems aren't small although they are the smallest unit of sovereign territory in this game, and they should require a major fleet of capitals, battleships, and support to control.the issue here shouldn't be \"how can we can make this game have a less grand scale,\" but \"what can be done to get the technology i.e., the software and hardware to support properly ccp's vision of a grand scale space conflict?\""
"killing ratters and periodically camping gates to look for targets by random gangs does not affect 0.0 politics/sov and has very little impact as people will just wait till the threat is ceased and then continue. concerted and deliberate attempts to affect or disrupt those assets valuable to 0.0 alliances can only be done by hitting station serivces and pos installations. there is no way what your saying is true. for member level, its the station services, if they can't med clone, refine, fit, members have a serious problem. at the alliance level its the towers used to control sov, act as safe points for members, act as resource gathering, etc. so i do not aggree with what you are saying here one bit. you are clearly missing the point, and i dont know how else to explain this to you. the only time the system or installation is in contension is when it comes out of reinforced. i am clearly making the destinction between the initial attack and the actually fight for the installation as 2 separate events. the way small gangs can take part in 0.0 combat is to address the selection, and initiation of an attack on 0.0 installation/station services. fleets are then used to destroy/control the installation/sov. thus, the members wishing to finish off, or control sov would need sufficient resources. the grand scale sucks, it doesn't work, there is no grand scale at 1 frame per second and for the majority of pilots in 0.0 who complain on a daily basis that the lag is killing their play, clearly somethign with the mechancis needs to be done. you dont wait around for the technology to catch up to finally compliment current mechanics, the current mechanics weren't useful when they were deployed. the whole purpose of the station serivces and moving the anchorables outside shields was so that small gangs could engage these targets. but at the last second, ccp balked, and gave them ridiculous hp to make it not worth the while or realistically for large fleets/caps. thats what needs to be addressed as a primary concern and as a secondary concern the ability of alliances to gang together for the simple goal of defeating lag/desynch by simply inducing it and/or achieving a larger percentage of players actually participating on grid. so sorry, nobody here wants to sit and wait for the technology to catch up, and if it did it still wouldnt completely address the lack of interest small gang pvp has with regards to alliance matters in 0.0. i dont dissaggree that small gangs shouldn't be able to destroy installations and command sov. what i am saying is that small gangs could have the role of initiator in 0.0 being able to dictate points of contension and provide a real impact, not just ganking ratters who are falling asleep or afk."
"tell that to the alliances pl camped into their stations until goons showed up to take sov. some of those alliances were practically into a failure cascade freefall before we even started shooting poses.i guess i am missing the point, because i still don't see why frigates and cruisers need more roles than they already have. either the small ships are in a large fleet playing their roles in a large fleet engagement tackling, anti-tackling, or repairing, or they're in a small gang running around somewhere doing something essential to the overall conflict or even just roaming about and having fun.asked and answered. there will never be a better alternative than bringing more ships to the battle than your opponent. given this fact, ccp should be focused on working on their code and beefing up their hardware, not scrapping a system for which 85% of the work is already done."
"why are you confusing \"small fleet\" with small ships? the diversion is not necessary. nobody said anything about frigates and cruisers, you are confused big time. again, you are bringing up things that have nothing to do with revamping 0.0 for the sake of providing gameplay back to where it should be? there are other proposals with less changes, in fact all i offer to change is simply reduce hp on station services/pos/pos anchorables, and move the cyno jamm away from the pos. pretty simple, nobody would be scrapping anything. again, your not even addressing the issue here just spouting off stuff..."
"ok. you bring your small fleet to shoot at my pos, which is all that's necessary now that you've lowered structure hps. but i bring my slightly larger fleet to prevent you from destroying my pos. you, realizing that i've brought more ships and can destroy your fleet before you can destroy my pos, get more ships into your fleet. obviously, i'm going to do the same. next thing you know, the node is crashing. gee, your changes really solved that problem.it's not the hit points of structures, the amount of fuel in the towers, or the position of a cynojammer that are the problems here. changing those things does nothing to change the facts that you will still need more ships than me in order to win and that we will both keep bringing ships until we exhaust our available resources or the node crashes.fix the network infrastructure, and everything else falls into line.edit: but we can discuss the merits of your proposal in your own thread. i initially posted here to counter the op's ideas about involving small ships and small gangs in contesting sov by turning sovereignty into a short-duration mini-game of \"capture the flag\" or \"take and hold.\" i responded to your post simply to point out that i think this idea being bandied about that small gangs need to be more involved in contesting sov is a red herring. there are already useful and interesting roles for small gangs in a larger sovereignty conflict."
"you are so way off base i am surprised you even said that knowing tri and the tactics like pl, bob, goons and the like employ. are you that unaware? its not about the pos's or anything else.the biggest thing you do is to hit there real infrastructure, the pilots. you stop them from mining, running supplies, and making money you have effectively taken away the means to keep there pos's running and building more materials. without the support of the pilots all this crap about pos's are meaningless. after they been hit by these gangs enough all the bears go to empire. and then after that the morale drops in the crapper and then failcascade!! if it was not effective no one including tri would never ever had used it or create depts just for this. most of the gangs roaming 0.0 are not lark gangs. some are. but most are not. they are there for a purpose and they are very successful. this attitude does not surprise me however, from someone from tri, yea a little most players would not know what these gangs were if they came up and bit them in the ass. even then they are not aware. they just ***** about nano-cloacking ***gots."
"this is definitely the debate that needs to be had. to me the heart of the question was always \"does territory control have to be focused only on pos?\"while there are certainly plenty of ways to improve pos warfare, i believe ccp's goal is not to simply put more variety into pos warfare, but to expand territory warfare to be more than just about pos. and that means that some of the hard benefits that come from owning space fuel efficiency bonuses, the ability to anchor certain territory-shaping structures, etc must be derived from objectives achieved by different activities than just constructing and sieging pos.that's the context i wanted to have the discussion of this proposal in, but i think there's a lot of disagreement about whether that context is even desirable in the first place, so it's good that it's being brought up now.to me, territory-shaping abilities that are governed by small-gang objectives or non-capship objectives can exist alongside territory-shaping abilities governed by pos warfare. i think it makes sense for pos to govern industrial benefits, and for a system like tactical arrays to govern individual system protection-type abilities like cynojammers and system scanners. a small-gang objective system like capturing stargates would be useful alongside those other two to reflect broad in-space military presence across whole constellations.now at this point some people say \"well why don't we just fix pos warfare?\" and that's where i agree with the ccp statement that pos warfare is inherently too limiting in terms of its need for dreads and large numbers of capships to be a truly comprehensive territory control system. it would work fine as one part of a territory control system, but it's unwieldy when it tries to be the whole thing.obviously the current 0.0 powers are good at pos warfare, and know a lot about it. but that doesn't mean that it is the best system all by itself for territory control. figuring out the best territory control system, based on the direction ccp has said they wish to go, is going to involve thinking beyond the current system. it will certainly benefit from the input of those engaging in pos warfare, but we need i think to acknowledge that the goal is to create something bigger and greater than just pos warfare, as opposed to simply improving it, and direct our thinking and debate with that in mind."
"since we are discussing tactics about my proposal, this simple fact of bringing moar ships at least has the prospect of being negated. multiple systems can be hit at short time, large fleets take time to mobilize and move and are easily engaged while enroute, but are extremely difficult to engage when amassed at a lagged out tower. and your simple thesis that small gangs already have plenty to do with sov in 0.0 is about as misguided and ludicrious, further noteworthy coming from a person in a 5000 man alliance. as for the impact of terrorizing a sov holders entire region, killing ratters/destroying disrupting logistic chains, that doesn't sound like small gang combat, in fact its the exact opposite. it sounds moar like moving 1 alliance into the doorstep of another, completely different senarios and therefore your analysis is fail"
"obviously i don't agree. of the two of us, you're the one who proved himself to be full of it. you've kicked your credibility to the curb while attempting to discredit me. my credibility remains intact.what you're doing right now bears a strong resemblance to a guy back pedaling madly while cupping both hands over his family jewels in an effort to minimize the incoming damage. you might consider manning up and apologizing rather than trying to drag me with you into your self made mud puddle.windjammer"
"it's not really a question of credibility. it's just about whether the op is too vague to support, which it remains. it really needs to be cleaned up to clearly state what it is recommending to ccp."
"i'm not happy this thread has devolved into a personal credibility fight either. it happens sometimes in these threads.some of your suggestions are interesting and i'm sure you'd get commentary if you started a thread in assembly hall using your ideas as a proposal. alternately, or in addition to doing that, you might want to post them in ships and modules for discussion.windjammer"
"i don't blame you for not reading the whole thread. it's gone off track on these last couple pages. the credibility issue is the result of elanmorin6 trying to discredit me in an attempt to stop me from posting.your assertion regarding the op is bang on and is the main point of most of my posts in this thread.windjammer"
"well, i support this thread, simply because i want the issue further discussed. here my views:carriers are the new bs, who claims otherwise doesnt really fly them i suppose. i myself are a fully skilled carrier pilot means all drones/support modules/everything on at least lvl4, so i spent my fair share of skilltime for it, and i'm part of this \"silent majority\" he speaks off i rarly post on forums.i participated in 0.0 warefare since back in 04 its not my only character and experienced all from bs blobs to titan warefare live and in contact with the fcs organizing the fleets for them.the moment i finally knew that carriers/moms where overpowered was when i saw them in action by groups like mc, who really mastered this kind of warefare, and with a 100man cap-blob cleaned out the north in about 1 month. i had my carrier-character this one and my bs-character, and the bs-char was useless against the cap-blob, really frustrating.after that we finally got the titan nerf and a part of the carrier/mom nerf. we got the \"cyno-jammers\" to make bs needed again. its still not enough in my books. make carriers different, that has to be on ccps agenda.i for sure dont want the carrier beeing nerfed to death, i simply spent too much time skilling for it, but i dont want it to be a replacement for my bs either. this spring i found myself only flying caps every day to make 0.0 logistics, to fight, to support my corp/alliance. the carrier could do just everything, and better then everything else well i trained for a rorqual too after the cargo-nerf. my carrier-char made my real pvp-char obsolete apart from small gang-warefare, and it was not rare that, when defending, even a small gang cynoed in a carrier/mom.long story short: go for it and discuss it with ccp, they will find solutions, but tell them the issue is still there."
"yes a post every other day on the same topic is clearly spam, you've pinpointed it, the very definition of spam. now begone apeface."
"if every single complete carebear left the game tomorrow the game would go an as before and probably be a lot better.if every single pvp'er left the game tomorrow the carebears that are left playing would soon see the game become extremely boring.if you think about it i'm sure you can understand why."
"if either care bears... or pirates... left tomorrow, then ccp would lose a huge profit.and they certainly don't want that.that's why pvp and pve content will remain in play. otherwise, they'll lose playerbase, and the almighty dollar or whatever currency you use."
"i think you missed the point somewhat.the important part is that you have to penalise the players in the starter corps to encourage them to leave and join either new npc corps, or player corps.restrictions similar to trial accounts should apply to starter corps."
"i fully support this.in fact, i would like to get some answers to the following questions:what is ccp's vision of eve for the next 18 months?why does ccp want people to move to 0.0 when the only incentive is pvp? ccp's oft-stated desire is to get people out to 0.0 and the game has been around a few years by now. what, exactly, is the hold-up? why is ccp dealing with suicide ganking in such a cackhanded manner?is eve being used as a testbed for ideas to be incorporated into their world of darkness mmo? if so, why is harsh universe in space being used to testbed ideas for a 14-year-old emo kids with silly hair emmo?why is ccp dealing with problems that the csm presented from the middle - at best - of the prioritised list? what happened to ,y'know, the more important stuff?how hard is it to write a statement of purpose anyway?"
"man, its been a crappy day and i needed a good laugh.the op's post fit the bill nicely.you actually think you are going to get a statement of accountability from a company like ccp?!?!? yeah. and you can jet to other planet's on moonbeams too..... seriously though. it sounds like the op, and many of the other people in this thread have been buying a little too much into the democratic illusion ccp has spun with the creation of the csm.the csm, though democratically created, have no power. the only thing they can do more than us in the forums is get a few developers that choose to show up at the meetings face-to-face and ask them questions and/or make suggestions. that's it. nothing else.wake up people. we as players live in a capitalistic driven totalitarian dictatorship. that is the cold reality. you can demand accountability from ccp until your blue the face. you won't get it.but, what the hell.... i'll give you a support for having the deluded moxy to ask for it in the first place."
"always good reasoning. the thing is just that even pvping solo is interacting with people.so, in part, all this swarming and blobbing can be blamed on people finding soloing or small-ganging way too unprofitable."
"waah waah"
"i'll admit the dev blog seems like serious overkill for the issue, but the idea of addressing it is in eve's general nature.at the risk of repeating the rather bs 'eve is a cold dark place', i think people tend to forget is it's supposed to be cold and dark all around, not just for targets. eve's mechanics tend to heavily favor the attacker all around and sometimes this needs to be rebalanced a bit esp as attack ships have been getting cheaper and more powerful while defenders esp industrial ships have been pretty much unchanged for quite some time.sounds like what they want to do is slap the gank-bares down a bit while still leaving the fundamental mechanism in place so the careless carebares can still get ganked if the target is worth while.will the proposed changes do this? eh, hard to say. i kinda doubt it though. is the push behind them against eve's history.. no.. not really. pirates want easy targets any rational attacker will, non pvp players want easy counter and escape. right now the mechanic is heavily in the favor of the pvp player, and even with these changes it will still be heavily in their favor. mission ships will be harder to take down but really they were being popped with way too much ease in the first place due to the problems of pve being so differnt then pvpcarebares are not getting as much out of this change as people think. this isn't even parity."
"i would like clarification too, this is old ccp devs attitude:"
"i've done both, repeatedly, while on my own, and so far i haven't lost a bs in lowsec. you just need to have a clue, and a scout tbh. by scout i don't mean an alt either - i mean either a friend, or just a covops ship in station which you can use to check for camps before jumping. as for undocking, not many people can kill you inside the 30 seconds it takes to redock in a properly tanked bs."
"i'd not mind clarification, but overall i'm seeing a lot of classic whining when particular changes affect particular people. the op is particularly over-the-top in classic forum style, thrashing around as if the world is coming to an end.after these changes, eve will still be a pvp game; it will still be as much of a sandbox as it was a year ago you do know what a sandbox means right? that is: non-linear with no end-game, lets you do whatever you want, and given the current subscriber rate, i'd say we can still call it a niche game.what precisely has changed? the nano changes change pvp; i don't think you can argue it changes it to non-pvp. the suiciding changes only affect people in high-sec anyway, and if you're any kind of proper pirate, you'll already be at -10. that was, nay is, the goal of many a jolly-roger and a mark of someone to take seriously.in fact, if you'd read the blog, the penalty for fighting in low-sec is lowering! how is this a 'nerf', for god's sake?so, seriously, what's changing? what is the big deal? what, pray tell, is causing the world to come crashing down and care-a-lot stars to explode in null-sec? so far i've missed this major change from eve to hello kitty.pirates have always had challenges. they get barred from high-sec, they get sentry gun fire, they get neutrals able to attack them without gaining gcc i'm talking worst case here - ccp clearly never intended piracy to be easy. you're still here after all those changes which were in long before i even joined the game, and yet this pretty minor suicide change suddenly has you throwing your toys out the pram? bizarre."
"what would the real -10 pirates care? you havent got a clue.immunity . a pvp free zone in ihighsec unl;ess you sign up for pvp in trhe faction ware go go pvp flag on butan"
"i highly doubt ccp will even respond. it's rather obvious they don't really care at all."
"i share op's opinion. would be nice to know where this is all going."
"agree with op"
"i'd like to paint you a picture. there is a game, it has changes and the maker of this game has requests for theirs reasons or demands for reconsideration all the time... do they a respond to a 3 page thread on the forumsorb respond via devblog like they shouldas for the direction of the game i'd like to point out several things as a 0.0 ratter on one account and an carebear on this one. i like pvp due to carebearness i can afford to have a 10 stack of abaddon's in tash just take them out whenever to the wide open spaces of the world. there's a whole lot of gate camps and blobs infact i've never lost an abaddon to less then 5 people ganging up on me... ever. so i fully support some mixing of the pot which is what ccp really seems to be doing... oh and as a side note if you ever watch a devblog or a fanfest video the devs are probably the guys in nano's and gankboats roaming around lowsec laughing at the tears of their victims so i doubt they're carebears."
"that's all we ask for. exactly the point of this thread. glad you identified it. oh wai...you ever saw ccp fear or ccp noxchcggsd or whatever his name is at the fan fest ganking carebears? i haven't. before, oveur would give us a dev blog full of \"adapt of die n00b\" where it was clear that ccp's vision still was a game that was harsh and unforgiving for lazy people. recently oveur has been replaced by no-name devs with no past record who suddenly speak of war decs being akin to griefing, and people having no way to avoid suicide ganks. times have changed. the devs have changed. has the vision changed? that's what we're asking here."
"wow, you guys are really going to freak out when they make low-sec safer than no sec."
"those who have read my posts over the last 2 years will know that i have always been ready to give ccp the benefit of the doubt. i have always argued against hysterical abuse, been strongly supportive of the dev's right to guide the game according to their vision, been nothing but orthodox in my advocacy of personal responsibility, consequences for actions, risk vs reward: i loved what eve stood for and defended that dogma passionately.call me a fanboy if you will: i played the game, loved it, spread the word, got many friends to subscribe, started additional accounts, enjoyed winning, survived losing, helped new players, ganked old players, pirated, fought wars, mined, missioned, ratted, rose from the depths of pvp ineptness to the dizzy heights of pvp mediocrity, made plans for the long term - loved the possibility of making meaningful plans for a meaningful long term. by any meaningful measure, i have contributed a lot to this game.without false pride, i say that i, and those like me, do deserve at least a clear, honest statement of where this game is going and what the devs' vision of the next couple of years is."
"regardless of differing opinions, balancing, and how one feels about any particular direction, i utterly agree with this statement.eve is a long investment game. the ccp pr machine if not devs, then at least some offical rep should be involved in these kind of questions. a game like this lives or dies based off player retention, and uncertainty is never good for such things. 9 time out of 10 even if people don't like the answer they get it is still a better situation then no answer or some vauge non-answer.for referenc, i work at a game company and have found time and time again that giving customers honest bad news about the dirrection things are going always goes over far better then keeping them in the dark, even if the end changes are what they wanted in the first place."
"on a side note since i just realized this... do we really want corporate sponsorship in eve for events. i mean who wants to be watching the next alliance tourne and see the coca-cola titan warp in and go disco?... hmmmm"
"i'm not sure why you raise the topic, but i'm all for it. if branding the inside of every station with coca-cola logos meant they got to build a server that can actually handle the player base, i'll go buy a case of the stuff right now."
"what he said. i am used to ignoring advertising in real life, i am capable of doing it in game as well!"
"there's so many reasons this won't fly, that i'm only going to bother bringing up one:how do you think this will affect the isk price of gtcs? imagine there being a new player in eve with really deep pockets, and he is hungry for gtcs. really hungry, with billions of isk.there's a limited market of gtc sellers.can you spell 'gtc isk price inflation'? imagine a rocket on its way out of the atmosphere.now imagine all the lost players that could only play cause they manage to gather up 400m isk every two months."
"i'll agree with that somewhat, though i think it could be counteracted by ccp making it known to new players that there's a eula-legal way to buy isk, which would probably increase the supply pretty dramatically. that said, i don't see what other problems there would be. don't assume it's obvious - if you have reasons, share them."
"i think that it is a bit of a 'slippery slope' logical fallacy. how many gtc do you think this would buy a month? and after initial launch, how much will the amount donated in isk begin to decrease, thus binging down the number of gtc for charity even more.but if it is all that great a concern, then a cap would simply have to be put in place to limit an artificial change of the open market price of gtc. something i'm sure ccp would insist on any way if it was enacted."
"donating isk in-game -> donating real-world currencyprobably one of the most creative ideas ever to come out of an mmorpgyou've got my support"
"and it's a good opinion, actually. certainly considering that as a covert vessel, and using tracking disruptors, you can argue that the pilgrim shouldn't have too much of a signature in the first place.however, the fact that its hp is a little on the low side compared to the other recons as is, and that it has such limited range because it should have higher firepower. what's the point of a sneak attacker if there's no punch to the attack? not everyone should have to resort to hacs and battlecruisers, or clumps of frigates, to take down those same ships and support vessels, because you simply might not have the time or opportunity. and since hacs seem to be losing even more ability to fight with the speed patch, it would be good to have some alternative...stealth bombers aren't the u-boat, 'glass cannon' attackers in this game, really. because they can't warp unseen. force recons are, and should have some attack power for this purpose.then again, that they don't have too much of a chance as is can also be blamed somewhat on local channel..."
"pilgrim is a difficult ship to fix without completely redesigning it unfortunately. while a range bonus on the nos/neuts would certainly put it inline with the other recons, make it a bit more flexible, and go a long way toward directly and indirectly solving the worst of it's problems, i'm against radical nerfs/buffs of any kind in this game, and to give it the range bonus would also require taking something away to keep it balanced...and the pilgrim doesn't have much it can afford to give- it's drone bonus and nos amount bonus are perhaps too high a price to pay.given it's inherent flaws i.e. short range, limited usefulness of it's ew and cap/grid issues which all tie into each other in one way or another though, i believe the pilgrim can be given some buff without taking anything from it, and the subtle approach with a few percent here and there is always the best way to change things. more cap and grid to improve it's tank and ability to use it's bonused high slot systems are commonly expressed ideas which would certainly improve the ship and are not over the top, as would the sig radius/drone durability idea. i think these types of ideas are the ones we should be supporting and which would have the most chance of being implemented.ccp, acknowledge the problems with the pilgrim. it's suffered a lot of damage because of your wild sledghammer nerfs in the past, and this ship never deserved any of them."
"i'll summarize this at once.suggestion:1 make all force recon ships close-range. leave the long-range high-power ecm role to combat recon. make the ships distinct, and give each class a purpose.2 give all recon ships one more slot.3 increase the firepower of all force recon ships significantly, carefully buff their stats appropriately, and fit them into specific roles.4 allow covert jump bridges to ignore cynosural jammers.reasoning:many people have been bemoaning the ****tiness of the pilgrim in text and voice both while i've been present, and whether if through subsequent analysis of the ship's gameplay and stats itself, or just sheer bandwagon-ism, i've slowly begun joining this crowd of irates of the caribbean. mostly because i think that ships that cloak are curious, fun and a lovely variation away from the all the other 'mwd or die' combat concepts. actually, you can somewhat ignore that last part, because it's not true. but i wish it were!anyway, further investigation, better put as an inability not to be enlightened or at least informed by the amount of verbose crankiness going around, has gradually led me to a somewhat more different conclusion than i thought that i'd end up with from the start. this is the part where i take cover behind a large screen and light a smoke, while waiting for people to get over their imminent outrage.it's not the pilgrim that needs a boosting kick in the arse. the whole force recon class is redundant and should either be done away with, or taken somewhere else entirely.you can stop grinding your teeth now.what led me to this conclusion then? well, it was the lack of range and a very useful ecm, and the close-range sneak-attack playstyle that all pilgrim pilots are forced to utilize. it seems to me that every other ship in the recon class possesses some sort of range capabilities. only that the force recons forego the ability to actually take out their enemy for a cloak instead. but why? with such things as local channel, powerful tanks that are unbreakable to them among their very target ships, ships able to easily outrun them, mwds, limitations on ecm, a pointed vulnerability toward missile ships, a lack of tank on their own, slow speed, the lack of usage of covert jump bridges and many more other factors... why the hell would anyone choose to fly a force recon, besides the ability to maybe disappear, and the cool visual of cloaking?there is no reason.my suggestion has one line of reasoning: force recon ships are bastard children, an inconsistent class without much of a purpose. either, ccp should re-design things and let the combat recons fill the intended role of the strong, direct ecm support, and turn the force recons into the natural deep-strike ships that they seem to have been thought of as from the beginning, a consistent and understandable advancement from stealth bombers, high on firepower, close-range only and using their ecm more than their tank to avoid retaliation. a technical ship made to cater to a more distinct playstyle that i know quite a few people want to enjoy in eve.or they can just skip them entirely."
"aren't force recons the sneaky kind and combat recons the combat type?"
"no use in sneaking up on someone if all it's going to amount to is either costing you ammo, or costing your ship.yes, of course they are excellent for sneaking up on people and holding them in place while you call in bs/bc fire support. but holding them in place doesn't always work. and you don't always have that option.and force recons are still the most solo-oriented ships in the game. this should be for a reason."
"so you want to give them more power? i don't think i grasp what you're trying to explain."
"solo-oriented does not mean solo-viable. not in face of a whole lot of ships out there. a whole lot, in particular sacrileges, drakes, myrmidons, caracals, huginns, cyclones, all the damn interceptors, cerberi, ishtars, ravens...mostly, i'm just hoping to give things a bit of distinction and a role."
"i support this idea : however, some might look at force recons as one thing : cloaked cynoers for black ops hence the cyno gen. bonus. however, i don't know anyone who runs black ops due to them being currently useless, and i doubt anyone wants to use a 80+m isk ship as a cyno ship i see it as a \"jack of all trades, master of none\" class - it can cloak, it can selectively in some types jam, it can cyno cheaper, it can be nano-ed, it can be used in a fleet, or small gangs, it can be used solo, it can be used to grief, its a tackler, its a recon, its used for black ops...etc..etc..the list goes on.the ships need looking at. black ops is useless, and so that makes the primary role of these ships useless. these ships need reviewing, and altering. either make them have a stronger tank so if cynoing and found, they can withstand a little bit before dying, or allowing the ship to be the only ship to drop a cyno, and then be able to still operate warp away, cloak, stick around to provide support etc, or remove the cyno bonus, and give us a a bonus based on the ship type.these ships needs to be made a master one of trade, reconnaissance. the ability to get behind enemy lines, gather information, and get back safely. dispatching any small ships that could relay information back, before they can. its not meant to roam belts and dispatch ratters, or tackle huge gangs of ships solo although...that would be nice .ffs ccp, at least some help with them would be nice. or can i change all my skill points from them onto something else?"
"well, i think that a ship that is supposed to get behind enemy lines and break things really ought to be higher on firepower, but your idea of them isn't far from excellent either. i'd like to reiterate some words seen before though...i can't say that i agree completely with this, but it's another alternative. still, i would much rather have a solo-powerful assault ship, but not as resilient as the assault cruisers. one where you have to walk a knife's edge, try and attack single ships, hold on to your balls and hope that your target doesn't know how to fight you or has support coming in. a natural continuation of the stealth bomber."
"yeah that shocked me as well"
"yes. for a little bit. then people will smarten up and not jump expensive missionships into lowsec without scouting. so wait, the lowsec/0.0 corps are all going to band together? **** no. most of the market transactions and such would still go on in hisec, do you honestly think that the miners in lowsec/0.0 are going to want to restrict themselves from that? **** no. it's in their best interests to get the minerals into hisec to market. what makes you think every corp in lowsec/0.0 is a pirate corp? some corps will camp the gates for all the tasty lewts...others will try to break, evade via jump freighters or brs or otherwise circumvent the camps. an eve with constant fights between pirates and non-pirates over essential paths into hisec space is like a wet dream."
"for sure, but then what if they can't afford another ship? do they grid lower level missions till they can afford another ship, or just quit?i don't think they will band together, tbh i expect them to fight more, since more isk will flow in lowsec and 0.0 then ever before so it's cheaper for them to do so,wet dream it is, i agree with you on that part, but jf and brs can't supply the empire market @ even 50% of it's current use at a guess that would mean that 0.0 and lowsec corps and alliances would need to mine the same ammout as current empire player base and get it to empire, as well as pew pew the hell out of each other. <- that isn't going to ever happen.prices will rise, and a lot of empire corps will find themselves unable to build ships due to lack of isk to buy what they need to do it, since they can't get it as freely or if they mine it for free expect time as before.my corp works out of lowsec, i know how to get round camps, but i remember what it was like to mine and build bs in empire. i'm not saying nothing needs to be done or even empire don't need looking at, it does. this is just to much.i jsut hope i have the quotes in the right place lol."
"how do \"jump freighers\" instantly solve any problem raised?they can only jump so far, before they run into a bottleneck gate. that is, a gate that leads into high sec, where their cyno can't get ahead and lead them into.so the huge alliances, you know... the ones that love overpowering the competition by bringing a dozen titans to a fight... start camping those few bottlenecks. then you bring a large fleet to try and disperse them long enough to sneak some ore and minerals through.only now the freighter pilots can't get anywhere, because of webbers, scramblers, and the rediculous lag from having so many people in one place.sure, they might make it through... this time. but what about the constant supply of materials that any empire players would need to manufacture items.this idea started out looking like \"let's make high sec only for total noobs. everyone else must go low sec\".but it's rapidly been shown to be \"only those folks who've has the path 5 years to get control of low sec... will have any authority. kneel before their might!\""
"people have randomly and stupidly suicided their **** before. it has happened before and it keeps happening and it will happen in the future. just because there might be a few people who think \"lol oh **** i can make money in lowsec. lets jump my expensive missionraven in there for a quick peek. oshi gatecamp\" is no reason to stall positive change in the game. i don't think what you're saying will happen, but just to be sure you could add asteroids that give small quantities of lowsec/0.0 ores to hisec...so it's possible to build **** in hisec without stuff from lowsec/0.0...as long as the yield was small in comparison to the lowsec/0.0 ores it would be good.why would huge alliances camp hisec/lowsec gates? what possible benefit would it be to them? besides, even if alliances did do that for some reason even though they've never done it before, then they would still bring their own minerals into empire. regardless, as i said above, you could just allow small-yield asteroids that give zydrine/megacyte/nocx/etc in hisec."
"supported because of two things:lowers hi-sec rewards, making low and 0.0 relatively more profitable.slows the general trend of isk inflation by clamping a major isk faucet."
"no it isn't but change like this on such a massive scale isn't positive change it's tipping the ballance scales completly over to lowsec and 0.0. empire ore should be looked at, empire should run dry so to speak unless supported by lowsec and 0.0 not dependent on it."
"this is what i was thinking as well. why this desire to force players into low-sec if they don't want to go there?. why force players into pvp if they don't want to pvp if they can help it?.why should i care what makes pirates happy?most definitely not supported!.ab"
"far from it. in my entire time in eve, i've engaged another person in unconsensual pvp only once...and i lost. i'm just now getting my pvp chops, and my win/loss ratio has yet to be in the black. i'm a fw pilot, but before that i was pretty much a hi-sec mission runner myself.i'm suggesting this for several reasons, really. first, the pvp community particularly the low-sec pirate community has taken several jabs recently, and i think it's time to throw them a bone.second is that i realized just how easy i had it when i was mission running...how much income i was making without any appreciable expenses...now that i have to afford a fw habit. call it perspective.and let me go ahead and address exactly why i, a person who is decidedly anti-pirate, should...i'll tell you why. i played uo almost from launch. loved loved loved that game, but hated getting ganked and robbed. i played for months with a \"victim\" mentality, getting more and more ****ed every time i got pk'd. i was the perfect spokesperson for the felucia/trammel split a major patch that split every server into two \"shards\", one pvp and one pve, but before the split took effect my eyes were opened by a guild calling itself the \"skara brae rangers\".these cats took me in, and taught me how to engage the pks on my terms. they taught me how to equip, how to fight and basically removed the flight/panic reflex that had caused me to suck in buckets at pvp in the past. i dies, they died, and we laughed about it...and that took away my perfectionist shame at \"losing\" a fight. it was probably one of the best times i ever had online.when the tram/fel split did finally go through, i still thought it wouldn't be such a bad thing...although i really didn't know which shard i'd end up living on. well, as it turned out, the answer was \"neither\".the split created one shard that was great because of the abundance of creative and friendly folks, and unplayable because of the total lack of excitement imagine that...the threat of getting jumped was exciting after all. it created another that was great because it was dangerous and difficult, and totally unplayable because it degenerated into mindless **** talking, teabagging and general asshattery without any shred of soul.i've seen this elsewhere as well. planetside could have been great if it had some of those more gentle souls that give mmos all their flavor. swg could have been great if the pvp community hadn't been left unsupported and virtually stillborn for years. i could go on, but i think it can be summed up as the yin yang of this genre...no pvp community and a game has no heart. no \"carebear\" community and a game has no soul. true greatness is only achieved when both exist in equal measure, and particularly when both are allowed to comingle with each other.right now, we have two separate communities that live on opposite sides of the 0.5/0.4 wall. i really think that needs to change for the good of the game."
"wouldn't work, would be a marketing nightmare.what your plan would do is pretty much close the game to any new player.ship prices would triple in no time possibly more.markets would run dry would take a while on some things.in essence its a bad plan."
"worst idea since nge...."
"a better idea would be to have ccp randomly ban 1/3-1/2 of their paying subscribers.that would surely get things rolling!"
"after the general rabble over people suiciding ships and not getting insurance for them, and how this is \"unrealistic\" i feel we should embrace this new-found want for a more realistic approach towards insurance in the world of eve-online.the main factor in a differential between insurance cover in eve and that of the average 21st century nodding-dog-type insurance company is of course risk assessment, personally i fly a lot of cloaked ships and generally watch intel channels and i am pretty careful when it comes to flying ships, i also fly a scimitar which makes me a doctor one of the lowest insurance categories and i am a very careful pilot with a pretty low claims amount which should make my premiums a lower amount.the other thing is the lack of products, with only one product being released in the last 5 years and might i add a monopoly of the market, which is not that good for inspiring growth in the market i am unable to get basic fire and theft cover, saying that i do believe that fire cover is covered because a megathron of mine was spurting out mega flames this time, but one time a ship of mine got jacked from a pos, man i was only gone 5 minutes and the lack of a place for keys in my capsule left me in quite a predicament, i would like this type of cover as an option.of course other limiting factors will need to be taken into consideration like on my terms of conditions of employment i am not covered in the case of war, invasion, revolution or a similar event or in the case of using my vehicle in the area of aircraft are found to be parked, taking off or landing.as long as those things are all cleared up we can all have a more realistic insurance system, this would be a good idea for the general improvement of eve and for a more immersive environment."
"yeah, i agree. i was well annoyed last time someone keyed my zealot."
"holy god look how dumb you are. read the dev blog. point to where they say anything at all about these changes being for realism issues."
"remove insurance for global criminals in high-sec 0.5 - 1.0 already where's the realism in my getting insurance using my ship which goes against the law apparently according to concord.i personally hate suicide ganking to the core and find it stupid, i've only done it once and that was against someone who was mining 23/7 in a system and left nothing but veldspar in it. after i killed him he warped from belt to belt, back to station to dock and repeat for hours wonder why... macrominer perhaps? this was an more then obvious macrominer which in my opinion justifies what i did that time. but this was in high-sec so yes it doesn't make sense that i get insurance back on my ship performing an illegal action with \"police\" concord in system."
"couple of questions for you guys drawing parralels to rldo i get insurance <U+FFFD>n rl if i set fire to my car with police there? this for the selfdestructing ppldo i get insurance in rl if i drive my car to iraq and it get blown up by either insurgents or us military? 0.0 pplno i dont so why should you get that in eve or do you see how off the wall you are when comparing rl to eve?"
"well if you feel like commiting suicide and going to 0.0 just for the fun of it go do it.but in high-security space when you suicide-gank others insurance shouldn't apply, simple as that.edit: ok time too make this deeper.if you are dumb enough to commit suicide too go too 0.0 i don't care have your insurance, but when you suicide gank someone you get insurance+the drops of whoever you kill which is easy money without effort and that isn't eve. now removing insurance will probably make many of these... stop. some will continue too try do it since there are ships out there worth taking on with 7 battleships because he might be in a mega-pimped out battleship."
"my point is if you validate your point by saying : \"it is so in rl\" why shouldnt theese policies count aswell ? or do you only want rl comparison when it suits your needs?and if you didnt notice i said nothing about suiciding my reply was towards the \"lets remove insurance its such a good idea\" while none off you actually think your ideas trough."
"no i never said that but read what i said exept for that real life **** which i obviously shouldn't have added since people get hooked up on it. does it make sense too you? the whole system with suicide ganking atm?"
"it makes as much sense as the concept of getting \"insurance\" on something that is almost certainly going to be destroyed."
"i am confused i am almost certain i didnt adress my first reply to anybody specific but to the community as a whole, im just making a valid point in a thread about insurance when you say a you must say bit wasnt me who where rambling about eve insurance needs to be inline with rl im just saying you cant leave out some rl insurance terms while just grapping what suits you.if you want insurance to resemble rl then you must take in the other factors aswell thats my point do you get it now? its not a pro suicide response mmmm k?"
"goons against suiciding mechanics that made me chukle hehe"
"good question, people self destructing the ship should not get an insurance payout, and again getting involved in any military conflict faction warfare, 0.0 should be exempt or they should pay higher premiums for not looking after their property."
"only one problem by implementing this you shut out any and all new players that dont sell gtc's from alliance and faction warfare, as this will be for the rich ppl eve think about how many bs you would loose during 1 alliance campaign add it up and see how much isk you would need to actually just participate.heres another question : how many poor ppl or ppl living under the poverty line in rl have full insurance on health and property?"
"then yes. you shouldn't get insurance for setting your own car on fire. that thing you said which makes no sense going too iraq thing is somethign worth discussing, i would say suit yourself but in eve it would be hard because the game cant know if you go out too 0.0 to die intensionally or actually try to survive. but i guess suicide ganking is in line with setting my car on fire.so what about we quit real-life stuff now and continue on with the game discussion hmm?"
"insurance as it stands in the game atm, is unrealistic and it just provides a gamey sometimes exploitable tactic to not just cut your losses but nearly avoid them altogether. it's one of the reasons you see 150 bs fleets suicide jump into a 150 bs gatecamp.tbh there is no need for insurance except for very limited cases which could be taken care in other ways. just remove it from the game and things will change for the better."
"remove insurance entirely plz. it will cut down on blobbing and add consequences to everyone's actions, not just suicide gankers."
"please add realistic insurance policies with realistic exclusions of coverage. also, please give the only insurance company in the game a standard policy of denying all claims, and only paying out if the insured appeals. oh yeah, and don't forget the snarky or bored or inept customer service representatives that insureds have to deal with in order to appeal a denial of coverage. tia"
"i would also like to see doctors employed by the insurance company following you around, video taping you, all to try to prove that you are faking any injury you've sustained. these doctors could replace the convoys constantly exiting high sec stations."
"i laughed.but yeah. do this. but i don't quite think that inept should go in the calculation. not on capsuleer level..."
"my previous post is a bit facetious, but i am seriously in favor of changing how insurance works. the insurance company should base the premiums on a player's history e.g., have you lost a lot of ships? well, then insurance won't be cheap and where the ship will primarily be flown it costs more to insure a ship for use in 0.0 than in .5 or higher.if premiums increase as one loses more and more ships, new players should still be able to afford to insure their ships while they are young, presumably haven't lost many if any ships, and have most of their assets tied up in the one or two ships they own. as they mature, steadily lose more ships because it seems like you're always losing a ship in some way or another, and obtain greater liquidity, then they will be able to survive the loss of an uninsured ship without ending up broke.it also makes sense that an insurance company would demand a higher premium to insure a ship that is to be used in relatively risky endeavor such as traveling through or fighting in 0.0 as opposed to futzing about in empire space."
"do this."
"i approve of this idea as well. while it will regrettably not hinder surprise pvp in any way, i expect to see returns on stolen ships in the near future."
"ahhh, someone else agreeing with me about insurance. about time ffs.yes, insurance should be given out to everyone, or else you are going to have to look at all the other crazy reasons why people get insurance.the only reason i can think of to nerf insurance on concord related instances is to nerf suicide ganking.any other reason and you open up a huge can of worms and even with just a flat out nerf reason the can of worms is half open and is spilling all over the floor."
"i'll keep this as simple as possible. there are two types of alts you encounter in eve - the first is basically a second \"main\", one a person trains up to do things like fly a falcon, mission-run, or conduct industry with. then, there's the second variety, ones that are created using the other two slots on an account.the latter variety serve two annoying purposes in and out of game. first, they are used to scout dangerous systems with no real risk of loss, thanks to their free clones and rookie ships - the only thing they lose upon being ganked by a camp is time getting back to the site. in addition to that, they're used to troll on the forums, to post stupid topics without fear of being linked to their main and having to backup their words. in short, anonymity on the internet.my proposal is simple and elegant. come a major game patch, say ambulation where we will have to redesign our characters' looks anyways, let each account designate one character to keep, and have the others discarded. a supplemental option would be say a free, one-time character transfer to another paying account without a main, if they wanted to keep that alt.this would have a few effects. first, it would cut down on the ease with which alt trolls and scouts could be made, forcing people to either post with their mains and be held accountable for what they do and post, or make them get trial accounts repeatedly.i'm not saying this would remove alt scouts entirely, or eliminate faceless forum posts. what i am saying, however, is that it would be more annoying for them to do what they're doing, and may discourage the more casual ones among them. coupled with other secondary efforts like better moderation, it may make a significant impact and improve the quality of discussion here. case in point, this combined with the \"initiative\" ongoing in caod might clean things up quite a bit.ps, won't be monitoring this thread closely. feel free to post other ideas you may have, refine this a bit, whatever."
"since this is my first time raising an issue, i thought i would start with a small one with a fairly simple fix.i noticed the other day while abusing my agents lp store, but why are the empire and lower end faction mods running with different stats?e.g.energized thermic membrane and all the other specific membranesamarr navy - 25tf cpu / -40% resist / 1mw gridammatar navy - 25tf cpu / -40% resist / 1mw gridkhanid navy - 25tf cpu / -40% resist / 1mw gridgallente navy - 25tf cpu / -37.5% resist / 1mw griddark blood - 25tf cpu / -40% resist / 1mw gridshadow serpentis - 25tf cpu / -37.5% resist / 1mw gridtrue sansha - 25tf cpu / -40% resist / 1mw gridenergized adaptive nanoamarr navy - 30tf cpu / -22.5% resist / 1mw gridammatar navy - 30tf cpu / -22.5% resist / 1mw gridkhanid navy - 30tf cpu / -22.5% resist / 1mw gridgallente navy - 30tf cpu / -20% resist / 1mw griddark blood - 30tf cpu / -22.5% resist / 1mw gridshadow serpentis - 30tf cpu / -20% resist / 1mw gridtrue sansha - 30tf cpu / -22.5% resist / 1mw gridok, i thought, maybe it's just the armour resist mods that the gallente and serps are getting shafted on, but then it just got weirder:medium armour repairerdomination - 144 activation / 21tf cpu / 288 hp rep / 12s cycle / 150mw gridrepublic fleet - 144 activation / 21tf cpu / 288 hp rep / 12s cycle / 150mw gridgallente navy - 160 activation / 21tf cpu / 320 hp rep / 12s cycle / 150mw gridshadow serp - 160 activation / 21tf cpu / 320 hp rep / 12s cycle / 150mw gridamarr navy - 180 activation / 21tf cpu / 360 hp rep / 12s cycle / 150mw gridammatar navy - 180 activation / 21tf cpu / 360 hp rep / 12s cycle / 150mw griddark blood - 180 activation / 21tf cpu / 360 hp rep / 12s cycle / 150mw gridkhanid navy - 180 activation / 21tf cpu / 360 hp rep / 12s cycle / 150mw gridtrue sansha - 180 activation / 21tf cpu / 360 hp rep / 12s cycle / 150mw gridso, now we have the same effective item working at different cap/amount repped across the board over multiple races/factions...wtf is going on here?i could show more examples of this, from different modules all over the place, but i think you all get the point - why are lp awards being valued differently depending on which race/faction you decide to fly for? why the disparity in the modules' stats?i guess the simple issue here is, why aren't they all the same metalevel and thus have equal stats if they all belong the the same tier of items? can we have parity please?"
"and since i can't support it with the original post, here's a random alt i created with a cool name"
"they're supposed to be different."
"it's intentional. amarr and derivativesammatar, khanid, blood, sansha get the best armour stuff, followed by gallente and derivativesserpentis, followed by minmatar and derivativesangels. look around other items - domination webs kick the crap out of everybody else's, dread guristas missiles are the best damage in the game, and so on. no need for a fix here. that said, you're right, the alt does have a cool name."
"i just found it weird that items that have the same lp/isk cost have such varying stats. while i like the fact that they are slightly different, shouldn't their value also be different as a purchase cost?"
"this. i dont mind different factions having different items. but having them at same price? gallente lp store lp/isk ratio is nothing to write home about. unlike caldari navy lps as everyone needs those cnrs , or with the fullest expansion of nano craze, demand for republic fleet or thukker modified speed mods has risen greatly."
"now that proposal i rather like. keep them different, but make them different on the cost side too. for that matter, maybe make khanid gear tag-heavy, ammatar cash-heavy, and amarr lp-heavy, say - same stats, same expected costs, but different cost breakdowns."
"sorry for the clutter.suggestion1 remove the microwarpdrive module from the game2 replace it with an 'engine power router'. this module, when mounted, reduces the total amount of the capacitor, and increases the ship's mass marginally, however it does not consume any power unless activated. when activated, it increases the ship's base speed, stacking with afterburners, but also reduces the capacitor and shield recharge rate and increases the ship's signature. the bonuses and penalties induced by this module however, are small compared to those of the mwd. but one can still fire when using this module. and it increases engine strength to help break free of webifiers.3 make it so that nanofiber internal structures do not stack. at all. neither for benefits nor for penalties.4 do not change the power of overdrive modules.5 tone down missile speeds and explosion velocities until speed tanking with these modules becomes viable, but not overpowered. balance things out.6 do not change the mass of any minmatar ships.rp crapthe engine power router is a direct reactor-to-thruster power link and regulator, combined with a reinforcing of certain systems inside a ship's engine to allow for greater levels of raw thrust. originally designed by the gallente for use on their high-speed assault cruisers, it significantly boosts a ship's raw engine power and speed at the cost of other systems. the systems that make up its construction take a up space from a ship's capacitor and add to its mass, and with power going directly to the engines this module takes a lot of energy to run. the boosted emission of a ship's engines also seems to increase its signature. fortunately, for obvious reasons, the module can be shut down once a ship has reached optimal range. it was quickly adopted by the minmatar for use on their fast ships, with modifications to housing and engine technology, then by the amarr because of their considerable expertise with energy systems and typically large power buffer, and last by the caldari who realized the dire need to increase their heavy ships' speed accordingly, and has since seen more and more use among speedier combat ships among the spacelanes.skill to mount: 'engine boost rigging', under engineering. required skills: engineering v, energy grid upgrades iv. 'high speed maneuvering' changes to affect this module.the thorax and the incursus, and their assault/heavy assault ship derivatives should have purposefully built housings for these modules from the start, thereby significantly reducing the penalties for using one of these based on skill level. the vagabond and the claw should be the only minmatar vessels to have similar bonuses.seeing as certain people do not want the mwd to become a rapid-transport sort of tool, wanting to keep their precious speed tanks without having to pulse things too much, and the thread above is getting as many negative responses as positive, i thought that it might be good to suggest more alternatives. i can't say that the people who complain about making the mwd travel-only seem like anything but those specifically targeted by the speed nerf from the start and for a reason, but they are players nevertheless. and taking away speed tanks and making the mwd a mandatory module for breaking webs anyway is not quite a smart move, imo..."
"so what you're saying is that you want to balance mwds by making them fill more slots on ship builds. that seems like a terrible solution."
"what? not really. i just think that the mwd is silly, because of its extreme bonuses and penalties. not to mention game mechanic- and rp-wise... you don't have to make this thing stack with abs, but you'd have to make it a bit more effective in that case. combine it with the changes to other modules, with not bringing down some ships and modules, and some other careful changes though...come on. it's a reasonable penalty, and better than not being able to fire/speed tank at all. also, it would give some people reasons to mount afterburners, and others not."
"the forum is preferred for a lot of people i have meet, because they can operate them from work when not in the client. i actually use the new adds, and have had some success from the experience. i have also used the recruit channel, and personal contacts. i just get this irritation every time i think about the recruit forums because even news papers and green sheet has managed to divide their want ads into organized categories. it is a really easy fix: basically the existing becomes an archive, and open a few more forum sub threads along more specific search categories."
"support"
"devs read meh"
"i will be reveiling a plan for bounty hunters in the near future. incidentally, its not too different from yours :"
"since war decs are being looked at anyhow, isn't it time to ad a game mechanic to right ant wrongs or injustices done to you by members of non-wardecable corporations?how about an individual wardec ? a one on one wardec that cannot be renewed nor made mutual - it shouldn't get any discount due to size - barring that purchasble kill rights would be an interesting idea as well as open a player driven and controlled market."
"i don't think letters of marque apply in this case you've mentioned. i'm given to understand that they're more of less what faction warfare is all about.anyway, the mechanics you suggest don't offer anything different over wardeccing an entire corp.if you hate the guy so much, just suicide gank him or something."
"edit: sorry, double post"
"buy some destroyers and have a field day but really, people can play the game however they want... if it is not people, and macros, then it is a problem. otherwise? not really."
"you think 100 mackinaws named xfadsgde in npc corps that just slowboat back to their cans when i bump them 60km off their cans over and over are anything but macros? and besides, with ccp's shiny new \"more helpful concord\" i doubt doing anything about it will be possible with thrashers or any other ships.edit: worth mentioning that they're there 23/7. take a look sometime for yourself."
"lol you make a good point... in that case, macros it is probably. take a ship scanner out there, see what they have fitted, and then go fit a suicide ship. like i said, a destroyer is cheap and gets the job done well then agian, its 0.7, so you only can do a few before your set status gets too low"
"you're right. that's what i'm doing right now, but like i said, if it's easy, why not.well, forget about it. it's not that my life depends on it. it was just an idea that crossed my mind.cheers"
"i'd love it if the built-in jukebox was improved, on general principles, but i wouldn't use it. that's what i have winamp for."
"i agree ccp please stop messing with this game and ignore the whiners please!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! this game is super awesome and open ended please don't turn this into wow in space. i am not paying $14.95 a month to play wow in space. i play eve because its original and its not freakin wow and all those other games. leave the learning skills just because some noob *****es that he can't catch up to everyone ignore him and that person should not play eve. eve is time consuming yes but thats what makes it so much fun to play"
"<3"
"so do you just intent to keep stacking the agenda with every 0.0/sov suggestion that gets posted?it seems like every 0.0 or sov idea that comes up in the assembly hall, you will support inside of the first ten posts and agree to bring before the csm. you do this before any significant discussion takes place on the issue that is, before any well-thought-out objections can be made. you do it before you're able to see if the idea gets any popular traction. i know that the idea has to be discussed in the assembly hall for a minimum period of time before the csm can vote on it, but you essentially bring the idea to the csm for a discussion and vote regardless of how the suggestion thread pans out.for example, the two 0.0/sov ideas on the agenda right now: the first one has all of 20 replies. the second one has 11, but you're right there in the second post supporting and you've got it on the agenda. it's absurd. if an idea is actually good, don't you think that it probably will get more than 6 supports?the point of the csm is to represent the player base. right now you've got two items on the agenda that together have the support of a whopping 20 people from the player base. and the csm is going to spend time discussion those ideas. can you not at least wait until another idea with some popular support shows up? barring that, maybe you could wait until a number of other csm reps support an idea hint: i mean darius before you bring an idea to the csm, so that maybe it will have a chance of passing? rather than voting on ideas that capture genuine player concerns, you've decided to vote on suggestions that fit your own preconceived agenda. i mean my god seven out of ten issues on the agenda right now are yours, and for the most part they're all issues with a mere two pages of player discussion behind them."
"if the csm was sitting on their thumbs and not addressing any issues posted in the assembly hall unless they have 500 supports, we'd be pretty ****ed at them for their laziness. i think it makes sense to present a variety of ideas to ccp, otherwise the process stagnates.in short, are you really blaming the csm for being hard-working?"
"jade to use up 10 of the 15 slots?how about you move all that stupid bull**** to the end of the line."
"so you define hard-working as:1 see thread with \"0.0\" or \"sov\" in the title.2 open thread.3 hit reply.4 type \"please fill this out with a more detailed proposal.\"5 check support.6 hit submit.7 edit topic into csm agenda.well, it is a whole seven steps, and i didn't even include all the steps needed to edit the agenda. so i guess you might have a point.seriously though, \"hard-working\" in this context would involve an active effort to build a consensus around an idea by soliciting buy-in from the relevant base of players. and not just 50 random peons i'm looking at you ankhsh2lfoslv.asdlf, people who matter in the game. guess what, bob don't waste much time on this csm crap, and most of them don't read the assembly hall or eve-o in general. many russians or tcf might not even be able to read english. a hard-working csm member would be making an effort to get in touch with the important individuals who actually live in 0.0 and get some feedback from them before tossing the idea off to the rest of the do-nothing know-nothing congress for a vote. just because a group of people can't stand these forums doesn't mean that their opinion is irrelvant. it's highly relevant.e: here is one step-by-step for success:1 recognize that 0.0 is the land of elitist *******s who don't necessarily bother or have the ability to read eve-o. remember that ccp doesn't really get involved in big 0.0 powerblocks after the t20 scandal and that certain players really do know more than the devs do about some aspects of their game. get ready to play along with people's egos to accomplish something.2 get a shortlist of people who would be useful to ask about 0.0 and sov warfare. hint: one of them sits on the council already! the others are major players in the large 0.0 powerblocks. they are people who have played the 0.0 game for a long time and have big-picture views, as well as a large personal investments in the game, and a lot of subordinates to take care of.3 present to them whatever idea you have.4 incorporate their feedback to improve the idea. or if they collectively suggest that the idea is trash, then ****can it.5 eventually bring to the csm a plan that has a large chance of being successful if implemented because the people who understand the complicated inter-woven big-picture issues have at least not struck it down outright."
"if anyone on the csm attempts to do what you describe, i'd be very happy. right now though i'm seeing a lot of work being done by jade to keep getting topics in front of the csm. if some people don't wish to be involved in this, that is their call. but arranging and attending every meeting and scouring the assembly hall forum to find topics to put on the agenda is indeed a lot of work, and if jade weren't doing it the csm would hardly be addressing anything - i think he deserves more credit than you're giving him."
"he's certainly putting more effort into the csm than i would put into a video game without compensation. but he knew what he was getting into when he signed up, and his effort is nevertheless insufficient for this task. if something is worth doing, then it's worth doing right."
"it's being done right. we would be very lucky to have more folks putting as much good work in as jade is, given the thanklessness of the task.as for the idea of appointing a development group of 0.0 'important individuals' - i don't see how handing the keys over to one particular subgroup of players will do anything for balance other than ensure that only development changes beneficial to that subgroup are passed."
"good point. for that matter, i wonder why ccp didn't ask a bunch of wow players, or even non-eve-playing citizens of iceland, to form the csm? those people would be free of any bias regarding changes to the game. and, if ccp implements changes requested by those who don't play eve, maybe they would start to play it! what a bonus!oh, of course. it's because you want the people who understand the game and are invested in it to guide the changes. it's because when you change a game, you don't change it in favor of the people who do not play that game. you change it in favor of the people who do play that game so as to increase their enjoyment of it and maintain them as loyal subscribers. and if they like your improvements, they may invite their non-playing buddies to join in on the fun.living in 0.0 is a game. it is a very different game from the one played in highsec or lowsec. if the 0.0 game is changed, it should be changed by the people who actually play it and invest in it for their increased enjoyment. 0.0 should not be changed for the benefit and enjoyment of those who have chosen not to play the 0.0 game.\"let's change 0.0 and the sov system\" is a task that is fundamentally different in scope and in impact than \"let's change the powergrid on the nighthawk\". fitting a ship does not really constitute a game. the sovereignty system and the mechanics of 0.0 do constitute a game in the same way that the faction warfare system constitutes a game i guess you would say a \"mini-game\", a sub-game within eve. the people who choose to play the sov game should guide its changes in the same way that the people who play eve online should guide changes that apply generally to all of eve online.edit:look, as of posting this my utterly fake parody of an idea about turning highsec into a wow pve server has got more support than either of the ideas that jade has put on the agenda for 0.0. that is the level of absurdity that we're at now."
"the csm is a 'particular subgroup of players'.the star fraction has sovereignty in zero solar systems."
"in the end, any aspect of the game should be balanced by developers with an eye towards how all subsystems within the game interact. to that point, it's just a really terrible idea to put veto power over the entire playerbase in the hands of players appointed solely because they have a narrow focus in their gameplay on 0.0 sov warfare.one might as well argue that a council of only nano-ship pilots should be selected to address the nano-nerf. it takes all sides to sort something as big as this out."
"ccp ask csm to help them come up with proposals to reform sovereignty warfare in 0.0enough said really."
"that makes the star fraction one of the last group of individuals qualified to comment on and suggest changes to 0.0 sovereignty.jade, stick to empire high sec issues."
"ya, you keep waving that flag as if my point is that the csm should give up on 0.0 and sov warfare.but what i'm actually saying is that the csm should try and address sov warfare in an effective way. not by rubber-stamping ideas supported by some miniscule number of people for ccp to read. by actually putting in the time and the work to build a significant consensus around an idea.if all the ccp devs are asking for is a bunch of ideas cast up by joe messageboardposter, then they can get that just by reading the assembly hall. they don't need you to vote for them to read it.what ccp wants the csm to do is the freaking legwork -- go out into the field, talk to people, and figure out what the solution really should be. be solution builders, and not just a dumb pipeline or filter through which solutions might flow.stop lazily expecting the solutions to very hard, complicated problems to be dropped on your doorstep by enterprising constituents. go out and find the solutions that will work yourselves."
"negative. and on 0.0 issues, if you are interested in a balanced approach to 0.0 balancing you don't ask a group composed entirely of people too close to the issue. you guys are too invested in current 0.0 defensive advantages to discuss these things objectivity. sure you have a right to an opinion, but you have absolutely no right to a veto. asking people holding 0.0 space from the current stacked deck of broken sov mechanics about the future 0.0 warfare is like asking a focus group of turkeys if they are in favor of thanksgiving - nobody should be surprised at the answers that interest group gives."
"the thing you keep forgetting though is that we already have the opinions of the current status quo and those = lets do nothing. ccp also care about the opinions of the people who would like change and would like to make 0.0 warfare more interesting, more dynamic and generally more of a game. those minutes are very revealing. the impression i get from reading you posts is that feel that people interested in raiding and opposing settlements in 0.0 have no right to opinion in the direction the game should develop and i strongly disagree with you. eve is a game for all the players and i don't believe the current space holders in 0.0 have the right to veto any change that might make their job of holding territory more challenging.you yourself concluded in kelsin's thread that you didn't foresee any solutions that could be implemented within the lifespan of eve online. you'll forgive me for dismissing that level of cynicism and remaining hopeful that those people who do see a future for non blob warfare laggy logjams in 0.0 might eventually win this argument and drive positive change.simple defeatism. i don't buy it."
"yes you do, because that's the group that has experience of the issue, and what they feel is 'wrong' with it. you don't ask an accountant to fix your car.a semi-valid point. yes, objectivity may well be difficult to achieve, but i'd rather have a car mechanic tell me what's wrong with my car than an accountant. yes, the mechanic may not be perfectly objective, because he'd like to get some money out of you. but if the final result is that the car works, then the mechanic has succeeded. and who said anything about 'veto'? as a 0.0 player, i'd rather see proposals from those in or involved with 0.0.strawman and fallacious analogy. those who have taken sovereignty, defended sovereignty, assaulted sovereignty, clashed over sovereignty and lost sovereignty are the perfect group to ask about sovereignty."
"oh really? you're certain that the general opinion of, say ra or stain empire or solar fleet is that the status quo is good? what are you basing that opinion on? did nync post that somewhere on eve-o? did you ask him? and what about bob? do you have a lot of contacts there who are feeding you information about what they generally think?jade, you don't know **** about what people in 0.0 think and you haven't tried to find out. you know what you think, and you know what you think people who play in 0.0 think. that's it.those people who are close to the issue have an important role to play. maybe you don't let them decide every facet of your idea, but if it doesn't have any input or feedback from them and ignores their concerns, then your idea is useless. and the fact is that people with the best insights to give aren't just going to come to you. for one thing, many of them aren't going to post feedback here because they don't understand english. or imagine a 0.0 powerhouse russian alliance who might have their bread-and-butter game changed out from under them according to suggestions approved by a council that they couldn't provide feed back to because they don't even know it exists. it's absurd.you need to put forth the effort to solicit the opinions that, while they won't show up on an eve-o forum, are still extremely relevant to the issue. you cannot dismiss those opinions by waving your hands and muttering about bias."
"ah well, we'll agree to disagree. life goes on."
"your analogy would be perfect if you were comparing the turkeys involved in thanksgiving to the control towers involved in 0.0 sovereignty warfare.i don't see you requesting the opinions of the control towers, but then control towers don't have opinions, hence why your analogy is completely fallacious."
"imagine you're in iceland, discussing your ideas for 0.0 and sov with the devs. the devs hear you out, and then look at darius and bane and ask \"so, what did you guys think of the idea? you spend all your time doing this stuff\". then they say \"we don't think this idea is the way to go. certainly something needs to be changed, but i think this will anger a lot of veteran players\". then the devs look at you ask, \"so did anyone who plays in 0.0 already get on board with this idea? what did they think?\" and you say \"well not many of them contributed to the discussion about the idea. i guess they don't care strongly about it.\" i don't think the devs are going to buy that.it's in your best interest in doing what i suggest. i'm not sure why you would resist it unless you're simply too lazy to do it. even being able to tell the devs something like \"i talked to some of the head guys in bob and in some russian alliances and all they want is the status quo. i think they'll be angry no matter what you do\" sounds better than \"they didn't offer any opinions and i didn't go out of my way to ask.\"frankly, by not even going to the trouble of asking around, you are the one who is being defeatist. you're assuming the there's no way to build a real consensus on this issue because you experienced some early frustration.of course you could also just refuse to perform your due diligence with this because some guy in goonswarm made a cynical post on a message board. that makes a lot of sense."
"you really dont get it do you? all you have ever done is try to get them to change 0.0 so your stupid worthless alliance can participate in it. well you can't so stop trying to change the game for your own agenda. 0.0 is supposed to be where all the big players of the game emerge and duke it out if you aren't cutting it in the current system what makes you think that you will cut it with another system? alliance level warfare isn't something someone like you or anyone else with no experience to take a look at and make decisions based off of crap like that.take for example ank and all her stupid crap she's putting forward."
"empire wars need to stay, open warfare is why i started playing eve in the first place and also too many damn carebears running round and whining all the time on the forums o boohoo i got suicide ganked while afk hauling ur a dumbass if u do that... jeez leave the ****ing game alone for ****s sake all this nerfing this n nerfing that is catoring to the whiners and carebears. i like the nano nerf tho cuz nano gangs r annoying to no ends and all they do is run away neway when they get engaged. this game was awesome when i first start over a yr and a half ago now am not so sure cuz this in turning into wow in space"
"holy **** jade is stupid."
"you think i should have bought the \"spy intel then?\""
"iirc we were roleplaying you but talking in richard nixon voice. nothing said that hasn't been said anywhere else albeit with no kid gloves v0v."
"even goon spies are turdbags, and can't stop from making waves..."
"yikes"
"2 words . . .oh snap!"
"there is no point in mining in low sec as you can make as much profit in high sec. nevermind the risk in low sec is greater than 0.0 for mining. low sec needs boosted badly."
"omnidirectional tracking link ii"
"me: so, how do you manage to be able to read through all these threads?csm member: well, we're just lucky that ccp pays us a living stipend, because if we actually had to spend eight hours a day at work, then we wouldn't have the time to read through all the threads. it's a full-time job, really . . . especially considering the fact that we still want to be able to play the game.me: so, you don't think that the ratio of 9:250,000 is impractical or otherwise logistically impossible?csm member: not at all! i mean, if we couldn't devote eight hours of every day to reading threads, picking out the ones that are actually insightful, and discussing them amongst ourselves, then this wouldn't be a democratic process at all!me: so, in other words, you are confident that you are able to best serve the eve population because you have more than enough time to be a functional member of the csm.csm member: of course! i can assure you that we are more than able to give everyone's threads and concerns enough attention. luckily, all of the threads are posted by genuinely concerned players who have thought carefully about whether or not their topic is appropriate and reasonable. furthermore, the threads are all well-written, concise, and come from non-selfish and fairness-based perspectives.me: well . . . in that case . . . this must be a rewarding and productive position, indeed.csm members: yes sir! the trip to iceland is just the icing on the cake!me: i'm convinced!"
"in all seriousness . . .give the csm a freaking break already."
"what happend..? it got almost all the way to the finish line but seems to have gotten swept under the rug..."
"[idea] new mechanic for npc-corpsa different take on npc-corps and consequences for remaining in one"
"[issue] pos fuel proposal fuel pellets and time"
"yes"
"i support this - long have we called for more reason to go to low-sec.. making 0.4 systems something other than a worthless place to probably die whilst getting poor is a start!"
"against.while i'm not against the changes per say, i'm against the sweeping nature of it. it just plain overkill for such a minor problem such as nanos.babysteps ccp, babysteps."
"lol, teh innernet."
"yes. i dont want my minmatar toon be useless."
"i want to see a nano nerf, just not this one as it's taking a sledgehammer approach."
"some kind of speed nerf is required, especially for the vaga.but what the dev is proposing is ludicrous and will effect stuff that does not need to be changed.i will have to be with the eve community on this one.against!btw.. lavista? if it was only an idea, why is the nerf running on sisi?ps.. any chance we could vote on stasis bubbles to combat these pesky minmattar"
"against"
"against!!!"
"totally against!!!"
"against!!"
"against!!!!!"
"i do not fly nano, but i can see the reasoning behind being able to nano a hac. if they can't be nanoed they generally aren't much better then there bc counterparts making paying the isk not worth it. also there is no reason to nerf speed across the board, killing one race minmatarand making another races weaponry blasters completely useless.nerf ludicrous, don't kill speed tanking as it's a viable tactic."
"/signedp.s. ccp you suck at lifethis is an individual rant that really doesn't have much to do with the nano nerf but over the past few months my experience with ccp staff has been extremely bad.thus i might quit eve for greener pastures so i can flame ccp and not really care.no you can not have my stuff i would destroy it before i would give it to you.ccp you are all gigantic ***gots now go die by head trauma from a pencil now or something you gay pedo***gots!!!!"
"give speed a chance :d"
"against !"
"against!"
"bad..spent a few days on singularity and i am disappointed. as minmatar, even my mission ships are screwed and i can no longer have a bit of fun tanking l4's in a claw.nano is not an \"i win\" button, it takes extensive skill and big isk to make it really effective. why should pilots who have invested time and isk be nerfed because some disgruntled idiots cannot adapt?ccp, don't take away the reason to specialise."
"oh for god's sake, fix it."
"so we know the industry standard excuse was so much bs, it was just a price hike, as the csm found out in their meeting.we know the it is too expensive for ccp to have more than one type of card is nonsense since the japanese now get 50 day cards.so ccp stop being corporate speak buffoons and deliver choice to your customers through a variety of card types:30, 60, 90 and even 180 or 360 cards and bring back the old dollar prices."
"yes we get so much marketing bs from ccp about reasons for only having one type of card then they the japanese 50 day cards.are ccp too stupid to see the irony of this decions after all the nonsense they have told the csm and the players about the cards.be a good service company ccp and give us, your customers, gtc choice."
"i support this thread!-- s"
"ok"
"down with the boring nano-tactics"
"yes.if you want to fight you should commit to it not be able to just run away every time."
"i am fully supporting the nanoship rebalancing."
"support"
"jade could you say all that but in a shorter way plz i carnt read it all properly :"
"you forgot to tell the story of how you were in an empty system and couldn't tell it was empty, so you wasted 20 minutes scanning and found nothing.or the story of how a couple missioners in the same system wanted to fleet up with some one to speed things along, but can't. or perhaps the story or of the miner who suddenly started to get his ass handed to him by a handful of rat frigates and couldn't even yell \"help,\" call it a \"distress signal\" if you want fancy storytelling or how about the time you find several people who you'd like to talk to at the same time, but you have to convo them all individually instead of saying \"hey guys, let's [insert meaningless social activity that carbears do here]\"or how about just wanting to get on the damn radio and talk to anyone whose out there because you're ****ing bored and you wanna see whose out there.you seem to forget that eve is a social game. local will never go away because of this. local could be changed to not display anyone in the local sidebar unless they decided to talk in local somewhat the way other chat channels do only a lot faster, but to simply make such a powerful socializing tool just vanish is, excuse me, ****ing stupid.if giving away your presence is what you're worried about, perhaps a few line of codes can be added that remove you from local while your cloaked, but if surpises is what you want, then just go with the above idea. edited: emphasizing the important parts"
"these types of channels are called \"recent speakers\", and i'm going to promote that until something better comes along.but i agree completely, that just *poof* removing local wouldn't work. and voting for such a total removal will not prompt ccp to do it any faster than never. but... removing the intel gathering aspect the names and faces would alleviate the problem, while still leaving the chat function itself intact."
"so what you saying if someone deside to go out mine alone in syetm with 5 gates he must to find 5 ppl to cover it those gates? dont beleave they will do it for free and how much profit will ppl get after?i dont know. like i said i like idea in general but it can bring lots of concequnces with it and have poseble huge impact on 0.0 population on the long run.now we did read the story showed from one side combat situation and it is sound fun but what about if you travel from dest a to dest b ? we all do arent we? and we all have local open and trying to get fast to our destenation and dont run in the camp or atleast try to avoid. in this scenarion you will have 2 options:a run like headless chiken and hope you dont get in any camp on your wayb you have to scan every system you enter and will cost you alot of time to finish your jurney.my 2 cents.cyb"
"there is perfectly nothing wrong with \"pay to grief\". welcome to eve. you have options to get out of wardecs, like disbanding corps and the like.furthermore, the whole victory conditions thing - can we expect to be teleported to a instance so we can do a honourable 5v5 and then whoever kills most ships get victory points, or what? defenders having to agree with being assaulted?edit: i was being sarcastic, not providing ideas"
"ccp, eve is a sandbox game, stop it with \"victory conditions\"when i decide to war dec a corp because i dislike their ceo, i set my own victory conditions, i.e force his corp to disband, deal x amount of financial damage, prevent x/y/z from happening.\"victory conditions\" predetermined ones.. no, thats what guild wars has, and some people play guild wars, eve has player made goals.. remember that sanbox you advertised to me?dont detract from the game because the vocal minority cant keep their mouth shut on the forums and in local. maybe 1% of the war declarations are \"random\" i do not declare war on a \"random target\" and i believe nobody else does either, a lot of time and effort goes into some war efforts, even against \"defenceless corps\" a lot of research and scouting must be done, and targets only become targets because something about them conflicts with something about the agressor."
"also.. as another forum dweller put simply, and accuratelysince when is a real war dictated by what the defenders want?"
"personally, i like the idea of of multiple types of wardecs, some with victory conditions, and some without. the mercenary idea is also pretty solid.if the current \"griefer\" wardec option was to still be available, then perhaps another kind of victory condition would work. as a quick idea, perhaps the insurance payouts on attacker ships, where a defender is on the kill mail, would be split in some way. some/none to the attacker who died, and some/all would go to the defender corp.so in effect, you could choose to \"pirate\" in high sec, with the stipulation that you no longer get full insurance when you die fighting the folks you wardecced or the mercs hired by them to fight back. for the defenders and hired mercs, this would be like a bounty system. you get paid for each attacker you kill.whether it should be the entire insurance payment, or just part, would have to be balanced. maybe it would depend on the sec rating of the system where it happened, sec status of the attacker killed, or something else. also, the payment is only for kills in high sec, and not for any kills in low/null sec."
"war decs are made by those with their own goals and agenda. just because victory conditions aren't a part of the mechanics doesn't mean they don't exist. why do you feel the need to interfere in everything?the defender can choose to fight back and attempt to make the war unprofitable for the attacker. they can also choose not to. what exactky is the problem, why do you feel the need to impose ccp conditions and goals on wars?again, why does there have to be a reason other than killing and pillaging? that's what half of eve enjoys doing, so why attempt to deter it? the other half gets enough protection as it is by hiding in npc corps.grouping together for safety works or doesn't work depending on how well the group is organized. why on earth should the mere existence of a group give safety? ccp understands very little and it concerns me that csms are jumping on the ccp bandwagon."
"i agree with everything you said except this. it's not that the existence of a group gives safety. the problem is that too often, huge pvp corp finds smaller corp and wardecs them with no real disincentive. it basically means \"join a huge corp or don't join one at all\", which is stupid.scalable payments based on the relative sizes of the parties in the war would be fine. enough to discourage random wardecs on tiny corps, not enough to stop people from doing it if they actively dislike said corp."
"the point being made is that small corps are softer targets than larger ones and are just as easy to wardec and attack. instead of small corps being warred by corps their own size, they are being sucessfully warred by much larger entities than themselves. as has already been said, this is a downward pressure on small corps and pushes people to join bigger ones that are less likely to be wardecced. a small rebalancing of the fee system based on corp size should do the trick. you'll still be able to declare war on a small corp but it'll cost you a lot more than fighting one your own size.i'm afraid that my suggestions may be lost at the bottom of page 3 but chances are ccp won't even read them anyway, the thread's a month old. in my considered opinion, ccp need to use a very light touch with this issue rather than completely redefining the purpose and uses of wardecs. wardecs are a social tool and screwing with its current use will **** a lot of people off and detract from eve's political and social style as a sandbox game. there's nothing wrong with social darwinism or pay-to-pvp and non-consentual wardecs are not griefing by ccp's official knowledgebase definition of the term. there's no need to completely redesign the entire system or force people to play a different way than they already do. as per my suggestions on page 3, some additional optional tools for victory conditions and a rebalancing of war fees is all that's needed."
"yes. anything coupled with a nerf to high-sec is better than a simple buff to 0.0 rewards."
"signed. risk/reward in high-sec is utterly broken by l4 missions."
"not as easy as people think, depending on your computer and connection quality. if you are laggy, or the session change takes too long, or it takes too long to register your action on the server, the fight can be over pretty quickly.last night i was in a situation where i was able to successfully get one click in which was a warp too before both my ship and my pod blew. no modules, no aligning, just poof then poof. so spamming doesn't always work.i know there are people who have it down pat, i just don't accept that it works for everyone or is even viable on poor connections."
"this is a buff to 0.0 rewards... bringing the masses to progressively lower sec for you to gank.don't like it .. mainly because it will make it harder to earn isk while simultainiously raising the prices on virtually everything except maybe veld..."
"that's funny. one of the reasons i like the proposal is this same reason."
"support rebalacing risk/reward of 0.0 vs lowsec vs highsec. making agents/agent quality/roid contents dynamic or at least pushing better resources to lower security."
"signed also. it's an essential for good book keeping to know when you emailed someone and what you said exactly, especially when they whine they've either not got it, or accidentally deleted it and you need to send again. having to do things with hotmail or saving messages to text files first is just lame."
"/signed"
"yes!"
"love the idea and a simple solution to the gun cycle problem would be that turning on your guns automatically turns off your mwd and vice versa. also i'd like to see tracking on neuts, but that's for another time i think."
"i like./signed."
"i like this idea. simple, elegant, makes a wonderful distinction in role and function between afterburners and mwds. i really hope ccp will give this a serious look."
"/signedat least this way their wont be too many unknown side-effects or drastic changes in our playing environment while tackling the problem"
"ok, so they remove local, and then the miner can't see you jump in. said miner that you jump in on is aligned to gate/tower/whatever, sees you arrive, you lock in seconds, scram, whatever, before he can warp, and blow him up. he won't even have chance to initiate warp if you're cloaked, and de-cloak to lock and fire. how is that fair?.how it is now is how it should stay, i reiterate my point, it should be harder to kill a miner, than for the miner to survive. it should be harder to earn a dishonest living, than an honest living. unless, of course, they want to make eve more like the \"wild west\" than it already is.and you want to take on miners, 0.0 or whatever, with a titan??? there is no way i can support make it easier, you already have more advantages that the hulk pilot, with a ship like that.ab"
"when looking at potential changes in game mechanics, i always ask 'how would this be in real life?in real life, when a soldier or group of soldiers enters an area, they know they're there, but not who else is there, until they actually encounter them somehow seeing them, hearing them, etc. theoretically, in some futuristic universe that's been colonized, the technology may exist where a ship automatically 'actively' scans the local region upon entry, discovering other objects and ships. do we see this in star wars, star trek, robert heinlein's books, etc, in any of the space-based entertainment models? no, just very rarely, and usually only in circumstances where other objects/ships in local space are 'aggressive', or active, or anything but running passive scanners.so, to follow this logically and as it would/could apply to real life or the accepted 'norms' of science fiction, i support this, but believe it merits further discussion. possibly objects show up that are broadcasting their presence in combat, for example, or who have just jumped in gravity & mass changes in local space, for larger ships, of course, or are broadcasting in local channel, for example, but these all may follow some kind of radar decay time before they fall off the list. there are a lot of possibilities to explore here.on the other hand, i can see the logic behind keeping it: this is after all an mmo and on purpose of all mmos is to bring people together. removing the list in local would add a certain layer of emptiness and loneliness that can possibly be filled by being active in other channels, that while i feel would be more realistic to the vastness of space, may drive some players of the game."
"you're right, how is it fair? it's not, but neither is life. you think if i, while driving down the road, suddenly swerve onto the sidewalk, am giving any pedestrians walking there any advance notice? they take their chances jsut like me. any incoming player may or may not know that some miner is there, he's taking a chance by jumping in and taking a look around. not everybody has cloaks. no, this idea only adds to the interest and risk of teh game, and for me that is the #1 draw of this game.so what if the miners and industrialists can't see you coming? so much the better for hunting macro-miners, should that brand of crap decide to venture into lowsec/nullsec. happy hunting!"
"removing local and not implementing anything else will swing the advantage from the ratter having an insane intel advantage to the ganker being able to gank helpless ratters/miners all day long. without increased rewards ratting and mining in 0.0 would probably disappear. do not tell me a roaming gang will not know if someone is probably ratting or mining in a system. f10 tells you this info, ratters and miners usually do not move between systems so a simple look at your f10 map highlight npcs destroyed in last hour, average people in system in the last 30 minutse and you find your ratters and miners. then it just takes a covops with a few probes to find a miner. personally it would take less than a minute 20 to get a 0km warpin on someone in a system 80 au wide, smallest systems i can do it in under 30 seconds the f10 map however will not tell you if a ganker is coming. so that begs the question, with the 'autoscanner' pick up probes? what about probes that can probe your ship outside scan range? otherwise people once again will have to mash the directional scanner over and over to make sure they dont lose out. using the above probe speeds you would have to dscan for probes every 10 seconds in order to maintain some security, or put a scout in the next system, in every connecting system which will substantially lower the isk you can make, unless you abuse free trial alts."
"well not signed.alternative:the only thing even close that i would support is making a special skill and cloaking device for covert ops only that allows a ship/players removal from local with sufficient disadvanages, the most important being that the removal from local could not be passive. this way it would give the players in local a chance to notice the cloakee on his entry before he goes dark. also, while sub-local active, no group player should be allowed to warp to him.. until he is added back to local."
"you crazy or something? you think they don't have it hard enough?also, bump."
"the risk/reward imbalance in high-sec definitely needs a good look."
"again, 175 players doing anything generating money will make a lot of money. but if all you want is to have level 4 agents in 0.0, you can have how much of those that you want. start a thread asking for them and i will give my support."
"but those 175 players should be able to make a decision based on risk reward: make a little isk in near-perfect safety, more isk with some risk, much more isk with even higher risk.the problem is that the \"carrying capacity\" of player 0.0 is much less than empire. 1 agent can support perhaps 750 players assuming they want to mission 6hrs/day making as much as 120-150m/day each. i certainly would like to see more regions of npc sov 0.0 added, but that's a seperate issue. what i'm concerned about is the value of player sov 0.0 vs hi-sec. with the possible exception of a very few very good areas, it's far out of kilter. the huge sums of isk that can be risklessly generated in empire are distorting them game. witness the desperate remarks of those who are addicted to the sugar-teat."
"take a 1.000 mans alliance - look the total isk generated by all the activity and remove all the isk lost to keep the activities running o.o sov included.take 1.000 level 4 mission runners, total all the isk generated by all the activities related to mission running, included recycling the loot, selling it, ecc. and remove the costs. who has more isk worth at the end? my bet is for the alliance.yes, they need more space to do that, but you really want 100 players in each 0.0 system?you want a equal spread of eve population in all systems, with 5 players for system?to me it seem it will completely remove the meaning of 0.0 as \"the wilderness\"."
"in that case would you support a very large expansion of 0.0 both player and to a lesser extent npc to increase it's \"carrying capacity\" without losing that wilderness feeling? if so, i would be right beside you.eg: 12 player sov and 4 npc sov regions."
"ok for me, even more if they are linked to the main regions maybe adding some more low sec instead of adding them at the end of a chain of 0.0 regions."
"try to calculate how many systems you need to control to support 175 ratters that should make at least as much isk/hr as lvl 4 missions. then try to figure out how much time you would need to spend to defend it, and look at the profitability of 0.0."
"i like all of these ideas. they give a strong reason to progress to low sec/0.0 just like how ratting/mining does although mining not so much i would change the 1 mission per day to 7 missions per week so people don't feel they have to log on every single day to run a mission and also the casual player who runs missions on the weekend can do it all he wants.venkul mul: you have to be dense in the head if you think 1000 0.0 alliance can out cash a 1000 mission runners in high sec. one hostile nano gang interrupting your territyory and what is that 4-5 hours of your isk making gone, let alone that most systems can only handle 1-4 ratters and the rocks pop very quickly. also add to the fact that high sec has stations in every system and all have refining/factory etc while in low sec you need to fuel tens of poss and jbs and stuff that take time from making isk. you mistakenly think that each 0.0 region has dysprosium moons in every system and no one ever comes to raid in a nano gang to gank people. a lot of 0.0 regions are quite poor, which is a complete 180 difference from high sec.i have done level 4-5 missions for every faction, i have ratted in -1.0 tru sec and i have run pos reaction chains, i choose to mission in high sec because it gives me the most for the least amount of effort, by far.i am also pretty disgusted by that 'legit' troll in which i had to read maybe 15 posts that were all edited out. if you don't have the balls to admit you are wrong or agree to disagree then stfu."
"i'd particularly like to see the +4 npc 0.0 regions with lots of lo-sec entrances 8-10 each, to provide some especially accessible 0.0 for newer players. the player sov regions can be much as we have now, as long as they're not worthless trash like geminate."
"i completely support all these ideas. it needs to be looked at for sure, but if ccp wont change anything, it will just show how eve is carebearised today..."
"unless someone else places a buy order for 19%either way, trade still isn't an infinate resource that you can plug over and over and always come out with huge payouts. even if you find a good trade nitch it will only profit at a certain rates. you can't do the npc run over and over and get the same payout each time, and trade with pc goods is limited by players filling the order so it has breaks on it too."
"i was recently gone for a month of vacation. i got back, hopped in my dominix, and after checking to be sure that i didn't have any insurance expiration notification for my ship, flew it through a gate and promptly got blown up. a request for reimbursement was denied. apparently i am supposed to be clairvoyant, and know that the ship's insurance has expired without receiving a notification to that effect. the actual response was something along the lines of, \"well, that's the way the game mechanics work, so tough luck.\" the only way to get a notification that your insurance has expired, it seems, is by going to a station and opening the insurance tab. these insurance executives should be shot. who runs a business that doesn't give you notification of expired insurance until you're putting insurance on your replacement ship?! isn't that a little too late?!please, we need some regulation of these companies. it is almost as if they're trying to avoid paying us for our losses. if that's the case, they shouldn't be in the insurance business! perhaps when you hop into an uninsured ship and try to launch a little reminder could pop up in your hud heads up display, for you insurance agents saying, 'hey, are you sure you want to blow up? after all, you're not insured...' or maybe the automated notification system could key off of a timer that is set for each ship when insurance is purchased..."
"i fully agree with this post. signed!!"
"agreed"
"#1 this is ccp greyscales idea he posted in the features and ideas discussion forum here. i am not claiming any credit for the idea, i am merely placing it in the assembly hall for something the csm could further discuss with ccp.to sum the idea up it would allow the creation of fuel pellets from the 6 base fuels not liquid ozone and heavy water to streamline the pos fueling process.#2i also believe it would be a good change to adjust the fuel bay sizes on towers to allow a maximum fuel storage to last 4 weeks. keeping the 25% sovereignty bonus would increase that time to 5 weeks helping the numbers remain manageable.overall this would be a slight increase in fuel times while creating the ability to make a simpler schedule.please vote on the core of the idea and not the numbers so much because they can be changed freely by ccp."
"fuel pellets make perfect sense. i'm actually kind of amazed ccp hasn't brought them in already. as long as there's a transition period1-2 months?, to let people only have to fill towers with pellets on their next refuel afterwards, and it doesn't bugger up me and factory slots for the next million years, this is just good sense. as for the fuel bay size increase, it seems sensible. we want this game to be relatively painless for those doing the scut work, and refueling less often is a good way of doing that. given that strontium is now separate, there shouldn't be any problems around that."
"i disagree. it discourages players from grouping with people that would reduce their bonuses. for example, 3 amaar pilots show up and one caldari. guess whose not going to get a fleet invite...another dumb idea. you want bonuses, get a command ship. that's what they are made for..."
"what about people who fly amarr? they're a minority and as such any amarr skilled player would be pretty much forced to train over to gallente to be of any use to their corp. you would be pushing their numbers down and greatly increasing the most popular races as the most common now becomes the best to fly.people should not be forced into flying a certain race to be able to get in a gang with their corp. imagine if your corp were caldari aligned, so everyone was training down that road as its the only logical thing for a member to do. then something happens, you leave that corp and end up joining a friends corp who happens to be gallente.considering the huge difference in the skillsets between those races you're pretty forcing players to either ignore their current skillset and train to align with the corp or find another corp that happens to fit theirs better.most corps are not going to be able to field multiple gangs every night catering for the different races of their members, these changes would put up a large barrier to getting into pvp for a significant proportion of players.to put it really simply* is trained as b*'s corp is a mix of c & d* doesn't want to train c or d* really likes his corp and doesn't want find a corp of b= you're screwed?"
"to clarify, jade - how do you intend on presenting this idea? it should be fine-tuned to maximize it's chances of passing and be somewhat specific, rather than the more vague \"racial fleets should be better than mixed... which surely will not get passed\"current options:single-race fleets get bonuses.solid arguments against this in the threadcommand ships are better at certain racial warfare links currently implemented but not working, too much skill requirement to usenavy doctrine mindlinks that increase gang bonuses to ships of that race my current favoritecurrent mindlinks give a 50% bonus to gang-assist modules.minmatar navy doctrine examplerepublic fleet mindlink75% increase to skirmish warfare link and 50% increase to siege warfare link bonuses transmitted to minmatar ships"
"i support this idea. the reason i support it has more to do with the command ships themselves than the actual idea itself however. currently, of all the command ship bonuses that are available, very few have actual practical use or racial congruence. example: the eos gives bonuses to information warfare which directly affects ecm better than anything else in the game ecm is caldari. from a racial standpoint this is extremely silly. furthermore, some of the links have very limited/focused uses that fall short in a real fleet situation like the repair amount bonus on the armor links: ehp is far more important.besides, non-mixed racial bonuses would fit nicely into the factional warfare scheme they currently have running. if you get hired by the caldari militia, you wouldnt think they would be happy you are using gallente ships, right? this idea needs tweaking, and really should center around command ships.incomplete rambling, but ohwell.edit: if anything, this should not affect balancing ships outside races. mixed fleets should still be viable options. and another aspect that makes this interesting is the current corp-hiring mechanics: there is a skill needed to hire characters outside of your own race. odd eh?"
"indeed. single race fleets shouldn't be the choice but they should be a choice, and a good one at that.how, though, would you stop people from just making one gang per race?"
"cancelling mod effects may go a bit far since it would make it near impossible to tackle titans. adding in 25,000 damage to the effect would do enough to kill some support and drones/fighters while still making racial tanking dictors viable and requiring 3 titans to do the former job of 1. 3 titans is 3 x the risk/investment and timing to achieve total fleet wipeout. that is far far harder to do than just 1 ship."
"agree"
"this. it goes very well with the upcoming industry expansion where all modules are built from components of some kind. loot should be removed, and damaged forms of these components should be included in the salvage yield. bring this to ccp as an realistic and intuitive extension of module components and i'll support it."
"/signed"
"the main trouble with this topic as i see it is that everyone is on a different page so to speak. waldo is against farmers, henriette is mad about macros, and jack can't stand isk sellers. these are all different things which of course may become subsets of the others.unless we can first agree on clearly defined behavior we're trying to stop this will remain a goose chase.ccp have made it pretty clear that they are against isk selling. they haven't taken a stand against \"10 farmers killing 1 rock in the belt\" and why should they... that seems pretty ineffective to me anyway.people farm in the game for different reasons. not all of which lead to outside sale of isk. i don't believe it's wrong for me to sit in an ice belt all day and mine for my corps pos just because someone else doesn't have the time to do that. farming by it's very nature is repetitious and sometimes boring but it is a neccessary part of the game. that said, marcos are not nice.. they allow activity when you are away for extended periods.. there should be someone on the business end of any laser/flight stick within reason. the question is how do you stop them in a way that doesn't hamper others? this is a much harder question than the, \"what do we do about isk retailer\" question. just because i choose not to say, \"hi\" to you doesn;t make me a macro user.. just because i mining fast with others doesn't make me a macroer.. heck, if i fall asleep in a belt because it's boring i'm not a marcoer either.. lastly, i would submit that it's not a crime against the eula to use more than one account at the same time in fact, ccp even seem to encourge this with some promotions ..nor is it against the eula be a foreign speaking grinder. we have to be careful how we handle this problem or i fear the only ones that will really be punished will be the innocent."
"thanks for your support so far. i would be pleased if one of the csms would post a comment on this as well though"
"procuror needs love before covetor does. as it is, only use for those is to make skiffs."
"heh. there is that too.the procuror would make a great ninja mining ship with a few minor changes. well, that and making it worthwhile to ninja mine in the first place."
"hopefully this suggestion will be read through the 'haze of whines' as was said earlier in this thread. 1. i see a lot of good constructive ideas in here amidst the complaints and 'discussion'. thank you those who have actually contributed something of value!2. way to go ccp for following through with the csm process, and your own review of the situation! can't wait for tradable kill rights. 3. one more suggestion for review by ccp: what if concord were to assist those being attacked through shield transfer? would it not be more realistic to have only a few proportional response craft as opposed to a gargantuan concordokken blob? picture it, concord vessels shield transfer to the ship in distress so it doesn't die immediately, a web/scram of the attackers, and an actual fight between the offenders and concord. if the battle goes sour for the pirates gankers, they can leave. if more gankers join the fight, concord can warp in more reinforcements. this would depend, of course, on balance. the concord response would have to match both the dps of the agressors and/or their ship types. good points of my idea: people get their pvp pirats versus concord, more 'realistic' defense for the defending ship i say 'realistic' because the likelihood of an infinite number of uber-powerful concord vessels waiting to be deployed seems far-fetched.bad points of my idea: hard to balance properly so that gankers still have a chance to obtain the benefit for their risk i.e. pop the target ship.alternative option: once the agressors engage, anyone with a positive sec status in-system gets a free agro and bookmark on the attackers for the duration of the battle until attackers die or escape. this would increase the pvp, increase the defender's chances and decrease boring automated police who remove the fun/benefit of being a pirate.okay - discuss! interested to hear feedback from both sides of the fence :"
"interesting idea, but if i'm not mistaken concord already has something of a proportional response based upon the level of solar system sec and on the persistence of the attack.where this idea really breaks down is in forgetting about concord response time. current response times allow the suicide attacker to obliterate the attacked ship before concord arrives and kills the suicider. if the attacked ship is already dead, it isn't going to benefit from a concord offer of shield transfer.i don't quite see how this would work well. the whole point of suicide ganks is to kill the target in seconds before concord can kill the suicider. there's very little chance other players will be able to get to the suicider before concord, unless the player happens to already be on scene, and once concord does respond it's usually with a lot more force than a player can bring to bear.windjammer"
"why don't the drones just continue to attack the rats etc if you disconnect and then return to your control when you return. since we get the lag drawback of drones acting like players on the grid why don't we get the benefit of them behaving like them. this means that people wouldn't log off as an exploit, but would give the drones a fighting chance of survival."
"next they will be suggesting a \"easy/normal/hard\" option for eve!i have to disagree, if you cant afford to lose it, dont use it not supported"
"well, no, they're not attached to the ship. that's one of their downsides. travel time to, from and between targets.i agree \"the programming which controls them\" can be used as a story line justification for the op's desired behaviour. currently there really isn't an rp line of explanation for what occurs to cause emergency warp out. it would be easy to invent one, but i haven't seen it done so far. something along the lines of; an onboard power surge causing a ship wide computer crash which breaks the neural interface between ship and pod. this then engages emergency fail safes which include an automatic emergency warp out, etc. this could easily include a provision for any deployed drones.the baseball analogy breaks down too easily. you could say that missiles or projectiles are like baseballs and that would work. drones aren't a weapon you're throwing at an enemy. your baseballs missiles, projectiles either hit or miss and then stay where they are. they aren't designed to come back. drones are mobile guns which are designed to come back.windjammer"
"using that reasoning, would you be happy if you lost your ship everytime your isp failed or your computer crashed or the client crashed or the cat walked across your keyboard, etc.? how about if you just lost your guns and/or launchers evertime one of those things happened?windjammer"
"i'll add my signature to the petition. if this can be reasonably implemented, it should be implemented. i'm going to also agree that this should only really apply when pvp timers have not been engaged: i.e. when running missions, ratting, and/or mining."
"no reason not to support it in this form."
"sure, they're designed to come back... ...when you command them to do so.are you sending that command? no. if you fly away after a fight, do they automatically come back? no.why would it be any different to assume that they would just 'return' to your ship when you emergency warp out, especially given the possibility that you're performing a logoffski.don't get me wrong - from an rp aspect, the computers could suddenly engage the 'callback' command, having them warp with you, but given the chance that logoffski happens likely? possibly? more often than people losing connection, why don't we just leave it 'status quo'?i'd also argue that, if you are having consistent connectivity issues, you should damn well do something about it - it's not always ccp's fault that your computer, your isp, or your technical skillset... ...sucks."
"i'm not the one to salvage much when ratting but today i gave it a shot and was shocked to see i couldn't use tractor beams on someone elses wrecks and cans in 0.0. it's 0.0, are my tractor beams sentient and conscious objectors? fix tractor beams in 0.0"
"you know, when i think about it.. sure the post is a parody/troll/whatever and the concentual pvp thing is kinda silly given eve, i could actually see a dueling system to have some value.for comparison i am thinking of the autoduel universe. a game with a pretty harsh backstore.. some protected areas, lots of lawless regions controlled by gangs/corperations/mini-states/etc.one thing the universe had though was both a dualing circuit vehicles going in had cost limitations and cash prize going out and, more relavent to this, a 'limited corperate war' system where sure corperations would go fully toe to toe in lawless areas, but there was also a system in place that they could utitilize a regulated limited war framework enforced by the strong police areas. you set parameters number and value of units, victory conditions, and what was at stake switch control of a territory, resource transfer, etc etc.right now it's just sorta 'war or no war', at least from a game mechanic perspective."
"nope. silly goon, eve is for big kids. another attempt by goons to subvert the nature of eve, he knows it is an asinine idea, but he would push it, just to see what happens."
"we have a dueling system. you want to fight consentual pvp with a non-corpieor npc corpie in highsec, drop a can with one unit of something worthless in it - ammo, a spare trit you keep on hand for the purpose, whatever. steal it, thief drops it, you steal it back, and you both have 15 minute timers on each other. it's not perfect, but it's pretty good. failing that, fire up singularityespecially if you like the op's crazy \"no ship death\" bit."
"may as well get it over withdevs dont have the balls to admit it.. but yeahs thats whats going on"
"*nod* quite true, players have found a way to do it.and i'm not saying a contract-like system would be worth the development effort, i am just saying i could see some value to it."
"certainly that is a solution, but it isn't terribly elegant. a formal dueling system would be nice but it's definitely not a priority."
"i support this idea.most of the hate and frustration we see on the forums daily is because people are confused over what the hell this game is.clear delineations like the op proposes would stop all this subterfuge and sneky **** ccp are drip drip driping in - and eveyone would know where they standskunk"
"20 goons managed to create such a **** storm by suiciding hulks for a few months that the forums were awash with complaints and we got a nerf to suicide ganking.goons have the power to change eve.supporting this."
"ahhh ha ha ha rofl!i just read the title... *giggle*not."
"yes finally a good idea !but just one more change maybee.. can<U+FFFD>t we also have the opertunity to press the non-pvp button during a fight ??for exampel i say yes to a pvp fight but during this i see that my ship starts taking hits and i<U+FFFD>m down to structure. so i can now press the no-i-don<U+FFFD>t-want-to pvp- button and see concord kill my opponentin and save my ship !!"
"too complicated. a better idea would be to automatically stop all fights when you reach 1% stucture. you are then teleported back to the closest station with your damaged ship and can either rep the ship at the station spending a bit of isk, or you can fly in your pod to the place where you lost the fight and pick up your ship there. in that case, the ship you pick up would be whole again, with no need for repairs.i think this would bring more people into pvp."
"you know, if the ship could be stolen in it's 1% state while the looser is podding around, i would actually be in favor of this ^_^i've always thought eve could use a real salvage system where you could obtain heavily damaged but otherwise intact prize ships."
"no. it shouldn't be allowed to be stolen. concord should protect the ship and blow anyone approaching it up."
"i stopped reading right here. i don't care what the rest of your post says. i stopped playing wow a long time ago and do not wish to play wow in space."
"then you missed the obvious hilarity that a sarcastic troll post can ensue. check my post at the top of this page."
"you misunderstand. this may be a joke post but it still ****es me off when anyone even talks about this pvp flagging in high sec. why? because some moron on the csm panel will run with it because they will think it is a real good idea."
"i don't think the csm has brought forward a parody thread yet. even ank, epic carebear that she is, hasn't yet posted in favour of this thread, and i don't expect that she will. give them at least a tiny amount of credit."
"at which point during the next x.1 nerf patch ccp repurposes the snowball launchers into concord repellant."
"not supported. in real life, you could be walking down the street in the middle of the day, downtown new york and someone can still shoot you dead and probably get away with it - and you didn't opt-in! empire space is no different."
"where is the \"i do not support this idea\" radio button ?"
"i think some sort of scaling can be done for the tower after reinforced. my main point is to look at the strategic initiation and targeting utilizing small gangs as apposed to the destruction of the towers,"
"recently my corp was ransomed and because we refused to pay we were basically pinned in a station we maybe miners but we couldnt even come up with that in the time alotted if we tried.it got me thinking here's a few idea to help those like me1 make non mutal wars end one week from the day they can open fire legally with a downtime before then can resubmit one.that way if a young corp gets war dec'd they have a chance to build some skills and maybe defend themselves next time2alot of people buy mot build pilots ruining the quaility of the game perhaps ccp should make it so transfer have to have the same billing adress to keep thing chalenging3 i'm told ccp would like us to mine with secure cans i would like to voice the need for bigger non station cans seriously any miner would agree 27.5k unsafe is far better then 3.9k safe"
"what do 2 and 3 have to do with the wardec system?"
"why not remove wars entirelly? it's griefing apparently."
"remove wars completly lol wtf high sec would be to much safe then wars are part of peoples lives tbh removing that will make more players angry :d"
"its as good as done already as corp hopping is legalhow any1 gets pinned into a war is beyond me!"
"i came up with these two ideas in response to issues raised on the csm discussion for the specific changes to sov thread.in the discussion there are two rather distinct groups concerned about implications. large 0.0 powers understandably do not want to turn 0.0 into a giant capture the flag game as if anyone who flies into 0.0 can get a participation ribbon. non-large 0.0 entities would like to see more fluidity to the mechanics such that their ability to field the largest capital fleet is not the only measure of how well they can plant their flag in 0.0. am i right on these two concerns? inviting statements, especially from jade and darius, to steer this proposal in the most successful direction prior to any escalation.proposal abstract:pos modulation arrays. off-grid. direct involvement in pos combat. lower fuel requirements and increase grid at the expense of more indirect tower exposure.ferry drones. automated haulers that greatly simplify pos management, but are vulnerable and fit will with the risk/reward mantra of eve.sov mechanics and pos issues:in the numerous \"ccp fix lag now!\" threads and talks of anti-blobbing mechanics, it's often brought up that starbases contribute significantly to the reality that blobbing is a winning strategy. other concerns mentioned in this ccp thread. i beleive all these concerns are interrelated and can be effectively addressed together to bring great justice to tranquility. goals:pos warfare happens across several grids in a meaningful way that creates more challenging engagement dynamics fun and reduces lag to delay the onset of skill-negating lag-fests which operate to neutralize the impact of good tactics.logistics is much easier to 0.0 powers who wish to set up their infrastructure to take care of itself. the price is increased exposure to non sov-changing threats. the reward for all is more frequent small-gang forays into friendly territory and the good pvp that provides.ground rules:any changes to sov mechanics and pos warfare that give more fluidity and exposure to smaller gangs must come with additional advantages afforded to 0.0 powers.because lag is a problem that affects everyone negatively and because single-grid blob warfare is where the worst cases of lag are seen, moves to break up pos warfare battles to several grids should be non-voluntary. as non-voluntary changes, they must be focused on breaking up pos battles across multiple grids to ease lag, not on giving out free 0.0 to anyone who can fly a ship.since starbase logistics only affect sitting 0.0 powers, changes to starbases logistics should be voluntary such that non-participation is an option when it's strategically disadvantageous. the changes must focus on making starbase logistics easier with a consequence of increased exposure to small threats.this isn't about moar should or shouldn't be better. it's about fighting stay-at-home tactics, reducing lag fests, and breaking up blobs. moar is better. however, with the current state of lag and blob encouraging mechanics, better is not as much better as simply bringing moar."
"control tower modulation array new off-grid structure for pos warfare and logistics burden reducing called modulation array. deployed at control tower, where it warps to a location off-grid and anchors itself. sized arrays. every tower can field four arrays. the rp explanation is that the arrays create a field between the array and the tower that harvests gravity field flux as a power source and lowers starbase fuel requirements while raising starbase power grid. current towers should get a decrease in available power grid, as this is a non-voluntary change where non-participation comes with a price.logistics burden reducingfor logistics, the job of the arrays is very simple. modules anchored at the tower can be set to take power from an array, which requires no fuel, and thus the amount of fuel required for a tower is decreased by having arrays. since the array allows the tower to not have to rely so much on its internal facilities, all fuel type consumption should be decreased.combat overviewfor combat, there should be a complex set of transactions between the tower and its arrays that will satisfy the following requirements:diminished returns for force present at one location compared to spread out forces at several locations arraysinability to treat arrays as stepping stones where blobbing them sequentially replaces blobbing the towerdraft of specific combat behavior:arrays repair towerwhen the tower is below full shield, arrays will begin charging up a shield burst to send to the tower. what is a shield burst? imagine the energy sifter from predator. twenty or so little blue fireflies of shield energy that are targetable are spawned. they move at frig-weapon speeds and grow in charge and size geometrically. as they get larger, the slow down. they coalesce and eventually form a single ball with a very high rate of shield building. when it's complete, it is sent to the tower at ~10km/s where it adds ~1m shield. the charge is cyclic. defeating one cycle early means it won't begin charging again until the next cycle would normally begin.array reinforcingwhenever an array is damaged to 25% it goes into a shield recharging reinforced mode and consumes stront at a constant rate. unused stront will remain in the bay when the array is put back online. the shield recharge comes from the diverted power of the gravitational flux capture, thus any modules powered by the array will be offline until the array is back out of reinforced. the array can be repaired to become active faster. the rate of recharge is fairly high, thus constant watch is needed to keep arrays from becoming online.tower attempts to keep arrays onlineif the tower detects that it has sufficient shield and that an array is about to go offline, it will canibalize its own shield buffer to build up a shield burst non-targetable that is sent to reactivate the array. the pos is attempting to keep itself alive by keeping its arms healthy so they can continue sending shield bursts.tower reinforcementwhen the tower is sent into reinforced, the arrays also go into reinforced, but as a function of the pos's stront timer, not their own stront bays. because the array shield recharging is powered by the gravitational flux collectors, the shields of the arrays will recharge even while they are under the reinforcement of the pos. thus, regardless of what happens during the reinforcement, the arrays will be at full shield when the pos comes out, and will play a very valuable role from the beginning in tower takedowns."
"ferry drones:welcome to pos logistics made skull-numbingly easy. no more individual fueling, hauling moon extract to reactors, compounds to more reactors, or constant involvement to keep silos from overfilling. the price is that you have to keep the roaming threat tamped down, but you'll have more time to do it.where do ferry drones come from? belly buttonferry drones should be cheap, expendable, easy to deploy, easy to replace, easy to set up, cheap, easy to re-deploy, cheap, and a complete breeze all around to work with. bpo's should be made available on the scale of marshmallows in a box of lucky charms. materials should come from veldroids.what can my ferry drones do for me?ferry drone programming should be customizable, simple, and capable of making the following processes almost automatic:if there is fuel in a corp hanger and a tower needs fuel, a drone comes to make the delievery. thus a single stockpile of fuel will compeltely satiate the needs of towers in a peaceful system.if a reaction has completed or a mining cycle has finished and the product is needed elsewhere, the ferry drones can ship it automatically.finished products can be aggregated at a single hangar array.what can ferry drones carry?ferry drones will carry anything that can be required/produced from a pos operation. this includes all moon-stuffs, refines, fuel, and finished products. once set up, the server simply looks at the number of ferries available within that systems network and dispatches them to complete all user-defined hauling jobs. they warp to the location with the goods, take it to where it needs to go, but come out of warp just a bit before reaching the bubble. they can also be interdicted from the same grid using bubbles like usual.how would i program my ferry drones?i've come up with a preliminary design for programming that should be farely straightforward and effective. a pair of need and availability scripts that can be generated for a good, you can have the job driven by either need or availability by setting a value in either respective script. once you place the scripts in the proper locations with the desired values, the job is registered. any drones that exist in the system will attempt to complete any registered job whose conditons are met. thus re-deployment is a matter of building/buying new drones with no additional setup required."
"large mechanics changesjust a sweet list of things that immediately came to mind about what implications these new modules have for pos warfare and logistics.if you can figure out the pattern of ferry drones in a system, you can disrupt logistics. alternatively if the ferries are carrying anything valuable, you can interdict their routes and scoop their loot.pos's can be damaged indirectly by attacking the arrays and watching the pos heal them out of reinforced as long as it has shields. eventually you can trip the pos to reinforced and thereby cost the owner a lot of fuel with a medium sized gang if they won't come fight. you cannot destroy a pos through arrays however, because the arrays go into reinforced on a more friendly system and will always have full shield when the tower comes out of reinforced. every array tries to heal the tower and the tower tries to keep all arrays online.since committing forces to one array of the pos too early either in defense or attack will mean the opposition can blob you/just support the tower from a different array, fleet battles will become measured escalations of skirmish battles where the goal is to make as much headway as possible while keeping as many cards up your sleeve.okay done now. time to hit the crack pipe =d"
"nande, there's one specific problem i see and one general one.specifically, if these two changes are to be completel optional, i'm not sure how it would improve pos warfare. existing 0.0 powers might as well continue doing what they've been doing rather than introduce new vulnerabilities to their territory just to gain some logistics improvements. essentially it's all carrot, no stick, and runs a serious risk of just being ineffective in bringing about the desired changes because it's opt-in only.generally i think there's a broader issue of whether pos warfare should be the totality of what sovereignty is. ccp has said they are disappointed with the limitations that pos warfare imposes on sovereignty, and in the end i think the solution they're going to come up with is to make pos warfare part, but not all of what it means to hold territory. so while there are specific improvements that can be made to pos warfare, that's not going to solve the overall question of improving sovereignty."
"this op is a good start and a major improvement on previous topic presented.should be coupled with a general decrease in pos hit points, with pos modulation arrays that bring the pos capabilities close to current values. small gang fights take out modulation arrays, crippling pos to about 50% functionality. however, adding the small fights can't take away the major engagement objective. large fleet fight at pos finishes the battle.on the general idea of how sovereignty is determined, i think that infrastructure in this case pos should remain the major factor, although the mechanic of pos deployment/destruction can and should be streamlined."
"the changes brought by arrays are not effectively optional. by design the benefits afforded by arrays should be balanced against a nerfed base tower that is highly reliant on arrays to reach its full potential. a naked tower that eats more fuel than current towers, has less hp, and can only run a few guns should be a goal. thus the choice to opt out and try to play blob warfare just makes the tower that much easier to reinforce, exacerbating the fueling issue and in fact adding the same amount of exposure to smaller threats.one step at a time arrays are for breaking up the conflict across several grids so that a fleet battle will have less lag and rely more on mobility and tactics, where winning a series of skirmishes can to an extent make up for inability to field a fleet large enough to take on the undivided enemy head on, which is the only choice currently for holding onto sov.there is a broader issue of whether or not pos's should encompass all aspects of sov, but that's not as well agreed upon. everyone hates the lag-fests that happen when the defender comes out to fight. everyone thinks pos warfare is pretty boring when the defender is down and out and won't show up. i'm going straight for the most well-supported themes. big fights suck because of lag. non-fights suck because they're boring. there are some accidental consequences that will accomplish what would be the goal of layered sov, but what the arrays are mainly about is breaking up the conflict into smaller bites. in large part to reduce lag and blobbing. also so that a defender, while unable to attain total victory, can have measured impact on the battle and might be able to gain the upper hand through skillful whittling of an attacker to put them in striking distance. the result i'd hope is that a big tower smash fest that used to be boring as hell because the defender knows they don't have a chance might become a series of smaller skirmishes surrounding the tower smash fest. might not change the battle, but would give a defender much more capability to influence the war over a series of engagements."
"ah that makes sense, if the array-less pos is nerfed then that could be enough incentive to use arrays.i like where fahtim is going. but i do think that conventional sovereignty based only on how many pos you can set up is flawed."
"i didn't take the space to point this out very clearly, but the reasoning behind the flashy shield burst mechanism with coalescent geometric growth is actually for a very specific purpose.add one more feature to tower behavior. when an array is damaged past a certain point 10% or so the tower will attempt to heal it based on the current amount of dps on it. the tower is trying to keep all four arrays online. thus if array #3 is taking a certain amount of dps, it will require a shield burst of x points to keep it online at given time t. smart toweralthough the shield burst is very potent hp/s to the tower when delivered in full, they're easily nullified at the very beginning stages. 20 or so small targets that will take a minute or two to even get up decent size. a hac or two could probably single-handedly stop the whole process if they're quick about it.if you put a large amount of dps on a an array down to 90% shields, the tower will attempt to heal it for the next ten minutes of punishment regardless of whether you keep shooting or not. result is massive amounts of over-heal.normally, the tower's hp buffer would be replaced by the shield bursts, but since a hac can solo each burst, if you are very crafty and have enough time, you can put the tower into reinforced by sequentially getting the tower to prepare to heal your large damage spikes. result is that you can do about 4x the dps against the tower by attacking the arrays. suddenly your gang of 3k dps is doing a cumulative 12k on the tower. this only works up to a certain point and doesn't work at all for dreads since they can't move from array to array fast enough.a very mid-size gang friendly way of reinforcing a tower.this has benefits for groups large and small. large 0.0 powers have an easier way to reinforce multiple towers that requires splitting up. small powers have a way of driving up the fuel bill/disrupting pos operation of an alliance who has territory they want even if they can't win the fleet engagements outright.i believe this was the benefit to harassment tactics the star fraction bloc is looking for.large 0.0 entities need not fret over the constant threat of ten-domi reinforcement squads. first of all, the process can be forced to take time via the intervals of shield bursts and the maximum burst size. since it takes time, you should have enough forces to get your act together. there are no additional timezone elements since you'd be talking about a small gang. if it's a large gang, you wouldn't repel them anyway in a peak vs. off-peak situation. nothing new.please comment on this mechanic. i didn't throw it out there immediately because it seems a little rough still."
"well, i was inclined to support this thread, the getting an idea of the direction of the game from ccp part, not the pirates want more noob bait part, until ki an posted this.people are entitled to their opinions, such is life, get used to it.sorry, now not supported!ab"
"are you 12 years old by any chance?"
"hi!what if ccp enforced us to go into player corps by raising tax in npc corps for all older then 4 months?but at the same time limit operational time of corps to 2 months in which corp has to get at least 10 members into it. if there is 9 and below members in corp after 2 months, corp is closed and players are returned into npc corps.why? there is thousand of 1-man corps which isnt point of having corporation and there are thousand alts in npcs corp which should find their way out of that.eve is mmorpg,let make it that way by playing massively in corporations, not playing single player game online..flame away.."
"sigh.you don't need to be in a multi-person corp to play the game socially. chribba, for example, is his own one man corp and alliance and has been for years."
"one man corps are fine."
"wait. chribba is a one man corp/alliance? where's my ceo's \"wardec approved\" stamp?! i mean, come on! he'd have to hire mercenaries, and really, how long could any one guy hold out? sooner or later, his isk would dry up, right?"
"yes, because let's tell people they're not allowed to play the game socially unless we think their circle of friends is big enough. the npc corp changes i can at least understandeven if i don't agree, but the changes you're proposing to player corps are just dumb."
"you must work for ccp's marketing department. all this will do is get ppl to start alt accounts, have them join their corp. some of those accounts might stay active for longer than the 14day trial.most will let their \"alt\" accounts lapse into inactivity. inactive accounts still contribute to the number of people in a corp. easy work around found, which means your \"solution\" is flawed."
"tax npc corps after 4 months. no. why? because for some people who play the game casually and i was one of them for a long time, we liked the npc corp. we helped newer players figure out the game and got them to on thier roads to where-ever. tax the npc corps and people like azia burgee will not be around to help out new players who need the helping hand.have 10 members in 2 months. no. why? because alot of people, myself included, form the small corp in order to not have to be called \"newbs\" anymore and avoid being slapped around in a big corp, relegated to a position of gopher. some form small corps because they just want to do stuff with friends and maybe they only have three or four of them in the game at this time. telling them to get 10 members in two months will merely cause grief, especially if ur taxing them in the npc corps which u are now saying that they will be booted back into. i have had a couple people toss out forms to join my corp but they are alts looking for a place to just hang or worse spies or scammers. why would i want them? for alot of people, being able to make a small corp 1-5 people is all they want to do. small corps of just ur own toon and some friends is easy to manage and usually not a target for war-decs or scammers looking to screw you over. eve is designed for both co-opeative play and solo play and that is what makes it so good in comparison to something like warcrack. in that game you have to do the end game stuff in big groups or you don't go, and for some that's not what they want. i personally have played the game almost completely solo without interaction for close to 2 years before i gained the group of friend i know hang with. but i created my own little 2 man corp me and my alt in order to be not a \"newb corper\" and not part of a massive overbearing group. it's me and i like that, and i am sure lots of other 1-2man corps are of similar thought./rant"
"wait a sec, how is this fun? because then people like me are forced to play the game your way? i'm in a 1-man corp and always will be. i'm social enough to satisfy myself, and occasionally chat with others. that makes me social. but i don't jet out in the vast emptiness of space just so i can be annoyed by the corp tab in my chat window. i head out there to explore and be alone most of the time.sure, i'd be more than happy to find my way into a large corp like you suggest if you also give me the ability to completely hide the chat window, no blinky, no bottom-row tab, no nothin'. then we can both have our cake and eat it too.or here's another idea... invite me into your corp."
"why not"
"yes - but try it on the test server obviously.edit: it's beyond me why every week there isn't a different game mechanic test on the test server."
"no. dumb idea. ccp should focus on new aspects of the game instead of adhering to whiners on the fourms...taymees"
"not needed, leave them alone"
"maybe i'm misreading my original post, but i think i stated that their speed should be boosted in an age where speed is about to get sunk making them much harder to catch. they still get a 2 minute bubble but it's greatly diminished in size. if they want a maximum range effect, they can keep a 20km bubble up, but it's going to require frequient drops over 2 minute span rather than 1 drop.keep in mind it's likely webs are gonna get nuked also, so a speedy small ship will soon be very hard to kill as intended. add to this shields that can hit upwards of 3k if fit with extenders and a speed plus small shield buffer becomes a very effective ship.i think part of the problem with the people in this thread is they hear a change and refuse to consider all the current and future factors that are going to come into game play.i'd really like dictors to keep the 8-10km/second speeds that would keep them usable. are they still going to suck in lag, sure, but what ship doesn't already. bare in mind, the speed is a bit lower than currently achievable b/c the command ship bonus will likely be gone soon.honestly, this proposal goes well with the current nano nerf when you consider that fleets will be given more maneuverability if and until a perma bubble or heavy dictor gets on a gate."
"posting to show this is a bad idea."
"from another forum but i want it here...the dictor still keeps the 20km bubble per the post. it's only losing the duration of said bubble so that it's not a lingering effect if the ship is popped. the 5km bubble holds the duration, so 2x launchers could be very effective at throwing down 2 5km bubbles. i'd rather a dictor have more speed, less guns and be responsible more for dropping bubbles than replacing the frigate.the point of it is to remove a single ship's ability to tackle large portions of fleet. this allows more flyby attempts w/o making them impossible to counter. this is a very quick path to reducing the amount of people needed for fleet warfare and thus reducing blob mechanics. the better more skilled fleet flyby becomes an alternative again.older bob members and their competition should remember the 50 man flyby fleets causing havoc on triple their numbers. this would bring back this tactic to an extent but with more reprocussions since dictors are in game. keep in mind, dictors were added to game b/c of flyby fleets in and out of grid constantly. but their so good at their job, it's enhanced blobbing b/c the fleet are held down way to easy now a days.i dunno, maybe make the bubble 20 second duration, but 2 minutes is a joke for that size bubble."
"crap idea. raising issues to compensate for your inadequacies ftw."
"i live in 0.0. i *like* living in 0.0. the plentiful, bounteous rats, the high-end minerals, the cap ships and dictor bubbles and nano blobs and alliance politics - i love it all. there is, in fact, really only one thing i don't like about living la vida lowsec:the darn random-character system names.i understand the reasons for it -- there are so many of them it's just not practical for the devs to name them all. but i think it would be really cool if people could propose names for the systems they frequent on a first-come, first-served basis. the rules would be as follows:1. to propose a name for a system, you must be in that system.2. the name must be under a certain length whatever the current system name field length is, presumably.3. the name must not be obscene/offensive pass it through the forum censor or whatever before accepting it.4. the name must be unique.this could be automated, and it'd be neat for those of us with explorer tendencies to get out there and really name the stars. plus it would add a whole lot of color to those dry and boring 0.0 system names. :"
"ane end up with another etherium reach? hell no."
"<noob>and what happened with etherium reach?</noob>"
"just change the numbers in either syllables or lettersfrom leet speak and add vowels to the results until you can pronounce them. no need to use a complicated process of people proposing names, reviewing them and applying them that'd only result in cheese and idiocy really."
"after all of the bugs have been killed, you can do this."
"isn't naming your station enough?"
"yes, i'm sure that we wouldn't have 500 systems in eve named after **** stars or phallus's."
"it's plenty."
"bad idea, ccp will have to police \"innapropriate\" names all the time. sometimes you won't get the meaning, but some part of the players will.best to not even allow station renaming."
"you mean we will not see names like: p3n-1s?"
"a slight improvement in many stats and abilities would be much better then boosting one ability over the top to get this ship to work.and only boosting one ability/stat really ruins the versatility of the ship overall by making it so that you must use the boosted stat or be gimped. an overall general boost to cpu, pg, sig radius of the ship and its drones or any combination of the ideas presented all over the forums would open up different fitting options and make the ship viable and versatile."
"look at my thread please, and then tell me what you think.personally, i think that they need to give both the force recons and the hacs a considerable kick in the ass boost, until they have a shot at going up against and killing battlecruisers, so that the price and training time for them is actually warranted."
"i like the pilgrim but the in web range is somewhat unnerving. without a drone bonus and adding a range bonus to neut/nos it would allow the pilgrim to deal more damage as it's using heavy drones but have less variety as it only has a 150m^3 drone bay it allows the pilgrim to use sentries meaning it can ewar, damage and cap warfare a target at range. i think it would change pilgrim setups so i'm not exactly sure of the idea."
"not all of us think that heavy drones are such a good idea, what with them being slower and more easily targeted and knocked out..."
"while the pilgrim isn't great at the moment, i suggest you give it a try after ea 1.1. while its problems stem from its lack of range, post-patch web range is no longer guaranteed death, and the pilgrim has a cap warfare advantage, as well as the tracking advantage. it might not be enough, but it will almost certainly have more use following the speed and web nerf.wait and see is the order of the day."
"i think that most pilgrim pilots are quite concerned anyway, what with the ship having limited damage, the tracking disruptors and their bonus being of very contestable use, and things like the recent cutting of 200 armor from the ship, which is meant as an armor tank and thus already has a rather inferior shield... all of these points are very hard to get around, even after the patch. so while the cap warfare bonus might be considerable, if the ship can't bring down the opposition that it's scaled for, that just makes it all the more pathetic and irritating to its pilots."
"basically as it stands the marauders generally combine bonuses of the top tier battleships to make one machine that can deal tons of damage and tank god. apocs recently have been changed to integrate the cap bonus in favor of an optimal range boost, and the paladin should get the same bonus. why? the golem has a range bonus in the form of velocity. the vargur has a range bonus in the form of a falloff bonus. the kronos is a blaster boat so range isn't exactly a huge concern. why should the paladin be able to hit rats/enemies with higher damage ammo at similar ranges like the golem and vargur can? granting the same bonus to the paladin gives it a megapulse range of about 30km with multifrequency crystals. this would make life much more fun for ratting as crystal switching for kiting rats wouldn't be a huge issue anymore.tl;dr:apoc gets a range bonus and integrated cap bonuspaladin has the cap bonus as a throwback to the old apocpaladin should get range bonus like 2 of the 3 other marauders"
"i agree."
"this really makes sense if you think about it."
"down and up"
"hell yeah dude this is overdue"
"paladins need to get auras like in diablo 2. and a smite ability. and some of those flying hammers."
"well, that means at bs 5 which you need to have you get 50% more range. which means with my tachys my optimal would be 52.5km. i don't know about anyone else, but i'd pull a pocket, and only start shooting when they got within 40km - the range of my tractors. i wouldn't need the extra range.but, if they become viable for pvp, then yes, this is a good thing."
"give it falloff bonus, and itll be great counter-whinealso paladin has 4 guns when compared to apoc, which, as you know, has 8, which doubles cap usage."
"i don't see what the problem is with the paladin, i don't want to engage stuff so far away i have to slowboat out to get it.currently i can hit with scorch l out to 72km with my paladin and an onerios, which is more than sufficient to pull aggro.they will definately need a buff to web function with the upcoming nano adjustment, though."
"no way. with hammer of justice and divine intervention the paladin is already totally overpowered. i don't see the need to buff it any further. blizzard should focus on classes that really are underpowered like the priest or druid."
"this thread got to be a joke, right? right?"
"this is ******ed. why on earth would you /boost/ the best marauder? definite no to this nonsense suggestion."
"hey have one actually - all the web effectiveness bonuses have been increased to 10%, so a t2 web 60% would actually web for 80%."
"tarminic cant count, lols.60x1.5=90."
"seriously, why would you want to boost a paladin?20:45:40 combat your tachyon beam laser ii perfectly strikes sansha overlord, wrecking for 3949.9 damage.the thing is an engine of destruction and is perfect the way it is. i can hit to 50+km with my tach ii's but i never end up engaging over 40km because of the tractor bonus.so really buffing it at all would lead to the paladin being used in pvp, and the consequent whining about how overpowered it is."
"you are correct. maths has not been my strong point of late."
"since you cannot fly against an asteroid in the game and lose the ship that wayfraud insurrance, the selfdestruct isk must remain. edit: failtype"
"/supported"
"i support this."
"you are perpetuating a stereotype of your alliance.windjammer"
"oh agree mucho."
"this idea makes sense."
"woops, posted new topic by mistake."
"ok so i thought if this like just a few miniuts ago. fyi i have desliesik and i dont have good spelling so if you feel need to re right this for me plz do.my idea for a new option onto the gtc is to have a pause or freeze button this means that if people go on holiday or go on a business trip for a long time they wont loose any money or game time because they can just freeze or pause there game time. to me this idea will help the customers alot and we really need this or something like this since gtc's are really expensive now. i dnt want any whiner's in here just say i agree or say what you think should be done to help the idea dnt whine people are sick and tide of whines now so if you go to whine just gtfo :thnx for reading i have load more on spot ideas but never posted em because of all whines and my bad spelling loledit:posted with my alt by mestake sorry my real charater is eliminator2 carnt wait till i get ride of my alts yay lol"
"i do think this idea has been trolled through in the past. its not gonna work..."
"step 1: buy gtc.step 2: train skill. step 3: pause until skill is complete. step 4: reactivate.step 5: repeat steps 2-4. step 6: sell ludicrously overlevelled character for billions of isk. /not signed."
"pause = skills pause too i guess"
"whats this, a trend?if you dont like it you come to whine to forums about it and hope ccp will fix it...<insert random roleplaying rambling about ship sizes here>"
"it's like there's a ccp-made forum for game change proposals that he posted it on. as for the idea, i don't much care either way."
"well that explains how ubar this idea is.if you want the item, bid for it, sniping sucks balls."
"sniper options and general auction improvements? yup, sounds like a plan."
"could the csm's bug ccp about getting the economic letter out more frequently?"
"you mean the quarterly, that is soon to be 3 issues behind.....i guess we can just start refering to it as the annual economic news letter.btw, somewhere on these forums, cant find the link, but lavista did actually report that while in iceland he had spoken to dr.e. who was sorry for the delay and is reportedly \"working\" on it."
"yup - if ccp is paying him for a quarterly economic newsletter, we should get it at least approximately quarterly. soontm is annoying enough with nifty new features, but with the really cool stuff* like mmo economic analysis it's just not right. * - not sarcasm, i've given serious thought to doing a master's thesis on the topic."
"my hulk is fit with the following couldnt resist:3x mod strip2x hardener1x pithi-b small booster1x domi sba1x damige control1x pee dee es2x cccnote: it would be fit with more awesome stuff if i wasnt poor. and it can tank good against angels, and really crappy against sanshabut some spawns tankable!"
"ducttape fix."
"um, what problem does this address again?"
"to opjust get into a 0.0 corp and get all the excitement you wish. let other players do as they wish. there's so many reasons what you suggest is wrong that it's daunting even to start writing about it.proposing to change the game just to suit your imaginary needs and expectations is beyond comment i'm afraid."
"forcing people who want to make a buck into gankspace will never, and has never re: exodus expansion = monumentally failed attempt to push the playerbase to <0.4 work or worked.people want to be reasonably confident they can enjoy their game experience without the fear of being attacked without forwarning or reason, that's why 75% of the playerbase resides on 20% of the map.can they make good money? you betcha, but that's their choice in how to make that money. people who exist solely in 0.0 make money too, and a heck of a lot more of it, it's only lowsec that has problems because it cannot be claimed and held, there is no concord/police presence, and it's essentially one huge free-for-all area.one caveat though... faction warfare has made previously difficult to survive regions of lowsec almost 'safe' for neutrals by driving off the less cautious pirates."
"introduce a new tier of npc-corps, one that can be wardecced for a large sum.impose a tax on players in the old npc-corps, based on their time spent there.so, when a new character is created he/she will automatically be instated in a classic tier 1 npc-corp. first two weeks there will be no taxes. over a period of time say three months taxes will increase until it reaches 50%. when the pilot leaves the tier 1 npc-corp for either a player driven corp or a tier 2 npc-corp, he/she can never return to the tier 1 npc-corp. when a player leaves a player driven corp, it will always be to a tier 2 npc corp, unless the pilot has moved to another player driven corp.when the pilot arrives to the tier 2 npc-corp, he/she will be immune to any current wardec against that corp for 3 days or at least some form of limited time, in order to not be kicked straight into a conflict. these three days will not reset if the pilot transfers to another corporation and then back again during this period, to stop it from being abused. this immunity should not be repeatable for at least seven days.possibly the fw-militia could be classed as a tier 2 npc-corp, since they are at a constant war. there could also be tier 2 npc-corps that are involved in fw to various degrees, adding an industrial aspect of fw.alternatively, there could be a possibility to purchase a 'letter of marque' against a pilot who is protected by the temporal immunity given by the tier 2 npc-corp, but only during the period when said pilot is protected by the temporal immunity."
"if you want to make it like real life insurance, just do this:1. you pay for insurance.2. they use the money to find legal ways not to pay your claim.3. they draw out any court claim to the maximum possible timeframe, or until you cry uncle and go home less-than-empty-handed.4. they win, you lose.simple. lets make insurance a way for stupid people to lose their money.also, let's make it mandatory like irl."
"i hate hearing caldari pilots cry that the amarr might have a better hac than they do. i do not hear them complain about there drake being far more powerful than any amarr bc. the point is that different races have different strengths. some race is going to have a ship that just is better or is easier to make a good build than the other races per class. i am sorry to the caldari that the amarr get hacs. the sac is not better than the cerb, it just is used differently. however how its use just happens to be more useful in most engagements."
"this idea doesnt have an eve feel to it, so i'm not supporting it. if it goes through the only way for it to work is to let it become totally optional mute music or everyone gets free kill rights on lousy musicians."
"1 character per account is a bit too drastic i think. some people prefer to pay for only one account and use remaining slots to train basic low sp alts, such as hauler alts. alts can also be trained on another account and then transfered to the main character's account.a better solution would be to add a tab under character information in game that would list two other characters on the same account. it will not remove alt scouts, but it will allow people to check who they belong to. and it does resolve alt posting issue."
"what about the people who have 3x 60m sp characters on 1 account?there are a lot of directors and ceo's like this, and veterans."
"i have 3 characters used on this account. 1 indy and research character, 1 market charater, and 1 pvp main... stupid idea, stfu, just because you have 2 other characters that only have 900,000 sp doesnt mean everyone is like you, most of us actually use the other 2 slots for something productive.taymees"
"terrible idea. alts are half of what makes this game fun. also, with the free trial, you wouldn't be killing alts, you'd just be killing alts that could last a useful period. you'd be building scouting alts by the thousand, to no purpose. and your rationale is entirely about cutting off your nose to spite your face, which i'm also against."
"when i read this i hear people whining. whining people complaining about people that are whining,.. how ironic. i remember the first post-er of this tropic catching me in my heron afk scanning in a 0.4 mamouna system, wasting a very expensif set of implants. my own fault, but what the hell im not whining, where else u got merc's for"
"[quote/]in short, are you really blaming the csm for being hard-working?so you define hard-working as:1 see thread with \"0.0\" or \"sov\" in the title.2 open thread.3 hit reply.4 type \"please fill this out with a more detailed proposal.\"5 check support.6 hit submit.7 edit topic into csm agenda.well, it is a whole seven steps, and i didn't even include all the steps needed to edit the agenda. so i guess you might have a point.seriously though, \"hard-working\" in this context would involve an active effort to build a consensus around an idea by soliciting buy-in from the relevant base of players. and not just 50 random peons i'm looking at you ankhsh2lfoslv.asdlf, people who matter in the game. guess what, bob don't waste much time on this csm crap, and most of them don't read the assembly hall or eve-o in general. many russians or tcf might not even be able to read english. a hard-working csm member would be making an effort to get in touch with the important individuals who actually live in 0.0 and get some feedback from them before tossing the idea off to the rest of the do-nothing know-nothing congress for a vote. just because a group of people can't stand these forums doesn't mean that their opinion is irrelvant. it's highly relevant.e: here is one step-by-step for success:1 recognize that 0.0 is the land of elitist *******s who don't necessarily bother or have the ability to read eve-o. remember that ccp doesn't really get involved in big 0.0 powerblocks after the t20 scandal and that certain players really do know more than the devs do about some aspects of their game. get ready to play along with people's egos to accomplish something.2 get a shortlist of people who would be useful to ask about 0.0 and sov warfare. hint: one of them sits on the council already! the others are major players in the large 0.0 powerblocks. they are people who have played the 0.0 game for a long time and have big-picture views, as well as a large personal investments in the game, and a lot of subordinates to take care of.3 present to them whatever idea you have.4 incorporate their feedback to improve the idea. or if they collectively suggest that the idea is trash, then ****can it.5 eventually bring to the csm a plan that has a large chance of being successful if implemented because the people who understand the complicated inter-woven big-picture issues have at least not struck it down outright.i agree all we need a csm to do is to actually go into the topic count how many supports they have and then ask for a more detailed description and look at every topic and some1 that can actually hold there ground towards ccp on the arguments as well not that this may be a problem with holding ur ground i wish i was older 17 atm -_- to go to iceland then id go and put my self in a vote to be csm ^^"
"why is jade filling half the slots with his stuff and where the hell are the rest of the council members? shouldn't there be like 9 or something?"
"jade constantine in regards to number 8 about donating isk to real world charities. might i suggest to look up a name called crazyjoe for the game ultima online. if you get into contact with him that'll be even better. some years ago we did the same thing and donated millions upon millions of gold. we raised $10,000 for what i believe was for the tsunami relief fund and the red cross. it made headlines on various news outlets so finding it shouldn't be too difficult. i'll see what i can pull up for you as well.his main website is gamerscharityregards, md.-editsarticle on msnbcnews articlenews article when we reached 1 billion gold donated"
"we are working on \"larger\" issues, in terms of actual size and reachthough i'm working on smaller issues too, a number of them even. also the submission date is not for another week, so there is still plenty of time."
"interesting. is there a place where you announced what those \"larger\" issues are and i can read up on them? at the moment it kinda looks as if you just do your thing and to hell with the rest of the players. more positive publicity might be a good idea for the csm..."
"well, i can only speak for myself: right now, i don't have much to showbeen on holiday the last week, so have really not had time. but look out for it on the market discussion forum, i will be posting much more about it there."
"dominix used to be able to launch 15 drones...offer something new please, until then you might just poast more with your alt."
"huh, original poster is a complete attention seeking moron and this thread contains much epic ******ation by failswarm"
"nice corp."
"i am wondering is why is this thread still active in here? i meen what the heck are the forum mods doing?this isn't even worthy of consideration, and despite my feelings towards the csm itself i have to wonder how much hipocrisy runs around these forums and this playerbase...yeh jade used some stronger words in a forum... wow big deal! call in the un comitee!!! ... get a grip people, if i was in some of ccp's staff shoes i would have been more worried about gs declarations of ruining eve and the unacceptable proliferation of mindless alts and sort of characters around here. in fact, jade may not be perfect, but at the very very least he has appeared in most threads defending csm  agendas and sh*t cast aside  while most of the representatives didn't even bother or only appeared to help and degradade the csm image by atacking its chairman.i can just point the gs member directly atacking jade and nothing has been done! geee how wonderfull ccp."
"yes, and numerous people have been testing on sisi and have stated that the nerfs are too much, and as bad as they sound on paper."
"yep as soon as nozh gets his information from those players that are testing it and hopefully make some adjustments. then we can bring up an \"issue\" with the csm as to the specific issues we would like them to reconsider.it makes it much easier to address specific issues that they plan after the sisi patch testing, then trying to bum rush the devs with out even knowing where they are in the process. you would only have to create one draft and a very poniente draft of proposal than guessing on half of it on what they plan to introduce to tq or not.tl:drpresent a clear and focused \"issue\" to the csm on the confirmed changes to be intoduced to tq after the sisi testing."
"posting in a \"i thought he was talking about the things on his ass from sitting too long in front of his computer\" thread."
"what if one could clone jump once every 12 hours?1. boost fw participation as smaller corps that reside in 0.0 sec could jump clone to empire to partake.2. station camping would be less effective.3. managing pos in distant systems would be more manageable.4. picking up the groceries from jita would be less of a hassle.5. frequency of log-on traps could sky rocket.6. traders would become more versatile.i have heard this idea mentioned before and thought it might be worth a few more words.related topic:[issue] 23h jump cloning [edit : subject, related topic]flame on!"
"i think it would be better if there was a 24hr stasis period on the 'to' and rather than the 'from' end. in other words, you can jump to a clone once that clone has been in stasis for 24hrs. this would allow a player to hit all of their jcs in 24hrs, and would give players who have trained up infomorph and have installed more clones the ability to jump more frequently.any time period less that 24 hours would probably have some detrimental timezone effect or whatnot that's complex and someone will soon point out."
"hey, maybe if i post my idea in this forum rather than the assembly hall people will pay more attention to it!"
"we don't have a channel at all. they put up the sisi testing thread, great. i believe there has been one fairly short response from nozh, and that's it. they aren't reading it. there were some serious and good posts about experiences on the new patch on sisi. however it devolved into arguing pretty quick.i don't really think they give a crap what we think. they only pander to the pve noob whiners now, because that's where the money is."
"lol"
"compared to real-world democracy, the scale, representation ratio, and hours expected of csms is really not unreasonable. they don't get paid except in the form of a working vacation, but that's not wholly unprecedented either. i look at school board trustees here in ontario, for example. toronto, a city of about 2.5 million people, has a public school board with just under 300,000 students, a budget of over $2 billion, and it's represented by 22 trustees, who until recently made $5000 per year. that's not much above the cost of two trips to iceland, and they have a far higher representation ratio, far more of a workload, and some big real-money campaign costs. toronto is an extreme example, and most boards aren't that insanely underrepresented, but it's still a bigger burden than the csm, with a whole lot more responsibility on top of that. and these positions are still contested probably 80% of the time, all over the province. i agree, we shouldn't expect them to fly around the world buying us each a nice bottle of 35-year scotchthough i'll gladly promise my vote to anyone who does, but a lot of criticisms can be reasonable."
"thank you for your insightful response. i hoped that, despite the obviously sarcastic tone and content of my post, this might be a place for a discussion based around such points.:"
"yeah and drop also some bs size npc rats in the belts"
"/signed"
"ehhhhmmm yes!!!!!!!!!!"
"totally against this idea"
"support .. sooo against this ****up nerf"
"nozh drop the sledgehammer and step away from the nanos.you may find this scalpel is more effective, i'll show you to the polycarbons. stop panting, please."
"against, but i've already cancelled all my accounts."
"against"
"against"
"againstno dramatic changes please."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"very 'gainst"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against in it's current form.something has to be done, but this feels a bit....uhmmm....radical."
"against. unless the vagabond and other speed ships are somehow balnced up so they remain a viable ship for pvp."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against in it's current form."
"against as it is currently on sisi"
"against! at least against so much stupid change in one timei had a spider in my house, ccp destroyed the building"
"against, the percentage of true snaked/factioned setup ships which these steps will curtail whilst killing off many other ship types is miniscule."
"against"
"against the nerf..!! let people have fun and stop nerfing the good things in game ..im against against against the nerf !!!!"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"againts"
"against"
"against"
"againstthis nerf is too big and broad. it will kill small gangs and create more lag."
"against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !against definitly !"
"against!"
"agains"
"i'm against."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"this season i will be mostly against the nano nuke"
"yay for nano's-n0remorse"
"against!i payed 3.0 bil to snake set.will ccp give me that iskies back ?or i will forget 3.0 b isk which i gave"
"against this and any other stupid short-sighted attempts to break the game for people who actually play it"
"against"
"against"
"against minmatar nerf!"
"against"
"if ccp needs an example of what we're needing then i suggest they fire up sins of a solar empire and uncheck the options \"use colored skyboxes\" and \"use deep space skyboxes\" in the effects menu. it demonstrates exactly what we want."
"dear god yes, being unable to see what modules are active in 90% of starsystems is absurd."
"bounty hunters and mercenaries - a visionthe csm has recently decided to try and work out a few big picture ideas. i chose to focus on the hired guns in eve: bounty hunters and mercenaries. it is currently not really possible to be a bounty hunter in eve, due to the flawed bounty system. mercenaries are more common, but still have a lot of room for improvement.this plan aims to solve the issues around these two professions.plan: nil mortifi sine lucre, a 6 page pdf file detailing the plans. if you do not have a pdf reader i suggest installing foxit reader.for the tl;dr crowd i'll try to give a short explanation of the plans, however do not criticize this plan without reading the full version!bounty hunterbounties will change into bounty contractsplayers with the bounty hunter skill can accept these contractscontracts can only be issues on players you have a kill right onbounty hunters who have accepted the contract gain a derived kill right on the target, allowing them to attack the target anywherebounty payouts will be proportionate to the approximate value of the damage inflicted on the targetmercenarymercenary corporations can issue mercenary contracts with their feescorporations involved in a concord sanctioned war can accept the merc contracts, but only if that corporation did not start the waronce accepted, the mercenary force enters the existing concord war dec on the side of their employerpayment of the mercenaries is fully automated"
"i would welcome any comments or suggestions on this plan :"
"sounds interesting and definitely worth looking into."
"i endorse this product and/or service."
"i see a couple problems. first, by making it impossible to accept contracts of over 2 million at first, you're essentially freezing out most veterans. flying across half the galaxy, finding the guy, killing him, and podding him is worth a lot more than 2 million of my time. anyone who is really gung-ho about the idea of being a bounty hunter will probably choose to endure it, but it's a roadblock. that's not necessarily bad, but it should be noted. second, why shouldn't attackers be able to use mercs? i've done wardec-piracy before, and it's not unusual to attack a corp smaller than yourself and have them hire mercs rather than paying up. in that case, we should have the option of hiring our own mercs to keep the pressure on, rather than being effectively forced to fold because they hired a corp twice our size. besides, if attackers can't hire mercs, you'll still have a business in forum-based merc services, but the results won't be tracked and all the fancy payment options will have to be human-administered. also, another similar problem - payment for kills shouldn't care who was the aggressor. i care about kills, not who gets the drop on who. all that aside, however, this is one of the best proposals of substance i've read on this forum to date, and i'm happy to support it."
"i agree with herschel, and this is an excellent proposal."
"this is a problem i also identified, and its a part of the plan that can still use polishing. at first my plan was to allow bh's to accept any contracts, but that greatly increases the risk of someone claiming their own bounty by killing themselves. and having that as a real possibility will be a reason for many people not to use bounties at all, since they dont want to end up paying the person they want to get revenge on. another good point, and one we did consider. we chose to limit it to 'victims' of a war dec to avoid a mercenary arms race where each side hires more and more mercenaries. this also makes it easier for smaller corps or industrial corps to fight pvp corps by using their money. we also hope this restriction places a realisation of risk that currently does not existing in empire wars. the attacking corp would know they might get mercs on their ass without being able to counter that directly. as for the payment, the payment in its current form doesn't care who was the aggressor, as you point out correctly only the kill matters, not who fired the first shot. did i phrase it unclear?"
"i like the ideas."
"i realize this would need a lot of work, but what about an npc bounty corp? bounties would continue as they are, but anyone wanting to choose this as a career could join said corp and as long as there is a bounty, be immune from being concorded."
"have a skill for it? that does seem to be the eve default solution to problems, after all. less grind, more train. and it's easy enough to have people not want to collect their own contracts - figure out a market value of the damageafter insurance!, and pay the bh half of that. you can collect your own contract, but it's at best a way to liquidate assets for half their value. not many people will do that. thing is, if you're going to have a mercenary arms race, you're going to have a mercenary arms race - most people won't shy away from hiring mercs just because they have to go looking on the forums for themor looking through open merc offers and evemailing the ceos involved, for that matter. this just seems like you're setting up the bewildered \"why haven't they fixed this yet?\" threads of a year from now. if you're going to fix the interface, you might as well fix the interface for everybody. here's how you phrased it: it's the \"as the aggressor\" bit that i'm questioning. use a phrasing like \"whenever a mercenary kills a concord-sanctioned enemy, a prearranged in the contract sum will be withdrawn from the corporate wallet of the corporation that has hired the mercenaries\". also, as i read that, one other minor thing comes to mind - if multiple corps are on the kill, have the kill rewards be pro-rated by kill sharedamage dealt or ships count, whichever. it's probably assumed, but it should be in the final version, since a lot of merc corps fly with their patrons, or with other mercs if multiple corps are hired."
"both are wonderful thoughts. i definitely agree that mercs should be limited to the aggressed to prevent escalation. on tangential note, i think giving empire wardecs some sort of meaningfuli'll leave what that constitutes to others end state could help address that problem. regardless of that, merc contracts sound good.bounties, otoh, seem subject to the major issue which you point out; targets claiming their own bounty, or having it claimed by someone with relations to the target. the issue of it being claimed through self destruct isn't a major one; simply make that a non-possibility similar to no insurance when you get concordokken! in order to prevent fradulent claims on the bounty, for lack of a better term, a bid system could work. licensed hunters may bid on contracts. the issuing party may then accept the contract. in the event of multiple bounties on an identical individual, some sort of corroboration system could be put in place where the hunter with the majority of confidence from issuing parties receives the full contract. something along these lines still leaves room for parties with ties to the contracted individual to gain the contract, but that could be resolved partially through leaving names out of the contract, noting only known ship types flown and other information on the target in the contract itself."
"yesthis"
"that's exactly what i was thinking. if the payout is only a fraction of the damage inflicted, there's no incentive to cash in your own bounty."
"a few good points raised!in reply to mercs only being able to be hired by the defenders in a war: the defender is having to pay large costs to hire mercs in the first place, so by declaring war on a smaller corp and forcing them to hire mercs you are inflicting economic damage to them. by allowing one side to hire mercs, it makes wars between corps a little more interesting don't you think?bounty hunters and contracts: this is possibly the biggest hurdle to overcome in terms of self-collection or should i say alt-collection of a bounty. a bounty system should not be a source of income for players that get themselves bountied or their corp mates etc. by having bounty hunting as a viable career, and limiting contracts intitially to them remember as they gain standing with the ird they get access to better contracts this stops players self-collecting. another idea floating about might be to prevent the bounty amount showing on the bountied player only bounty-hunters see what x bounty is on x player.no system is going to be completely foolproof- however, these proposals are frankly many times better than the current systems!take care,arithron"
"/signed i dont see why you need this limit,, a mercenary arms race sounds like a lot of fun to me.and as herschel said, if you only give the defeners the option, you force attackers to use forums to hire merc. which again will undermine the function you try to implement."
"a merc arms race benefits the aggressor more than the defender in many circumstances. it also places small corps at a distinct disadvantage when a large corp war decs them and, as others have stated, do it for some war-dec pirating in empire. wars should be serious business, and the act of declaring war should entail some substantial risks; currently, imo, it doesn't, especially when a large corp decs a smaller corp.the idea was also to make merc hire valid with concord ignoring interested parties etc only by going through the ird. automated payments etc would be available through this department. hiring mercs outside of the system would be possible, as currently they are- but the rub is that it's via the war dec system. thus, the hired merc corp outside of the ird declares war on defending corp....the defending corp can then hire mercs etc....take care,arithron"
"question though; why particularly a skill, and not a 'corporate mission' or a taken profession or, to make things simple and less mechanic-inducing, just something you accept through a contract?i think these changes look great. it's just that i'm curious as to why it would be a skill and what skill levels would affect and what the requisites would be..."
"are you referring to bounty hunters or mercs/defending corps?the idea behind bounty hunters having the skill is that it can easily be referenced by code for access to bounty hunter contracts etc. essentially, the ird acts as an interface for contracts. as for why mercs via the ird: ease and simplicity for a war-decced corp to find and quickly acquire the services of a merc corp or two. again, the ird would be just an interface for contracts.hope this clears that up? take care,arithron"
"i endorse this development, and look forward to trying it out if it passes the bar so to speak."
"well yeah, they'd have to launch their own wardec. but is that really a problem? you're describing the status quo. and sure, the defenders could bring in mercs through the ird, but they already can do that - if the attacker is hiring mercs, then the corp defending the merc wardec is the same corp defending the original wardec, and can hire mercs accordingly. it's easier to just encompass an entire conflict, be it with however many corps, into a single wardec, because that's fundamentally what it is. get rid of all the bureaucracy, not just half of it. and i'm not sure why you think wars don't entail risk. i've got a fair bit of experience with aggressive wars, and the vast majority of marks, in my experience, tell you to go pound sand - either they spend 5x your requested payoff on a merc force twice your size and average character age, or they hide in station and take a week off. people have a pathological aversion to just paying the guy with the gun pointed at themcf, verone's sig, and as such wardeccing for bounties is usually a waste of effort. it makes good sense if you're doing it as an attack on your opposing alliance's supply lines, or if you're settling a legitimate grudge, but the idea that it's a risk-free profit source is crazy."
"i agree that most wars entail risk, don't get me wrong. i did give the example of a large corp deccing a much smaller corp, especially in empire. these sort of wars might not pose much risk for the large corp at all. the ideas for mercs are just those; ideas. nothing is set in stone- indeed ccp, if this gets that far, will prolly adjust and change some of the proposals beyond recognition.however, the current merc system is ad hoc, and no easily reachable and instantly available system exists for many corps, who might have zero experience in pvp, let alone wars especially in empire. a system that makes wars and allows for the easy hire of mercs and a system that makes it easier for merc corps to make isk and act as true merc corps can't be bad, can it?take care,arithron"
"yeah, you can push around guys a fraction of your size, but you won't earn enough to be bothered with. they'll either bulk up to size with mercenaries, in which case they're not really smaller, huddle in station, in which case you get nothing, or pay you a ransom that's barely worth your time, effort, and risk. and besides, most pvpers like the action as much as the cash, and there's not much chance of that either. risk is basically proportional to reward, especially in pvp-type activities. and besides, it's not like you're banning the attacker from using mercs, you're just making them fight with the old interface to do so. if you're going to do a ui upgradewhich is ultimately what this is, since there's basically no new functionality here, then do it for everybody, don't pick and choose. and i'm not saying that it's set in stone, or that it's bad. i just claim that it could be better, and thus i'm trying to fix what i consider to be a fairly obvious problem while i see it, rather than assuming the person after me will catch and fix it. i still like this idea quite a lot, i'm just a nitpicker at heart."
"caps make my vote count more!"
"whilst i fly nano-ships myself, i am for this change. it was taking the fun out of the game, and i think this will turn combat back into a thinking man's game and lead to more variety"
"support"
"but people will vote with all their chars and the forum is only such a small part of the eve community."
"ccp can detect people who do that wotlankor"
"cant wait for eve to become a good and nano***less game again!120% support"
"yay?"
"make my ravens a more viable pvp ship against nano hacs..."
"support"
"support..."
"momochanchan like post support butan pushid u push butan ans help 2.xoxoxoxomomochanchan"
"man, great idea and stated simply too."
"i agree with this to an extent..however, along with that risk/reward thing, other changes need to be made.missions in low sec and 0.0 should pay way more than they currently do, meaning we dont need to grind all day making up lost time from station camps or roaming gangs. i'm not talking about bounties or loot drops either, the mission rewards ans bounses need major buffs. also, changes need to be made to the cloak/logoffski timer or all of this is for naught since currently with these screwed up game mechanics ratting or mission running in low sec or 0.0 is not risky at all given you know how to exploit like the farmers do."
"i disagree.why do some eveplayers feel the need to force other eveplayers into lowsec or nullsec?i do some l3 and l4 missions. not to many but a few if i am bored with other stuff. to force me to go to lowsec or nullsec to do those would cost me way to much, as gatecamps is present, and any ship fitted for missions can't hold their own against a ship fitted for pvp, let alone a gatecamp of pvpers. the skill and isk involved in getting a big enough ship to handle l4s will make a juicy target for any gatecamp. more so then the small frigate. i say, let the missions remain in the locations they are now, but remove any agent mission that are against any of the other races from the normal mission table and put them in the fw mission table."
"well, maybe its will be a bit hard to mission with exactly these changes, but lvl4s shouldnt be in highsec for sure. i think moving lvl4 agents to lowsec would be enough. i support this idea!"
"if you have crap spawns in 0.0 you better of making missions in empie. balanced? absolutly not.minerals are another story. no oen cares to mine them, they just refine t1 modules from loot. moving lvl 4 to low sec will fix modules flooding market for refine.veld/scord in emprie space rest go low sec/0.0."
"supporting this idea"
"whilst i agree that this is a problem, i dont think that simply moving the agents is what one might call an ideal solution. i might voice my support for moving all agents with a >-5 base quality to low sec, from lvl 1 to lvl 5.how all lvl 3 and 4 missions is ******ed."
"100% support, a change like this would do so much for the game compared to where it stands now."
"meh, i find this a bit drastic. i am a 'casual' player and changes like these would drive me away from the game i'm afraid."
"i don't entirely agree; but i do think that at the very least all lvl4 agents should be moved to low sec, i remember ccp talking about doing it ages ago but it never materialized"
"fixed for you"
"my penchant for running high sec level 4s when i'm bored is exceeded by my hatred of rmt farmers farming with impunity.supported."
"lol how do i ge"
"that's the problem, ccp is catering to people like you who rarely play the game, the players who actually play the game for what it's worth are getting screwed by people who farm without consequence."
"signed. also, goonfleet only owns a fraction of 0.0. many of our allies are allied with corps that we don't like or that are neutral to us. the rest a whole freakin' lot of 0.0 space doesn't even belong to us. quit whining."
"there is little checkbox, click it to support."
"funny, since usually the problem is ccp tunes all of it's stuff to people who play large amount and tends to ignore the rather sizable community of 5-10 hour/week player.eve is actually pretty attractive for the casual players, esp with the skill system. it's a game where someone who plays 5 hours/week or less can still be active in a corp of hardcore people and still be useful.but scaling things to the hardcore group has always been kinda annoying 'well just replace your implants! it only takes a day or two of ratting!' when it take a casual player over a month.casual players generally don't want risk free, but our risk table looks a lot different then a hardcore gamer since it takes so much longer to get any loss back not to mention longer to get something in the first place.in another one of these treads someone was commening how impossible the game would be if everyone only got one mission per day. many players already live with that and we do fine."
"a month to replace implants? +4s take an hour of level 4 missions at most.and really, podding doesn't happen all that often, especially ij empire."
"poast"
"a month for the set.true, a single l4 can potentially pay for a single implant. but that is if you run l4 missions."
"what is this?goons posting and then having the rest of them support. any goon post should be automatically ignored by the rest of the eve community no matter what it is.remember, they play the game only to ruin it for the rest of the eve community, so obviously anything they say is only meant to ruin it for the rest."
"this... 0.0 is taken, low sec is pirate controlled you can't jump a bs in a system without being ganked on the gate, scanned out or ganked on the next gate."
"100% support.to address a few concerns:1. insider trading - this is easily policed by an efficient market. as long as you can easily access trade history on any corp, you're in good shape. by watching trading volumes and investigating any spikes in activity, you actually encourage the dissemination of information. volume spikes = interest = possibilities .... e.g. small corps trading volume spikes, people investigate, learn rumors of admittance to large powerful alliance, enemies begin to interfere with possible alliance while shorting shares. 2. please don't limit access to the capital market! -- let any corp. sell shares. their value nav should reflect their lack of history, or small size, etc. but permit the \"penny stock\" market to develop as well, as its high risk/reward, adn would permit high rep players starting new corps. to raise capital quickly.3. fraud / scams - ultimately should be buyer beware. however, to encourage reliance on markets there should be some form of transparency via create-on-demand report function so that the market can \"look at the books\" of the corp. at any time. as a second line of defense, there should be options for ceos to commit to certain things that cannot be changed later - e.g. \"6 month commitment to 1% dividend\" or \"3 month commitment to no sales of assets\" or \"6 month commitment to no share dilution\" or \"6 month commitment to no sale of debt\", or \"6 month commitment to no acquisitions of assets in excess of 20% present corp. value\", etc.a robust public share market would add a substantial mini-game to eve .... corporate raiding, take-overs, mergers. it would add financial markets professions ... e.g. ratings companies, financial commentors, consulting firms. and it would be a new way to invest your isk for profit and to raise isk if your a corp. with the rep. and means to do so."
"fully supported.i have always wanted and done a little in stock purchases and ipo's, but i would prefer some more solid in-game tools to support it before spending much isk on it."
"sounds like a fine idea. of course it would be a cold day in hell before i'd release any shares in a corp i was running but pvp corps are different."
"i propose the introduction of slash commands in eve. these wont be a major change in gameplay but just make it a bit easier for us to play the game. instead of opening your people and places window, searching for a solar system and rightclicking the result to set your auto pilot, you could simply type /destination jita in a chat window.examples:starting a conversation with another player:/convo [player name]opening the market details of a specific item:/market [item name]set your auto pilot destination:/destination [solar system name]display the information window of anything in eve items/players/solar systems/etc:/info [name]i'm sure we can come up with more slash commands. this is not any sort of revolutionary idea, just a small improvement that i think will make eve a lot easier to use for experienced players."
"naturally i support this.. ;"
"this would be awesome. one amendment though - /market name should perform a search on name and only display it if there's exactly one match. also, /market quickbar and /market browse should be special commands, to jump to the respective windowsi doubt many would use them, but they don't interfere with the search, so we might as well give the option."
"i wholeheartedly support this."
"i completely support this."
"an excellent idea as long as it is tightly controlled...i don't think we need an emote-happy eve universe...but a few quick commands would be nice...i support this idea."
"well we already have /me which is enough for emotes. these commands are intended to be functional rather than emotes."
"for practical stuff like you write i think this is a great idea. it would make life a lot easier for me too, and i'm not an \"experienced player\" :starting convos and looking up market details would be very nice."
"brilliant. real men don't click! now propose a native linux client /o\"
"+ /contract name =]"
"/support"
"yes!"
"probably best not....people would just whine about it and get it nerfed..."
"like it. not sure if there is room for exploiting this by 3rd party programs thought. might make macroing easier depending on the provided functions.and imo if the attribute is not specific enough, just open those search windows that you get when auto-linking and such."
"not a damn reason this shouldn't be implemented."
"good idea :we do? well, learn something new everyday!!!take care,arithron"
"i suppose it's a bit quicker than...1 type the name of the item/person/destination2 highlight the word3 right click, and select auto link4 navigate the menu to select exactly what you meant to say5 right click the newly made link, to set destination or show info or whatever.but i'd imagine it would still do the same \"choose what you mean\" menu just to make sure."
"i think a gm already said somewhere dunno were it was a while ago, that they cant implement slash commands because the chat interface is not connected to the game thing, decision running stuff, sorry i cant remember how he called it, and it was like this to prevent abusing/cheating/hacking. natural i support such an idea, wold be interesting, but a bit useless in lag fests."
"hate to say but this is exactly correct. the chat is just an irc network run by the eve servers. that is why you can notice the chat time and the game times will be different."
"thankyou everyone for the positive feedback. is there anything anyone would add or change? i think more feedback and discussino would be helpful before poking a csm to add it to the agenda for the next meeting."
"i only see one mistake, and that's that you want a minus, not a plus, here:i also have two suggestions. one, all these new rigs should try to emphasize use of the \"crap\" salvage components as much as is practical. we don't want more of them that use up melted cap consoles and alloyed trit bars, give us some with charred micros and contaminated lorentz. two, for the rigs that do absolute things-100% cap need for warp, +2 jump harmonics, etc., make sure the t2 versions still exist - they should use significantly less calibration than the t1, or give bonuses to other things as wellcovert jump bridge fuel use, etc.. but eliminating t2 is lame, so give them a reason to exist when you can't just increase the bonus 5%. other than that, i like it quite a lot. get poking!"
"yeah, i'd like to see more variety in rigs. or at least, more point to fitting a specialised one over a vanilla rig.part of the problem i think, is that you can't change rigs without blowing them up. therefore, if you want to change to a different type of setup on the same ship, you have to stick to the same rigs. so people tend to stick to the generic ones that help all setups. but, if like you said, a more specialised rig gave a significant advantage over a generic one, then it would be worth fitting.the other thing i think that maybe needs to be addressed is where the penalties lay. some of them are ok, like more grid use for weapon rigs, that makes sense, and you have to fiddle with your setup to make sure the guns fit if you use them. but stuff like polycarbs, affecting your armour? oh noes my armour! on my lse-tanked ship! whatever will i do??!! maybe something more relevant should be penalised, such as agility, or increased mwd cap use, something like that, that would actually hurt the nano-setup, and maybe make the pilot think twice before automatically polycarbing everything.p.s. the optimal range rig stacking bug needs to be fixed already."
"great ideas."
"i agree. rigs could be a lot more specialized. i'd like to see them add things to your ship you generally can't get via modules, right now they're just extra module slots.. especially with the ccc ones and stuff."
"awesome"
"support."
"/signed"
"absolutley yes"
"i was thinking about this some more. what is so special about the speed tank that it needs to get singled out as some bastard stepchild.think about this: what if turning on your armour repairer or hardener made your lasers go dead? is that a stupid idea? it's as bad as this one. speed is just another way of mitigating or avoiding damage, like a conventional tank. sure it has some secondary advantages such as staying at the range you want, or being able to disengage from a bad fight. but your battleship has plenty of ways to do that too; like de-aggroing and docking/jumping through a gate, getting rr help etc."
"interestingly enough, it does if you can't sustain your capacitor v0v"
"what's special about it is you can't beat it by pressing f1-f8 and singing lolololol the way every carebear fw achura whiner wants to. that's why it needed nerfing, honestly.edit: i'm not bitter about this, honestly."
"looks like a good solution to me, or at least better than ccp's solution.elegant way of making the change too, would require minimal time. something that should be looked into."
"sounds very good. would not totally break speed and change about a hundred other game mechanics."
"i might be a new character, but this is a good idea."
"i like this idea"
"all truth has been spoken by the op. this is simple. elegant. effective. most everyone can live with it. it won't destroy the game. ccp will never listen and ram-rod full-steam ahead into nerf-oblivion. all checked.therefore this gets my seal of approval!check."
"/+1not really an mwd user here, but even i don't agree with their complete oblirteration by ccp's ideas.not just for the ab boost i support this."
"once again sarmaul comes through.as a vaga pilot i totally support this. god forbid a fight should require more thought than \"orbit\" f1,f2 f3 etc."
"/againstthis still kills most of the other hacs"
"wow something that actually makes sense.."
"yes"
"eugh"
"fixed your post."
"it of course needs more thought and perhaps some tinkering but i agree with the overall concept. supported!"
"i like it. the only thing that comes to mind is maybe some mitigation of the fitting on ab's/mwd's. if you use the mwd to close and still want/need an ab for effective fighting, the 25% \"where'd my cap go\" from the mwd along with the fitting requirements of a decent ab are going to be a bit steep.remove the 25% capacitor nerf?\"adjust\" the fitting requirements of mwd's and ab's maybe they give a sympathetic fitting reduction to each other when fitted to the same ship? but obviously cannot be used at the same time*scripting a single module may be a better/more elegant solution though. ab/mwd script or something."
"marvelous.as was pointed out to me rather well though, fitting two speed modules like that will be hard on most ships, and make for huge trouble with interceptors. thus, it might be better to keep the cap penalty and a high energy cost, and not make abs stack, instead making the microwarp simply less powerful than it is now? 200-250% speed increase, perhaps?"
"awesome idea, way way better than ccp's idea. change a few mods instead of all the ones they are doing. less coding and would be altogether better"
"/signed."
"seems much more reasonable and a better compromise over the current sisi changes."
"i approve as well, a nicely thought out change."
"very good idea"
"only if the map also if severely restricted. why should someone be able to spot me a world away on the map, come gunning for me and i not even see him when he's right next to me by comparison?if short range sensors go, long range sensors should follow."
"i move to close this tread this debate has been going on for so long that i, for one, am tired of it i mean this is more controversial than abortion in the us!?!?!!111!"
"/not signed"
"my heart says no but my hips cry proceed"
"while i agree with the problem, i think the remedy is the wrong one. there are several reasons:1. 0.0 attractivenessincome in 0.0 moon mining excluded is not much higher if at all than l4 mission running in high-sec when you take everything into account. if you remove local, what you'll probably be doing is increasing the loss rate for people ratting in 0.0. this means that it'll be even less profitable, and you'll see even more 0.0 players earn their money in high-sec. this is not desirable.2. who benefits from local?it is true that the ratter including the cloaking macro-raven benefits from local, but so does the hunter. i've been on roaming gangs in 0.0 where we've run through 20 systems without seeing anyone. imagine if instead of local you'd now have to scan every single system meticulously. i'm not at all sure the ratters are the ones benefiting most from local....3. scanning mechanics for prey and hunterwe all need to make money, and those who rat for it knows how boring it is. imagine that you're ratting for a day to make a couple 100m isk, and you have to press 'scan' every 5 seconds. doing l4's in empire looks pretty good compared to that, ehh! for the hunter it is much easier as he only have to do it maybe 3-4 times per system, then move on. imbalanced...so, what is the real problem?the problem is not that the infamous cloaking raven can see that you're in local! the problem is that he can easily escape from you when he knows that! he can either cloak or logoffski, which'll effectively protect him from the hunters.thus i think the solution to the cloaking raven is not a local nerf, but a combination of these note that this might actually make it too easy to kill a ratter.... testing required:a. cloaks require somewhat bulky fuel. ships specifically designed for cloaking have the fuel need reduced. covert ops cloaks doesn't require fuel.b. cloaking activates the aggression timer cov-ops cloak excluded.c. npc killing activates a reduced aggression timer 5 minutes.d. aggression timers carry over through session changes.e. reduction of l4 high-sec mission pay not removal to low-sec."
"because you've never actually had to make money in 0.0.but that's beside the point. from an immersion perspective, you can move over a gigaton of metal over 4 light years in under 10 seconds, and that's not immersion-breaking? you can move around a solar system faster than the speed of light, and that's not immersion-breaking? information can get from one side of the galaxy to the other which would ordinarily take milennia to get there and that's not immersion-breaking?but these gates announcing to all and sundry that \"sup guys, i just received a couple of hundred megatons of metal from poitot\"? now that's immersion-breaking.you have a mighty funny understanding of immersion."
"please remove local. bacon will be obsolete. it will force people to use directional scan."
"yes, if they're going to mail you notice of insurance expiry, the least they can do is mail it when said insurance expires. if that's too much checking, have them go out over downtime - \"your insurance will expire at 3 pm today\". and to the two above me, if you want to support, check the support box when typing your post."
"i agree. i've only noticed i get the expired insurence mail when i insure another ship, or as you say, open the insurence tab.we should get the notification at the moment the insurence expires, or as someone else mentioned. within the 24hrs period of it expiring by sending the mail out at dt."
"/+1"
"yoar"
"yarp"
"i guess putting support in the original post doesn't count. obviously i like this."
"what i mean by this simply is if you have 8 guns, on a battleship for instance, allow people to drag and drop them onto the same turret button so that by pressing that button all 8 guns fire.i'm of the opinion that you could then code it so that rather than 8 guns doing 100 damage each and the server mechanics of that you have 1 gun doing 800 damage.hopefully this will reduce lag.sometimes you don't want to do volly damage i realize so ofc this would have to be optional."
"and if one gun wrecks, all wreck?for example..."
"how about what i say in post #53, about t1 ships only getting a bonus ? any comments on that ?"
"i approve this idea!at the moment, you only get the \"ship is out of control\" and plenty of dead modules, in those brief half-seconds before lag catches up and you end up in a pod.yaay's ideas make titan combat more tactically viable. at the moment, if a dd insta-kills someone, they'll jumpclone back to the nearest station and potentially be back in the fight in 30 seconds. with yaay's ideas, you'd be crippling ships for at least 30 seconds, and giving your own friendly fleet more to shoot at c'mon, who else is jealous that their titan pilots account for most kills on your kb?. combat is prolonged, and it gives the victims of the dd at least some chance to survive.yay, would your idea consider scripts? one script to do as you describe, and another to put the full 71k damage or even more, should it be required at a single target."
"at a single locked target i think a script for damage could be viable, i would say 250k damage with a rof every hour if it were focused. a thanatos with 75% resist and 180k armor would take what, 7 to 8 of these before dieing full shields to pod?"
"i agree ccp should look into an idea like this.titans should be able to do some pretty neat things in return for the colossal investment placed in them not only in the ship itself, but the blueprints, skills, materials and pos-infrastructre needed, but simply being able to deploy a chuck norris smartbomb is not that smart.....yaay's ideas all sound feasible and preferable.also, an additional brainfart here - does anyone have any thoughts on how to incentivise i may just have invented a word there titans to be fitted with their class of weaponry? all the titans have some sort of bonuses towards their relevant xl turrets/launchers and yet there is no situation i can envisage where you would actually want to fit them or use on a titan in preference to a sieged dread, at least....."
"titans need two nerfs to fix them.1: no doomday ablity in cyno jammed system / cyno jammers grid. grid would be better.2: 1 doomday per hours per grid."
"having fought with and against the largest collections of active titans in eve since they were introduced into the game i'm convinced that when either side is sufficiently competent they make bugger all difference.the last titan nerfs were enough imo. they removed their previous invincibility and forced them to put themselves in danger to dd. all good.the only thing that i'd say needs to be nerfed with regard to titans is their alignment time. base is very high, however, as most of us know, with the right mods you can reduce it to the extent that you can warp in, dd, then warp out just as it goes off. this is, in my eyes, the only unbalanced aspect of titans left. [actually, i tell a lie, the amount of lag generated by firing a dd and generating so many wrecks/mails simultaneously really needs to be sorted out.]dd's are easy to buffer tank with regular fleet fittings, easy to avoid, easy to see coming; with the addition of hics they are also in serious danger of dying every time they're wielded against a significant foe.in my experience they're actually pretty balanced and don't make much difference in day to day combat even when they're in system [though naturally this also has something to do with the fear many titan pilots suffer from, to the extent that you never even see half the titans in eve going anywhere near a fight]. furthermore, the combination of dd's and cyno jammers that people endlessly whine about is really a non-issue, they change little unless you're trying to use a woefully inadequate force against umpteen titans and support and have a brain-dead fc, in which case it's right that you should get annihilated."
"the main problem with doomsdays and their deployment and effectiveness and/or lack there of is lag... if you doomsday someone and those effects take place, with lag, theres no idea telling where you stand, when the effects have really ended.also currently a doomsday is avoidable, see the titan on grid warp out...have a \"titan\" spotter dedicated. however, with lag as it is, by the time you actually see the titan on grid, you've been dead like 15 minutes :solution for titan dd would be to probably extend the time by which it can fire its dd again. giving multiple waves of battleships a chance against multiple titans. 5 titans? bring 7 waves of bs : heeheh"
"i read the topic and thought geese another noob not nowing wat there on about actually read it and though wow best idea thought out for the ddgreat idea luved it ^^"
"role bonus: -99% cpu use for siege module. it'd also give them a good 20,000 more dps tanked, for when they're actually standing and fighting. if you're feeling crazy, you can also let them receive incoming logistics while sieged - it's powerful, but it'll actually let them live against a dread blob."
"sieged titans? it's an idea - but the status quo is currently that you fit smartbombs, and with good reason - hordes of fighters and tacklers swarming you have a good deal to worry about which they would not if the titan did not have smarties fitted - simply allowing a dread siege module to be fitted would a use up a valuable high slot and b not produce any significant damage that the alliance fielding the titan could not provide by fielding an additional two dreads at a fraction of the cost - therefore i'm not entirely convinced allowing titans to siege like a dread would lead to titans being fitted with xl class weaponry.however that's not to say that the notion of a titan-specific siege module like dreads, carriers and rorquals have their own type of siege module is not without merit - perhaps there could be some way to tie a titan-specific siege module in with yaay's original idea?"
"i like your thinking."
"i support this idea"
"remove plain vanilla t1 from loot tables ? yes pleaseremove t1 meta items from loot ? no thanks"
"i support. meta items could be done from special components and bpc drops from rats/invention. cnr shouldnt bring more minerlas than hulk. l4 is now more profitable than most 0.0 region rats."
"agreed. there's absolutely nothing wrong with the way it works now. this is a solution in search of a problem."
"mission loots not 0.0 rats loots."
"proposal: give each ship a hard cap to its maximum speed regardless of what modules or implants may be in play. leave modules and implants as they are.the goal: reduce nanoship speeds so they aren't going into plaid. i won't go into the justification for this. it seems pointless as ccp has determined there is a problem that needs fixing. how the goal is achieved is quite another matter.downside of current ccp ideas for reducing nano speeds: they are too widespread and radical. the ideas would affect ships that under current conditions do not reach speeds considered nano. these ships are using the current rigs and modules for agility and, yes, speed, but not nano speed. millions and billions of isk in modules, rigs and implants will be rendered impotent if all the proposed changes occur.upsides of my proposal:1 nano ship speeds are eliminated.2 modules, rigs and implants are not nerfed. this allows them to remain effective for other purposes such as agility.3 a smaller mix of the afformentioned modules, rigs and implants can be used to achieve the hard cap max speed. this would leave slots available to be used for a greater variety of abilities and thus increase variation within eve.implementation: i would suggest ccp use the chart they've already constructed see the dev blog"
"putting in the thumb for support."
"good concept, but need a better idea than the above. maintenance arrays in player alliance outposts in 0.0 are also subject to these rules? the pirate factions agreed to this? i do appreciate the attempt at in-game rationale, but this just isn't sufficient. the idea itself is pretty solid just can't support it personally."
"not nerfing snake implants down to half-30% is senseless.however, nerfing overdrives one of the poor noob's only sources for speed boost which is a reasonably balanced module is at the same time senseless.all nano structures should either have a massive stacking penalty, or not stack at all. seriously. hydrocarb rigs should be restricted to one for every ship too. you only have one damn ship structure and one damn housing for an engine, and even if your ship is multi-engine, if it didn't affect all engines at once, logically the whole ship would need rebalancing, and we would be talking entirely new levels of customization.still, the basic idea of a hard speed cap has been mentioned, and given a reasonable excuse. and i supported that idea, as i will the fundamental target of this idea.however, i stress that i think a few things have to be toned down and some others left alone still. the proposed changes both in the dev. blog, and by loads of people here on the forums, are way too large and simplistic."
"so would you be opposed to leaving the status quo in place, but having the drones come back under your control when you get back on grid with them? it wouldn't help people who logoffski, but it'd save those of us with bad power grids from having to watch several million of hammerhead iis getting calmly blown up as i slowboat 50 km to try to get them back."
"i'd support that, absolutely. i actually think it's dumb that it doesn't work like that now."
"i think as a compromise, they could just stop rats shooting your drones once the player has e-warped due to disconnect.pvp, you know you probably expect to lose a few drones. and if that is from a server problem, well it doesn't make that much difference.but npc rats killing your drones if you drop connection, and wiping out your profit for the next x amount of spawns? that just feels vindictive."
"i'd go for npcs deaggressing your drones and them auto reconnecting to your ship when you reconnect and warp back in.that seems not sploitable for pvp purposes the drones are still there so players can shoot them while solving the basic problem of losing drones because of stuff outside of your control."
"you're also not commanding your ship to warp out under emergency warp out protocol, but it still happens. if you \"fly away after a fight\" leaving your drones, that's abandonment. however in that case it's an act you have a choice in. in an emergency warp out you don't have a choice.if a ship has it's drones out, it's usually fighting. if a ship can warp away from a fight, why would it perform the logoffski? the emergency warp out doesn't work if the ship is scrambled. or do i have something wrong here?personally, i have what most consider to be a pretty good isp. one of the major cable companies. our service still, occasionally, goes down. many other people do not have as nice a service as i do and i know they suffer from connectivity issues. not much you can do about such things. there are only so many service providers in any one area and all of them go out sometime.while it's not always ccp's fault, we both know that sometimes their servers crash, though less than they used to.the point is, disconnects happen that are real and not just logoffski's. logoffski's are a problem, but i don't see them being exploited by having this feature of drone retrieval implemented.windjammer"
"if this can be implemented in clean fashion, i'm for it."
"it's actually because the tractor beams can only lock onto your particular signature of dust and space ****. they simply slide ineffectually over someone else's wrecks. it's just a matter of physics, i'm afraid."
"it's 0.0, there's no law there, every wreck is my wreck."
"today, 0.0. tomorrow, everywhere.i mean, come on people. if you need to keep the jetcan aggro flag, fine. but, let's at least play tug-o-war with the wrecks! when someone loots the can, shoot them!"
"i'm liking this.i mean technically, wrecks don't belong to the player that blew the ship up anyway - the wreck is the remains of a ship bought and paid for by the unfortunate pilot be he player or npc so even if any claims to \"ownership\" of a wreck should be applied, it should be to the person who paid for the wrecks constituent parts, not the person who destroyed the ship!!supported."
"don't go warping it now. i don't care if there are built in restrictions in regulated space but 0.0, why?"
"dunno why tracktor works on one junk and dont work on another.another idea would be that you could tow other ships to you, considering mass and beam strenght ;]"
"i think you misunderstood the point i was trying to make - i supported the thread because i think any tractor beam should be able to tractor any wreck it's activated on - everything else i said was simply trying perhaps rather clumsily to explain why i think that is the case.::edits:: and kalintos, it'll never happen, but the tractoring ships idea could lead to some hilarity! hotdrop rorquals with capital tractor beams pulling snipe bs out of position anyone? hahaha!"
"."
"let us pull anything, including other people's ships."
"the trouble is that 25 people really shouldn't be threatening a space empire in the first place - the taking of space shouldn't be easy. it shouln't be quick for a small gang, and it shouldn't allow a bunch of nanohacs to run around and have a chance of actually mattering in the grand scheme of things. if you're willing to commit a large number of bses or dreads to the line, then you should be able to do some damage. if not, then you should be harassing, but not on a level where you can do damage to the infrastructure.you really shouldn't tailor nerfs to reducing lag. you're gonna have to end up fighting at a pos at some point - it's unavoidable. by bumping the sov requirements, you avoid the need for a jammer takedown at all - simply conquer and hold one or more of the outpost systems in the constellation for a week, and the jammer becomes just another offline object in space."
"this is why we need territory control to be based on layers. dreads and bs fleets would be needed to dig deep and root out heavy infrastructure like pos. but part of what it means to control territory should also be based on light infrastructure that smaller groups are meant to attack, and that changes hands more fluidly.the current system is entirely binary - you are either fielding dread fleets and sieging pos to impact sovereignty or you aren't impacting it at all. what sovereignty needs is a more gradual progression from minor impact all the way up to the big impact of dreads taking out pos, and the level of defender benefit a territory holder has should be based on how well they are defending their territory, from the minor impact stuff all the way up to pos warfare."
"some pretty terrible ideas and premises there.especially that you're basing proposed changes around server performance......by that logic it would make sense to introduce a system cap of 100 people. which would of course be ridiculed."
"technological limitations can and should be considered when devising a game mechanic. the economist is just wrong."
"then i propose a system cap of 100, sharding of the server and the removal of drones.flippant retort aside, obviously new content should take into account the limitations of the server, however existing content should not be altered solely on that consideration, there needs to also be justification in terms of game mechanics. while there may be some aspects of the game related to sov, pos's etc that could use tweaking, i don't believe the op hit the nail on the head, with his premises, his approach towards them or his proposed changes."
"disagree completely. realism and believability withing the context of the eve universe should be much more important. letting game design be dictated by technical limitations leads to artificial game mechanics."
"the reinforcement timer is an artificial game mechanic, and far more unbelievable within the context ot the eve universe than anything in the op."
"first i am glad you identified a reasonable number. second, thats your opinion, and again, threatening isn't the right word as i keep saying. affecting and taking part is the concept. you are only threatening the space when the defender fails to show up, or is too busy, or can't actually maintain the space. neither should the defending of space be easy and you shouldnt expect lag/tedium to be on the defenders side. i thought some of your collegues were suggestion that roaming gangs already have a part in the grand scheme of things. and if you are incaping and disrupting station services and moon/research/industrial operations by reinforcing towers, you harrassing, not destroying or damaging anything. if they are such small gangs, then they really shouldn't be a problem, then would they? i am sorry but that statement is inexcusable and totally ridiculous. everything should be done to maximize gameplay and to ensure the integrety of the game for all players and not allow game mechanics that favor a few to dictate the quality of the eve cluster for everyone else. current sov mechanics are in direct conflict with the ability of the cluster to handle the demands of players which are just following the rules given. this isn't a nerf, this is an adjustment to let people actually play the game in more conditions than are currently availible."
"true, but a bad analogy. this was implemented due to a real-world limitation, not a technical one. also, strontium does exist in the eve universe. this doesn't mean i think reinforcing is the best way to conquer the time-zone difference, rather i'm simply saying it is an acceptable compromise until a better system is found. define better: i would only support a new mechanic if it moved further away from artificial on the in-game realism scale, which i have not seen in any propoasal that is based upon server, processing, or bandwidth limitations.in that category, this proposal is pretty good. part 3 though - for what in-game reason must a cyno jammer be located so far from the pos?"
"let them support posts rake up, i say !"
"if you don't like being war decced, you can always join a corp that can't be wardeced. caldari provisions springs to mind."
"seeing if i understand this:so basically watered down, attacking the arrays effectively hurts the recharge rate of the pos. it is in the pos best interest to keep these other structures alive by sacrificing shield recharge because when those structures go down, the pos is even further gimped.once all the outer structures are incapacitated, the pos can focus all of it's shield recharge on itself but has severely limited capabilities. all in all, this makes small 'special forces' groups tactically viable, but still allows a strong fleet to defend the pos at the main control tower.now giving my support as it allows small gangs to beat the recharge rate and reinforce a tower given enough time it should take a long time to kill a pos this way - a realistic alternative to a bs fleet pounding the shields as is currently the only option but should still be a viable option.edit: removed support after further discussion and new problems."
"it may be, but imo anything else so far presented is too artificial. pos count is a concrete, simple system of determining power and ownership. this new pos reinforcing system makes pos count more legitimate as a determining factor by adding multiple tactics of military pos removal which:1 makes it possible for more groups to counter poses that claim sovereignty but 2 still allows controlling entities to counter with active defense of the installation."
"as with most sovereignty proposals i've seen, i'm not at all sure that the proposed details are optimal. but i like the thought process here. especially arrays, they do very interesting things."
"good idea. if done right it can't hurt, only help."
"this sounds like it could work.maybe ccp could impliment something that the player gets to decide how much percentage is income from say missions and rats or whatever would go towards a real charities that they pick. charities that are a world organization not something that is only local to one specific country per say. like a cure for cancer or something.but if we are trading in isk and ccp has to pay for that how would that work? the isk could be used to sell gtc but then who from ccp would be online spamming to sell them or whatever??aside from that, whatever effort that is needed to make this happen would be well worth it.could you imagine, as far as i know, nothing like this has ever been done. wouldn't it be great if eve online was the first to do this?in a game where nothing truely matters, now it can."
"couldn't agree more."
"what a stupid proposal! why would you want to penalize people for actually playing the game the way ccp intended it? they are in pc corporations, and they are part of the game.what you really want more war targets and make them easier to spot? come on? get a grip on yourself. eve is mmorpg and people can play how they want to play it, they do not need some turdbrained 15 year olds to tell them how to play this game. no one forces you, please do not force others either."
"3 man minimum and you can still run them solo"
"1 - ccp has stated they will not force people out of npc corps deal with iti take it that 10 is the magic number at which you feel it's viable to wardec that corporation. it takes 3 maybe 4 trial accounts to fill that roster 3 + 1 alt on the main account works best... so they can hop to another during wardecs by leaving an alt as ceoccp is not going to force a minimum size on corps, or force players out of the npc corps... they want to cater to the most playstyles they can keeps them in business"
"you read it right. upon removing confirmed macro accounts, refund sec status lost by players that suicide-gank and report themgive us incentive to help boot macros out of the game by making it fun, if not profitable"
"upon activation of a mining module, at irregular periods 5-15 minutes send the mining client a simple mathematical or symbolic question that a 5th grader could complete but no macro program could answer correctly assuming nothing is done to increase the interactivity of mining itself.anything irregular to disrupt the operation of macro programs.after two or three failures caused by afk or macro mining, the pilot becomes a global criminal and can be attacked by pilots."
"errr, no. if someone wants to semi afk mine that's his choice, no need to make them global criminal for it...."
"supported as a test on sisi"
"yes, it's never ever benefited me, ever... i like one way streets, they're easier to walk against. you know it's a fun game when people hide behind alts on this forum."
"cornfield this thread."
"here's an idea i've been throwing around a bit lately, and thought i'd bring it up in here, since it's not really a 'traditional' concept:any changes made to the game, be it game mechanics changes, additions, subtractions, whatever, should be explained away through storytelling, existing story and/or role-play advancement, etc. for example, the current issue of the nano-nerf. whatever the outcome, there should be some kind of reporting done by scope to explain what happened, such as \"manufacturing corporations are finding it exceedingly costly to continue to make these components and blah blah blah\" rather than seeing some news on the log in page pointing to the forums or whatever. you get the idea.my reasoning behind this is that when i log in and play, no matter what i'm doing in-game, i'm in the game. i'm in eve, and i want to stay in game the entire time i'm playing... i don't want to be sucked back into reality, this is my escape from reality.let's discuss."
"seeing how the drone regions panned out, hell no!for renaming systems check out this thread name systems corporate tool"
"i like the idea, but the devil is really in the details on this one. you want the names to be inoffensive, non-abusive, pronounceable, relatively static, and player-controlled. that is not a trivial combination. i'll support this in principle, to see if anyone can come up with an actual system, but frankly it probably can't be made to work usefully."
"most of the complaints stem from the idea that the pilgrim has to go into web range to attack.following the speed nerf, web range is no longer death. any cruiser sized vessel can out-track battleship turrets and many cruiser turrets on sisi, with moderate ease. a boat that can approach using a covert ops cloak can use an afterburner, which makes that damage avoidance even better. a boat that can tracking disrupt, can do that even better. once getting under your opponents tracking, your only threats are neuts, missiles, and drones. the pilgrim has never been good at attacking missile boats, and has a cap warfare advantage so being neuted is less of a problem hint, if you think you are going to face heavy neuts, and you have a massive nos bonus, then nos work almost as good as pre-nos-nerf. if it can tank 5 unbonused drones long enough to kill 1-3 of them , with its 5 lowslots, it can be an effective solo prowler again.my advice is, give it some minor hp boosts as its the \"tankiest\" recon and leave as it is. post-patch it will be relatively boosted in quite a significant way."
"trust me, from considerable sisi testing, tracking disruptors are not debatable in their use - they are in fact, freaking nice, especially within web range. i also think \"limited\" damage is a bit rich. that's rubbish - it has the same bonus and drone damage as both its t1 combat-cruiser ancestor and the curse, its combat recon counterpart. neither the falcon, arazu or rapier gets that damage. i quite agree on the loss of armor, which makes no sense, and i'm not saying the pilgrim will be balanced, post patch, but i think it will get a relative boost from the speed changes, and thus boosting it further is stupid until we see how useful it is on tq afterwards.i re-read your op, and i like the idea that force recons should cater towards the sneaky gameplay, and i like the fact that the speed nerf means we can get towards that again, despite having to give up my nano ships. hopefully that plus blackops boost will be very positive as a change for \"sneaky guerilla\" warfare as opposed to \"speedy guerilla\".i dont think that taking away the other force recons range bonus would make them better - it would be a huge kick in the teeth. the pilgrim makes sense as a close range boat, the others do not. they'renot \"bastard children\" - they nice ships that just dont work as well speedy, so are not popular today. the pilgrim seems ready-made for these changes, and if its still inferior, then it needs hp/tank buffs, not other changes."
"that analogy is complete fail. think for a second. how do you determine if a learning skill is worth training? well, if you plan to play eve indefinitely, then all of them are worth training to level 5 period. if you only plan to play eve for a month or so and then quit, then they're not worth it at all. so what learning skills end up doing is making people decide how long they want to play the game from the very beginning! before they've even gotten a chance to see if they like it! and they certainly won't be liking it much after spending so long training learning skills how does forcing people into a decision like that helpful? it just adds stress which is what people play games to avoid."
"fail. just...fail.you're not specializing by choosing which learning skills to get. you're gimping yourself by not getting them all. specializing implies that you're choosing between things that are mutually exclusive. that is not the case with learning skills. consider one person who goes for learning skills and another who goes for gunnery skills. the one that gets their learning skills up will be able to go for gunnery skills after finishing, and will eventually end up with more gunnery skills than the person who neglected learning. on top of that, the person who neglected learning will never be able to catch up. how is that specialization? the person who went for learning ended up getting more of everything! the fact is that if you plan to play for long enough, all the learning skills are worth getting. there are no cons to getting learning skills from the perspective of someone who wants to get maximum skill points. the cons for learning skills to the average player, however, are that it's boring to train them, and you have to play the game for a really long time before they pay off. so you make a game where the best decision is to do nothing for the first few months...what kind of game is that?! it's flat-out stupid to make a game, and then encourage players to not play the game!"
"see that's the fallacy. you do have to do them. you have to choose between having fun, and having a good character. if i want to play eve for a while and have a good character, i should train all my learning skills to level 5 from the start. if i want to have fun, i should train up my ship and gunnery skills so i can go blow up some pirates. you're telling new players that if they want to have fun, they should quit eve fairly soon because they'll end up being left in the dust because they didn't train learning."
"but they're not like any other skill training in eve. that's why there's so much controversy. train gunnery, and you have an advantage. train learning, and you have a learning and gunnery advantage! the only time learning isn't the best decision is when you plan to quit soon and want to get one particular skill or set of skills by a certain date. that means that in order to decide whether learning skills are a good idea, you have to decide when you're going to quit eve! why is forcing people to set their quitting date a good thing? what does it add to the game? for someone who wants to decide whether they like eve, it just discourages them and makes them likely to give up. they can train some combat skills and have fun, but they end up being penalized for it since they didn't spend that time training learning skills. why are you penalizing new players for trying the game out?"
"edited quote to save space, sorryi appoligize for the misquote. i never actually knew where it came from, only that many have said it when making statements about the first amendment. so i jumped to the conclusion that it was an american saying.as for the rest, yes he is asking for special treatment. this is the internet and a video game as close to being a public forum as one can get only teathered by the rules set forth by ccp. you are going to get jerks and idiots, alot of them joke around with thier friends and such using terms that someone else may find offensive. to ask them to stop simply because you are offended is asking for special treatment. in an example if i find the color blue offensive, does it mean that i have the right to demand no one be allowed to wear blue when around me? no, i simply must learn to live with it, or avoid it. the responsibility falls on me, not the rest of the world. by asking the rest of the world to conform to my views, i am indeed asking for special treatment. in this case it is similiar. his views and opinions differ from others, so he is asking the others to conform to his opinions or views. even more so to simply not be allowed to express any opinions or views that may clash with his. that in my opinion is asking for special treatment.i have learned long ago that it is not possible to change the opinions or ideals of others. that it is something they must do for themselves. if i do not wish to hear them, then it is my responsibility to ensure i do not. this is what it all boils down to, responsibility for yourself. rather than accept it, people try to place it on others. people like that have the mindset of \"if i do not wish to hear you then i will stand here and not allow you to speak, thereby making you responsible for what i hear\".also i would like to take this oppertunity to point out that by stating that he hates bigots, by deffinition makes him what he claims to hate. not exactly ironic, but that is the only word that comes to mind at 2am.*edited* realised i logged in the wrong character, sorry."
"i'm confused. jade is being criticized for advancing his agenda shock! horror! surprise!, yet *two* goon csms aren't being criticized for not aggressively advancing their agendas. 'squeaky wheel gets the oil' etc.isn't the job of the csm to advocate their position? maybe the posters in this thread should be demanding the csms who represent their positions to push for *their* agendas?i guess you could keep deriding people who are obviously dedicated to seeing their vision realized instead of fighting for your positions, then whine after it's too late to block changes you don't like --- like you're doing now."
"you're missing a key point. in some of these issues, the status quo is the desired outcome by some delegates the opinion that nothing needs to be changed in that particular area, and arguing against new ideas that they disagree with is fighting for your position.also are we going to see other 0.0 proposals from more delegates?"
"if you have in mind an idea you like, just post it in the assembly hall on a non-goonswarm alt. jade will make sure it gets on the agenda."
"time to make a posting alt. windpipejammer?"
"please go to low or null sec, i know by telling you this i will be hurting my chances of finding a roid in the future but please, adventure to low sec and let the high sec roids time to spawn /me gestures to have thread closed"
"against"
"against"
"againsttt"
"against"
"against"
"against.speed wasn't broken, nano gangs were overpowered. so ccp nerfs the speed of every ship in the game, while nerfing webs and entire race's of weapon classes? get real, and hire some real devs."
"against"
"against.ccp displaying their massive lack of insight into their own game again. they should have fired the guy proposing these changes already."
"against!i payed 3.0 bil to snake set.will ccp give me that iskies back ?or i will forget 3.0 b isk which i gave?second same coz first i forgot to check the box."
"signed!"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"/signed"
"edit: i forgot the subject -.-mmm... i don't know if this is the correct place, but, i would like to give an opinion:...remote clone jump destructioooooooooon pleeeeease seriously, think about it, it make sense: you are able to speak with your agents when you are far away from them, for example when you ask for a mission, then you move away from that station and try to accept it, the agent will say \"awsome, come to me and blablabla\".and by the way, we got spaceships, and we don't got a phone? *riiing*-hello?-hi destroy my clone i don't need it anymoremore seriously you could access at your data via... web? or something and manage your account, so you can even destroy your clone if you wish.a very long post for such a simple thing, just to try and give it a logical explanation :p for the backstory, or rpg or call it as you wish, you got it ^^"
"remote destruction of ones own jump clones sure would be nice.i cant think of any rp conflicts or potential exploits of it, that would make such a change a negative.i guess a thumbs up from me."
"i have actually wished to be able to do this for some time now. instead of the flying across new eden to be rid of a clone now useless."
"i read the tl;dr version, and it sounds great, except that i agree with herschel-attackers should have the options to hire mercs as otherwise they will just go to the forums. if you're going to fix half the deal with mercs, fix the whole thing."
"i fully support this, exept the limitations, both sides should be able to have fun and recruit mercenaries and let it escalate ^^"
"actually, it can be quite a problem: corp a declares war on corp bcorp b hires mercenary corp cnow, a is fighting both b and c in the same war. if a wants to even the score by hiring mercs as well - corp d - the mercs will have to declare war on both corps b and c if they want to be able to shoot both parties shooting at their client. this can get costly, especially if you're dealing with alliances.i guess i still prefer limiting merc hiring to the aggressed because i see it as a way for a corp that cant fight their own wars to even the scales. an even balance means the success of the war will come down to player skill, rather than who can hire the most mercenaries."
"as i said, you're describing the status quo. it's not a real limitation. for that matter, just have corp d dec corp b, and presume that they'll extend c's contract to cover d. as for wars coming down to who can hire the most mercenaries, you've got a solution hunting for a problem. remember the old clausewitzian dictum - war is the continuation of politics by other means. you don't fight wars for the sake of fighting wars, you fight them to achieve aims. so, for example, when bloodmoney decced a small corp last fall and they hired a merc force with a significantly bigger active strength than we had, we didn't go out to one-up them, and we sure as hell didn't pool our assets and get mc on the line. we weren't fighting to win, we were fighting to make a profit. hiring mercs to beat back theirs is viscerally satisfying, but it's lethal to the bottom line. if a war is really snowballing that badly, there's probably a reason for it, and your interface should not stand in the way."
"nice idea, too complex i think to be implimented but good luck!"
"these ideas are bad. eve is supposed to be a sandbox game, but these ideas essentially say that \"you can't build the sandcastle that high, as it violates sandcastle construction rule 35f\". if we start making these rules and mechanics, eve will eventually turn into something else. lets keep the sandbox a sandbox."
"what's complex about it? you hire a bounty hunter, they go out and kill the target and get payed based on how much of a loss they inflict. that's pretty much all there is to it. all the other stuff is just there to automate things and make sure that's what happens."
"this is what i've been waiting 5 years for, ever since the first day the servers went live when i signed up.bring it."
"i see some obstacles to making the bounty-hunter payment completely automated. if your bounty hunter blows up the target's ship and destroys a bunch of faction/officer modules, how would the system appraise those? one opposition was that the proposed system discourages sandboxing, so to that effect i'd suggest more options*the option to set a flat reward for each ship class destroyed*the option to set a percentage reward for net losses inflicted to the target*the option to set a cap on the possible rewards*the option to contract a bounty hunter even if you don't have kill rights***the contract info should show whether the target is expected to be in 0.0 sec, low-sec, or empire"
"estimating the approximate isk value of the damage sustained by the target is probably the most complex part of the bounty hunter idea. i'm sure ccp can think of a good way to do this though.as for setting a contract when you dont have kill rights, this could be a problem, unless the contract then does not yield a derived kill right. this is necessary because we'd be creating kill rights out of thin air otherwise. a bounty contract without kill right will be a lot harder to fulfill by a bounty hunter though."
"i think it would be fun if you could issue 'non-sanctioned' or 'black market' bounty contracts that do not grant kill rights and that do not require kill rights to create.i'm talking about putting a hit out on somebody.the formula for deriving the payout received would include not only he approximate isk value of the damage sustained by the target, but also the approximate isk value of the damage sustained by the assassin in accomplishing the kill where 'damage' includes some monetary value attached to sec status loss.this is basically a game mechanic for hiring people to perform suicide assassinations or at least assassinations that will result in a large sec status loss and guaranteeing their compensation if they succeed."
"toman,watch out for the issue post re: pirates, hitpersons and other illegal activities.the purpose of this particular thread bh and mercs is to add depth to legal concord-sanctioned activities. take care,arithron"
"ya. that's the idea. you don't need kill rights for the bounty hunter to be able to do their job, especially if the target is in low-sec or 0.0 sec, but they'd need to see that on the contract. it's just a pro-sandboxing thing."
"cant be arsed to read the 6 page file as its not worth it to be that detailed. but its been pretty clear for a looong time that bounty hunting needs work and something similar to what you outlined has been suggested many times.merc corps work pretty good as it is."
"it's about time all noob pvpers goes of of this game and the ones with balls is allowed back who actually dear too pick a fight and stay in the fight instead of running around like a chicken . take the speed **** away and all you \"pvpers\" who don't like it buhu get back into highsec then and do your lvl 4 misson's :p.."
"support"
"finally!"
"yay!"
"support"
"support"
"supportchange is the only consistent.eve was always evolving, is still evolving and hopefully will keep evolving."
"glad to see that ccp still don't know what a blob is ;."
"as in every single goon with no exception shares this same opinion of game breaking? seriously, link proof. i'd love to see it. meanwhile read the latest eon - we got a feature! isn't that cool?"
"trolling much?but in all seriousness, maybe remove all high quality above 0 mission givers from high sec, through them in lowsec, -shrug- maybe buff station guns to further discourage station camping in low-sec, and make there be more mission givers in 0.0, it would be awesome if alliances could put mission givers in their stations ^_^ like tvn"
"aweful punctuation, brillient idea."
"i do think that the mission system needs to be re-balanced. i don't think this is the correct way to go about it.i think it's important that it should still be possible to access level 4 missions in hi-sec, however the rewards loot and salvage should be reduced.idealy, i would like to see mission rewards scaled down with the popularity of an agent more popular, less reward. this has the added bonus of boosting the less popular mining type missions, and dealing with the overcrowded mission hubs."
"signed, but put some non high ql level 4 missions in low-sec as well."
"better idea: make all 0.0 into empire 0.5-07, make all low-sec into empire 0.8-0.9 and make all empire 1.0.this is about as reasonable as the op's idea.bunch of petty children...."
"so i'm gallente, and i am doing faction missions. frequently i get \"slaves\" as loot off amarr slave trader ships. sadly, if i take them home to my hangar, i will lose faction, as they are considered \"contraband\" in gallente space. that makes sense.but my alternative is to leave them in space, or kill them outright. this is just sad.i'm sure the gallente government doesn't really intend for their contraband rules to cause the death of innocent slaves. but i'm sure i'm not alone in leaving those poor folks to starve out there in the cold expanses of space, locked for the rest of their miserable lives in a cargo container.so give us the ability to un-contraband them, turn them into \"freed slaves\" or something. let them live! i know it's a small thing, and there are probably bigger issues out there, but this keeps bothering me."
"perhaps just make it so they confiscate the slaves without any standing hits or fees?"
"yes! bring back the \"free slave\" option that used to be there.edit/forgot to support."
"/signed"
"only if i get the opition to turn looted homeless, milita, exotic dancers, etc etc into slaves"
"amarrian lp stores, obv."
"also we should have the option of smacking the damsel in distress since she is always getting into trouble."
"has anyone ever seen a player idea really implemented by ccp?"
"oh my god, yes/search \"character name\"/search \"solar system name\"/sea \"corporation name\"/sea \"market item name\"/sea \"market category\"/email \"player name\"/email corp/email alliance/em \"player name\"/autopilot set \"destination\"/ap set \"destination\"/ap route \"safe\"/ap route \"short\"/ap enable|on not sure about that one, might ruffle the superstitious eve players' fears about macroingcould go on forever.edit: just because the client doesn't support it doesn't mean a damn thing about tomorrow. i'd rather view something helpful and awsome like this in the most positive light than just say it can't be done because the current system doesn't allow it."
"eft - ship statistics taking character stats into accountevemon - skill training timer, current item databasestart eve - \"fullscreen\" windowed modejust a couple of examples of improvements that eve itself could have had, but players had to invent on their own.ccp has pretty much given up on making \"improvements\" to their own interface and software overall. they'd rather let other people do it for them.and really... when they do patch something, they have to spend the next few months \"bug hunting\".eve online... a 5 year long beta test."
"oh man thats awesome."
"no. i'm all for making things easier, but this idea will just make ccp put off improving the user interface. with a ui overhaul, there is no need for things like this.at a push, i'd have a 'run' window pop up on a bound button with a couple of drop-down boxes that you can tab between. i.e. bring it up, hit 'm' for the first drop-down to select market, tab, 's' to select search, tab, then start typing.even less work than your slash commands, and far, far neater. slash commands are a very hackish way of doing things."
"i like hugs"
"nice idea!"
"supportin"
"should have been here long time ago."
"can we get a /wrists command? for example,/wrists afkcloakwould automatically generate a post in the assembly hall requesting a nerf to afk cloaking? the /wrists command would really save an effort for a lot of people."
"as long as we don't see /follow any time soon, i like it."
"i like this idea very much. as long as it doesn't create a security problem by introducing vectors a hacker could exploit.best regards,windjammer"
"yeah, convenient ways of accessing something solar system via the p&p window that takes keeping a window open when used often would be a great help, to be sure."
"signed/"
"seriously ccp, why would you rather implement your rediculous changes and subsequently rebalance nearly the entire game tracking, exp velocity, etc, taking a lot more time than you would by little tweaks here and there. time that would be better spent looking at real issues, like sov warfare or... i dunno, lag?"
"+1 for this idea."
"i think this is a viable alternative to revamping the game. specialy since ccp still hasn't repaired the damage to the arazu and lachesis with their last big nerf."
"this seems like a reasonable idea that would be interesting to test out on sisi.i still think the web nerf/scram boost is a nifty idea as well though, and could add more interesting combat mechanics."
"elegant and simple. good alternative to current ccp proposed changes.supported."
"+1 to sarmaul."
"makes sence to shut down weapon systems before turning on your micro warp drive. supported."
"wow, simple and elegant."
"i had to scroll down to find this upppp!"
"supported, the main thing that would need balancing is how much of a boost abs get. if they simply got a 50% boost around the board i'd be happy i think, because then it's still possible to do 1k in a completely tanked out hac, which basically combines normal tanking with somewhat of a speed tank; you've got your normal sig, bs sized turrets/missiles have a hard time tracking/hitting a tanked target orbiting at 1-1.5k, you are just as vulnerable to neuting, and you get that 25% cap that you've been playing without for years now. no you can't make it back to a gate, so it's not for solo, but in actual 30 man nano gangs, it gives hacs some sort of survivability, brings them back to their gank'n'tank roots, while also opening up many new possibilities, for both the nano gang and those killing it."
"it's a lot simpler and easier to assess than ccp's far reaching proposals, whilst there will always be \"issues\" regarding any nerf, this seems to reduce the number of possible gripes, worth a test and i support this alternate solution"
"/signedlogical, straightfoward, and not over the top"
"/signsarmaul for dev!"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"1.0"
"yes!is there any way to see the amount of support given to threads or not?"
"makes sense"
"no. sarm's idea forces as many changes as ccp's. just fiddle with poly's, speed multiplier stacking on implants in conjunction with a couple of mods and a couple of ship slot amounts...then stop there.there's no need to continue to go down ccps route of making huge changes to fix a relatively small problem. the issue is speed multiplied without thought, not the total balance of combat, tanking, range and bonuses. we do just fine excepting certain ships/implants.you're overthinking the issue. stop acting like ccp."
"i for one, give this a \"hell yeah\""
"agreed... needs some tweaking"
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images.this changes two modules and results in a rebalance of speed and striking power while leaving the utility of ships as the currently exist intact.ccp made the tempest heavier than the raven, among other acts of lunacy. how can you possibly compare this idea to the drunk-with-a-weedwhacker approach currently enshrined on sisi?"
"well in my experience eve voice has better quality, better security and better usability than vent or ts. the only downside to me is the ctd vulnerability.if we could click a 'pop-out' button once it was running to seed a separate client, i could see no reason to use a third party app., other than bloody-mindedness... or maybe a logon trap..bring it on.!ill."
":awesome:"
"it's kills me to admit ccp is capable of doing anything right these days, but i've been using eve voice in small gangs since it came out, and it's miles ahead of vent/ts for quality, security and convenience in those circumstances. the only downside is that if you lose connection with the server, you also lose comms. people often have issues setting eve voice up initially, but once it's done, everyone i know has sworn by it."
"i think this risk/reward for hi-sec level 4 missions is out of balance. this has resulted in mission hubs becoming overcrowded and prone to lag, making the eve experience less enjoyable.i don't think the solution suggested by the op is 100% correct, but i agree something needs to be done.i'm more in favour of dynamically scaling down the rewards/loot for missions depending on the popularity of an agent more popular, less reward. this would in effect make agents obey the laws of supply and demand."
"it would also give a huge incentive for mission corps to compete and fight with each other."
"ya would be nice."
"i support this to the fullest extent"
"i totally agree with this. i mean, i have switched out of a warring corp myself due to logistics, or diplomatic reasons regarding the main corp, but using it as war tactics to evade, and counter is an exploit. this is a bit too drastic, seeing as the same mechanic works for corps leaving alainces at war, where they engage a 24 hour end period during which they are still at war. this could be implemented towards characters doing so. it would be, as with corps, a \"surrendering act by the player\""
"agreed. ask to get this bumped to a senior gm as the gm you've been in contact with is incorrect. this is an exploit by the very definition of the word that ccp uses."
"there was a thread on the ideas forum about some lag reduction techniques.if the server is falling south of some metric for responsiveness, it aggregates certain actions. if you have seven turrets for instance, it creates one with averaged stats have to prevent abuses like putting in a small turret to boost tracking speed and uses that average turret instead.on average, it's the same. for big fleet battles, yes it would help a bit maybe.also had the idea of giving server priority to ships based on their speed class. fast ships need to know where they are and need to see what's happening with a lot of granularity. a dread needs to play stacking games with the stront in his cargo bay."
"i would be for this idea if it were a selectable option. if you could right click a turret and select \"synchronise all turrets\" so they all fire at once, that would be benefitial to players. in addition, as mentioned, if the server treats synchronised weapons as one big weapon, it should reduce server load generated by turrets where it's needed most fleet battles.however, you're going to need to provide more info on the mathematics behind combining 8 guns into one for this idea to be viable. remember that each gun has a separate tracking speed, chance to hit, signature resolution etc on top of the random factor in its damage. it's not all about just rate of fire and damage and you can't just take an average of all the stats."
"the best part that i like about this is that it has a sandbox element. a group of pilots can decide to specialize individually, flying t2 ships, or specialize together in t1 ships.i would say if a fleet is comprised of 87.5% t1 ships of one race, the bonus of that race is applied to all ships of the 'dominant race'. this allows one or two oddball ships once fleet size gets large enough 7/8, but any gang below 8 members must be all one race. this cutoff can be tweaked very easily by making the percentage = n-1/n jade?"
"i actually really like this idea in some form. i do agree with the notions proposed by objectors about preserving the sandbox aspect, but it really bugs me that fielding a fleet composed of a single race's ships is not currently recommended.i'm sure something could be worked out that gave just enough of a nudge to get some people to do it. i'd rather see some homogeneous fleets than none at all barring the likes of cva."
"that's the most important point. it must be stressed when it is proposed that it is more of an incentive than an advantage."
"i support the further discussion of this idea by ccp and the csm. it may not end up working out, but it's an intriguing concept that just might add a ton of value to the game.i quoted the above because i support this idea with those caveats in mind."
"now this is much more agreeable to me personally, and it answers many of the objections i'm hearing in this thread."
"subversionso does this mean that jade has agreed to immediately step down and face re-election? that was one of his promises immediately after election, that if ccp approved it at the iceland meeting he would step down as chair to re-election."
"approving ideas- gob"
"well to put it simply, xl weaponry isn't very good. an erebus fitted with 6 blasters and 7 gn magstabs does 2286 dps, which is less than double a gank battleship for 1000x the cost. the only reason anyone uses xl guns in any context is the siege module. thus, you need either the siege module itself or a functional equivalent. now, if you want to have a titan siege module, with no tracking penalty and no bar on logistics, or something of that nature, sure. but if you want them sitting in combat to be the slightest bit worthwhile, you need to give them about a 5x-10x boost to dps somehow. focus-fire ddd with no cooldown, siege mode, something. i picked siege mode because it's easiest to implement and to judge the merits of, but it's not necessarily the best solution."
"remove the gang bonus unless the ship is on grid, but make it a stronger bonus... something like 100% at lvl 5. that's the only change in that manner that needs fixing. titans sieging would be silly, in any manner whether based on current mechanics or other.the scripting focus fire dd v my dd is a unique idea, but the rof for either should not drop down below 30 min as titans would just be way way too powerful at that point."
"a titans main weapon should work against other capitals= give them a dd-turret call it what you likeyou lock your target, fire the turret, and it does its dmg over a time period of ca. 60sec. during this time it does enough dmg to kill the target, lets say a pimped dread calculations up to ccp for this, but because it takes 60sec the target can be repped if the targets-buddies are fast on reaction yea i know lag is a problem. if you are lucky you dont go pop but are heavy damaged.the dd-turret then needs another 60sec to recharge. then you can fire it again.this would have the following effects:1. titan needs to be on grid to work, and will be usefull for a whole battle, not just 30sec of it.2. the opponent needs to stay focused to remote-rep the dd-targets, carriers will be needed for this, maybe even make triage more used, maybe get the triage a bonus against the dd-turret so that the titan will be an anti dread weapon, to a lesser degree anti mom/carrier."
"preferably no damage at all.and wait a second. you think blowing up most support class ships is ok, but disabling modules for 20sec is too much?you'd rather be dead than disabled?"
"no. i can't support this. one simple reason: the devs.if you invite them back into the loot tables, they will only f it up more than they did last time.their own 5+ year track record is against them here. when they f something up, like the \"m3 exploit fix\" they never come back and fix it later; in spite of their promises to the contrary.admittedly, there are some decent ideas in this thread. but, i can't support it because i fear dev ineptitude more than i desire improvement in this area.cheers."
"spoken like someone who has never set foot outside highsec."
"ok"
"not supported,i make the effort to loot/salvage wrecks, and i like the fact that with a bit of extra effort i can provide myself with a small source of minerals and potentially the odd nice module to sell.looters have already taken an unwarrented nerf by ccp clumsily attempting to combat the non-existent 'problem' of people building modules to 'compress' minerals and bring them back to empire, so looting is already harder now than it ever was.i don't agree that the t1 market is diminished by this - the chances of any one npcer happening to loot the exact modules he needs to fit his ship out are negligible at best - he will still be going to market for the ship itself, and for part, if not all of his fittings.also the idea of making \"mining more meaningful\" through the context you describe is laughable until such times as macro miners have been scoured from the game - the sorry state of mining as a profession in eve is down to them, nothing to do with npc loot drops!!!"
"you realise we're talking about mission loot not 0.0 rat loot?"
"the thread title says remove loot from drop tables - it doesn't specify that it is referring only to missions and neither does the op's post.i read that and understood we were talking about all npc drops, regardless of sec status or whether it be belt rat or mission rat.it would make no difference if it had meant mission loot and not belt npc loot, i don't agree with the op about the supposed negative effects of t1 loot drops for the reasons i've described, so i would still not be able to support the thread."
"i think this is a reasonable change.the mission system needs a bit of a overhaul, the risk/reward balance seems a little skewed"
"awsome idea!!no loot, more lp yahoooooo!"
"not supported at all.it is excitement of finding decent loot, knowing that in a pinch i can sell what i find for isk if i need it and giving things to others starting that makes it worthwhile.that is in addition to the loot and salvage adding immensely to the end of the mission and overall pull of isk from it.this suggestion is definitely not worth exploring."
"named loot should stay as it is, t1 stuff that can be produced should not drop from npcs. right now there's really no point to producing most modules because the market is so saturated with them. people loot them, sell them for below manufacturing costs, and then they're re-sold by a more dedicated trader, but still for below manufacturing costs. manufacturers should not be confined to producing ammo and ships - there's simply no profit in manufacturing most t1 modules unless you sell them in the middle of nowhere, and even then, you might get ok money for them but very little volume."
"economies function via supply and demand. currently, there is a good supply of t1 goods from loot drops, demand is stable, so prices stay low. this is an excellent situation for newer players that can not earn vast amounts of isk to buy t2 modules etc, and it also gives them an opportunity to rat and try out combat/ship setups etc, with the added bonus of making some isk. isk, when you start out and many of you seem to have forgotten is hard to come by.i have just completed 3 hrs of missions lvl 3 and purposefully collected all tech 1 loot etc. i reprocessed this, with maximum recovery, and made just over 1 mil isk in minerals. this is hardly going to impact the mineral markets!anyone can mine- lets not kid ourselves that mining is something that is the preserve of a few. someone mining for those 3 hrs can make more isk than i can from reprocessing, with not very high skills. the profits are greater for the miner the better ship s/he uses etc. i suspect that the volume of minerals derived from loot reprocessing is small, especially compared to hulk mining in low sec and 0.0. prices of minerals for miners aren't affected by loot reprocessing- they are affected by large corps and alliances dumping vast quantities of minerals onto markets. in many cases, the prices are manipulated by market racketeers which can greatly affect prices on many popular markets.many high-end minerals megacyte etc have ores limited to low sec or 0.0 only. becuase there is a supply issue, dropping loot will push these prices up higher, making many items much more expensive and thus further out of reach of newer players.as for building and selling t1 items, many already produce and sell below production costs...not due to the loot drops, but due to sheer ignorance of costs the 'my minerals are free' brigade etc.getting rid of loot drops will have wide-reaching negative implications, especially for newer players. the change will benefit a smaller group with more isk- can someone enlighten me how making this group richer benefits the wider eve community?take care,arithron"
"i agree with you that an awful lot of t1 gear is sold at, or below manufacturing cost - especially if you are diligent and include mineral cost, bpc cost, factory slot costs, broker fees and sales taxes in your calculation.however, i still maintain that the principle reason behind this lies largely in two places - firstly macro miners and secondly players legitimately obtaining their resources who consider it \"free\" because they spent no isk on obtaining it confusing \"free\" with \"having no value\"compared to the two things above, i'd be surprised if anyone could demonstrate that t1 loot from drops is having a significant effect on the t1 market - especially if you take a look at a mission site or npc'ed system and see quite how many of them go un-looted anyway."
"hi guys, i originally posted this as a petition and as per the direction of the gm im now putting up a thread here....basically this is the idea linkage - have a read and tell me what you guys think tht;s right devs cheers, lark."
"drone bays in the same style as other pos defences? i like it. i'm not sure whether fighters or more conventional drones are preferable, but something in this vein could work fairly well. and if lag is an issue, give them gargantuan hp/damage bonuses while making the numbers fairly small."
"very nice.as was raised in the previous thread, they shouldn't be able to warp off from the pos though."
"i have as well as others already suggested this in seveal other threads. it just makes sense.if ccp is so determined to do something about the \"speed problem\" then this is really the only way to go about it that doesn't break the game for people other than nanos. unless the devs actually lived up to their names for once, and actually developed something rather than nerfing the hell out of stuff that already exists. new mods to help deal with these fast ships in pvp? hello?!?! any devs not braindead in there?!?put a hard speed cap on ships and let the pilots decide which mods, implants, or skills they are going to use to reach that speed.hell, ccp already uses hard caps. 250km max targeting, anyone.... anyone?!?yeah, ccp is blatantly ignoring this idea in several other places so, i'll give my support to it here so they can ignore this one too."
"you got my support."
"this is the best idea i've seen for this. it forces ccp to finally say \"here! here is exactly what our intended design is, and it can never be broken by anything we add or change in the future. this is how fast these ships are supposed to go in a balanced game.\""
"thank you for your comments. yes, the maintenance arrays in player alliances and pirate factions would be subject to the new condition and did agree to the new ship specification. once the forensic findings were validated to everyones satisfaction. it was seen by all to be an excercise in self interest to agree to something that would help all equally and harm none if all agreed. further, it was agreed that should any ships stray from the new specifications, they would be immediately attacked by the other signatories to the accord, thus enjoying an extremely short life as a ship.the above supplement to the storyline justification as well as the original storyline justification are extremely rough drafts. they were the work of a matter of minutes and as such are not polished or fleshed out in the way i would normally write a story. i only offered the storyline justification as a rudimentary idea, outline if you will, of how such a thing could be made more palatable to the residents of eve. currently, when ccp makes a change to the game they most often just do it and say, \"there it is\". no ingame storyline reasoning. my feeling is that makes for a poor presentation and it could easily be remedied for the benefit of subscribers.so.....all the above having been said, your comments regarding the storyline justification are completely valid. it does need work. perhaps even a different storyline idea, though i feel the original idea just needs a bit of work.i hope you'll reconsider supporting the speed hard cap as i've proposed. the storyline can be worked into and around it.regards,windjammer"
"fair reply. but still, if my pilot is also a skilled mechanic why can't he just remove the speed governor? will concord or the empire factions pursue him into 0.0 for breaking the law? will player owned alliances start hunting for these criminals?i do like having a speed cap. but that's what ccp is doing, just indirectly. there is a hard cap on a ship's max speed - it is the theoretical maximum with all best modules. and by carefully nerfing the modules you can control the max speed of ships. there's no need to implement a cap like this when it can be done with careful adjustments. ccp just needs to learn what careful means; but by using the test server i think they're doing a good job. i firmly believe all will be well after they revamp the patch."
"currently, the 'ignore' list for contracts stops at 80 entries. given the immense amount of idiotic scammers placing 'want to buy' orders as well as the already clumsy contract interface, the limit for ignored buyers/sellers should be expanded by a large amount. i support eve's cutthroat market and contract nature in general; indeed, stupid or inattentive people should be punished and have the opportunity to improve. however, the current contract system is already so slow and clumsy that the proliferation of 'lame dog' 'want to buy' contracts at 1/10 market value does not serve to reward the savvy buyers and punish the stupid. rather, such buy orders only clutter an already poor interface and prolong the agony when purchasing items we can only buy from contracts.:argh: so, given that intelligent buyers will strongly benefit from this enhanced feature and the stupid will fail to exercise their frontal cortex thus ensuring 'business as usual', i would like to have a vastly expanded ignore list implemented for contracts. at a minimum: several hundred entries, though i would prefer unlimited.thank you."
"here's a thumbs up as well, since the forums ate my original tick on the 'support' box.when are ccp going to fix their apparently patented 'programmed by stupids' forums? ever? i could download free forum software that does a better job..."
"i'd certainly like some enhanced filtering methods, to be sure.you can't filter out wtb orders, regardless if they're twitscam or not, which is one big annoyance.in a game w/ 400k users it would sure be nice to ignore more than 80 idiots."
"yes please"
"*pulls titan with ibis*"
"couple of months ago i got on the test server with my alt, loaded up a destroyer with ab and tractor beams, popped a bunch of carriers and towed 5 or 6 wrecks around, was epic"
"no."
"the current format of cloaking works well, if a player is playing the game according to the 'spirit of the game'.the issue lies with the number of players that choose to put their ship in a system, safe spot, cloak and proceed to continue with thier everyday duties, whether this is work, sleeping, going to the pub, playing another and actually not physically playing eve. cjhoosing instead to spend a few times in their day to check to see if there are any easy kills to be had in the system.the propsal is thiscovert cloaks into non passive modsthis would require some form of player intervention with the cloak at a point that it runs out the cap of the ship, or the timer runs out for its use. this would still enable cloaks to be a viable option fro monitoring ship movements, 'stalking' posibble targets and does nothing to 'nurf' the cloak.what this will do, is require a player to actually be playing that character, failure to see the timer running or or the cap running out will require some form of player interaction with his character in game, thus failure to actually recloak will leave the character vulable to attack."
"question i have is how is that not according to the \"spirit of the game\"?and if you want to address afk players i feel a good balance would be to make sure those pesky afk mission runners and miners get the nerf bat too.apparently psyops really works."
"cloaks are already non-passive - you have to activate them in order for them to work.the method of use you are referring to is recognised in the real-world military as a \"force multiplier\"for example, a sniper holes up somewhere and takes potshots killing enemy targets - enemies operating in that location then have constant anxiety about whether or not they are going to be the next snipe victim - regardless of whether or not the sniper is watching, eating, resting, gone for a bio break, whatever.cloaks are just fine - you have excellent tools available to you in the forms of local, scanner, probes and buddies - make use of all four and you will soon find that cloaked hostiles are not really a problem at all."
"first off, your position is ridiculous. realism? how can the word \"real\" or any derivative exist in an internet space ship game? second, do you have to go back to the very beginning of computer games and look at every game box and read what it says, minimum requirements, comes to my mind; i do believe for the last 30 years, game developers find system requirements to have a profound impact on the development of software where its ubiquitous throughout all aspects of game making. now i didnt graduate from digipen, but it doesn't take a genius to figure out your statement defies all logic.while minimum system requirements are advised for the client machine, so to should the limitations on game mechanics, which are tools by which players interact with the eve cliente and cluster. it is impossible to find poasts on caod on the first forum page that deal with fights where lag is not mentioned, where ccp=lag and all other derogatory references to poor server performance is not mentioned. impossible.the goals of the proposal are to hit 3 points. 1. simplified changes to encourage small gang activity within the current system of sov in 0.02. mitagate game play which leads to mundane tasks, less refueling of towers, less time shooting stationary objects3. investigate the impact of those changes on the effectiveness of loading grids with massive numbers of players and decrease the importance of lag as an active participate for the defendermore intuitive outcomes of the proposed changes, are what most major blob fest, nap alliances would fear by reducing the impact of isolated sov/system contests. huge implications to how alliances govern there space are clearly evident. if at anyone moment, installations can be attacked with real consequences, calling upon action, alliances may wish to stay home to protect those assets leading directly to the end of huge nap mega blocks as corporations and alliances of all sizes can engage assets on a more balanced playing field. these are the ultimate goals. to encourage, self sufficiency and serious and deliberate politics, not \"phone a friend alliance politics\" which is currently in eve."
"if distributed objectives were programmed into the game the way strontium was, they too would exist in the eve universe. it's all contrived to the point that contrivance carries little meaning if it's in the interest of good game design.the jamming interferes with life support systems on the station. voila!"
"basically my point is that game mechanics designed around meta-game problems is less than desirable, personally. it works, yes. but it feels more like artificial restrictions than an organic, emergent system."
"we are talking hit points, they were given too many, imo, and they should be reduced. the whole point of station services and anchorables outside the pos was to give small gangs the oppertunity. ccp just gave them too much... i understand what you mean about restrictions, like you can't carry full haulers in a carrier, only charges and scripts, but reducing hp is nothing like that"
"move moon miners outside shields and decrease their hp; boom, something for my small gang to shoot when the residents dock/pos up. anoying for the defenders that chose not to defend, but doesn't cripple their infrastructure, it is a small roaming gang afterall.agreeing with tarminic on #1 as well, big battles should be forced eventually.jammer away from poses is a nice idea, perhaps only at planets planets without stations even?. those shiny pos modules and **** make the grid load a *****."
"that would be a bit easy, and change the importance of the tower itself. the goal is to engage the infrastructure, not to destroy it but to be able to select point of contention with less resources and balance the fight for the defenders and attackers"
"this is a thing that have bugged me for some time, and its the fact that you need standings with a corporation to use jump clones. if i recall correctly, it is 6.0 in standings that is needed to use jump clones, which is a really horrible limitation, especially for pirates such as myself. for me to effectively use jump clones, i would probably have to grind standings for a couple of weeks. it is also a real limitation on traders, who might just want to trade and not skill up for running missions.here is my suggestion:1. make jump clones available for everyone with the skills needed.2. make the price of the jump clones dependent on your standing with the corporation you got your jump clones with.f.x. a jump clone could cost 10 million if you got 0 in standings. then for every 0.1 difference in standing the price of the jump clone changes by 1%. this means if you got 10.0 in standing with a corp, jump clones are free, but if you got -10.0 in standing you pay twice the price, meaning 20 million. this means that standings still have a very important impact on the use of jump clones, but they are free for use to everyone."
"the obligatory +1 support."
"dont neeed dev time. just look for mcorp clone serrvices many corps offer infinite clone make for 10mln or so."
"you shouldn't need to use a 3rd party corporation to do this. personally i don't have this problem as i have access to 0.0 outposts, but i remember how much it sucked before that."
"it's 8.0"
"i agree. either lower it or make it skill dependant intstead of standings."
"i support this concept disclaimer: i was in no way forced to post my support, honest"
"i support this awell, however that means for the past week all my grindin would be pointless"
"oh, come on, it's gotten way easier. used to be your corp had to have ludicrously high standings tooi want to say 8.0, which meant that one guy starting to run missions would destroy your ability to install jcs. but no, this one's been patched well enough by player clone vats for my liking. perhaps come up with a way to put clone vats in highseclike my thread a few weeks back to have research lines in offices, but no, don't reduce the standings requirement."
"it's easy enough to get an inside jumpclone contract as it is, no more watering down jumpclone mechanics."
"main problem with the standings is this: when you jumpclone out of a station where you do not have sufficient standings, why are they required to install a contract for you as you leave.this is a loophole/contradiction/whatever that should be either closed by not installing the jc as you leave, or opened by removing standings completely."
"not supportedyour to clueless to get jumpclones, and now you want to change game mechanics.your sure your a pirate and not a whining winger carebear ?"
"hey. he said he was a pirate. suck it up, rat girl. this guys with your group.windjammer"
"ok, oh wise one, tell me how i am to get jumpclones, instead of flaming me at the forums.am i supposed to grind standings to 8.0 with corps, while i am -10?and don't tell me \"get jump clones with a third party\".i would like to use jump clones for other things than just changing implants.i am pretty sure i am a pirate. i earn my isk from looting and ransoming."
"could pay a station holding corp for standings and docking rights, but yeah i think the high standings requirement is just a stupid unnecessary grind for most eve players.as if i'll ever get 8.0 standings with anything lololololzorz"
"so let me get this straight. you have a thread in general discussion saying that level 4 missions are to valuable for their risk and either they need to be nerfed, or 0.0 needs to be buffed.then you have this thread here \"discussing\" how high end minerals in losec, and 0.0 are to valuable?ok, gotcha."
"agreed, this is where the flooding of the vast majority of the mid to low range moon mins come from."
"admittedly, this idea is not completely 100% original on my part, but i thought it was good enough to give it's own thread.the problem, as i see it, is that everyone ccp included knows that macros and isk farmers sellers are out of control, but precious few people have any valid solutions beyond what ccp is already doing and failing miserably at.some people have suggested forcing players out of npc corps once their characters are a certain \"age\", thus allowing them to be war decced by players who feel their game behavior is infringing on the rules and/or spirit of the game. while this idea has some merit, imho, it is also fraught with problems that might drive some potential legitimate players away.it has been suggested that instead of taking the \"forced out of npc corps\" approach, that a simple extension of the \"trial account limitations\" would be more than enough to make life much more difficult for potential eve abusers.what this means is simply this: start limiting what ships a player can fly while in a npc corp. no mining barges or exhumers for a start. no battleships and battlecruisers later on. this would put a big dent in macro users and mission farmers / isk sellers in that they would have to open themselves up to potential war deccs to use those ships. players could then start to do a much better read: more active job of rooting these scum out than ccp seems to be capable of.now, before we get too far, note that i said limit the ships they can \"fly\" not the ships that they can own and/or have. it is just while they are in an npc corp, they can't take these types of ships out of station. the rp reason for it could be simple: \"your current corporate charter is not licensed for use in the craft you are trying to undock in.\"legitimate players should have no problems with this limitation because single few man corporations are already everywhere. forming your own corp takes having a single entry level skill at level 1, a one time token amount of isk; and you don't even have to pay for an office if you don't want to.sure, macro users and isk farmers would shift around in player corps to avoid these war deccs. but, doing so can be considered an exploit and eventually lead to banning that is super easy for ccp gms to check up on and prove, unlike most of the farming and macros these days. abusers could pad their player corps with as many dummy characters as they wanted. it would be super easy for the gms to see which characters were active, and which were not. then, when only the \"active\" characters went to leave a corp to dodge a dec; bam, exploit warning. a few of these, and a perma-ban couldn't be far away.anyway, i thought the idea had merit and wanted to put it out there for the players and the csm to gander at. for those who loathe threads about macros and isk farmers, i apologize for putting you through the horrific torture of having to look at another one. i know. you'll be damaged for years needing lots of therapy. but, at least this one included a solution that i think will actually significantly help.yes, there are more pressing issues out there for ccp to worry about. but, isk farmers/sellers and macros are a cancer that is slowly eating out the heart of our beloved game; and ccp seems wholly unwilling or unable to do anything significant to stop their progress. replies for and against are welcome.p.s. i give full credit and acknowledgement to others who have suggested this idea, or other extremely like it, elsewhere."
"i like it. the idea has a lot of potential with very little downside, from my point of view.at least, it is better than what ccp is doing about them now; which amounts to nothing.at worst, the idea won't help. at best, it will improve the game for everyone in one way or another.support."
"agreed, with the proviso that this should only apply in hi-sec."
"it would also have the bonus of getting mission runners out of npc corps as well."
"tentative support for this idea....i can see how this idea could help in combatting macro miners/macro mission runners specifically, as their trade is generally plied in high sec space and, if the idea helps in that regard only it is deserving of support.however, i'm not convinced isk farming would be affected in the slightest by any of these proposals - why?because for isk farming to be worthwhile you have to be regularly scoring bs kills, which means 0.0 ratting, so wardec-ability means nothing anyway.as a 0.0 resident i have some experience of a particular group of isk farmers - they were in a player created corp, not npc, and had set up shop in some of the backwater systems of the region i call home. after we killed a few of their ratting ships they quickly cottoned onto the idea of not warping to 0km in belts and make full use of cloaking and logoff game mechanics to avoid being probed out.i think ccp eventually caught them as they all stopped logging in one day - all the characters in all the systems disappeared at the exact same time.however, soon they were back, with different characters of course, but they set up in the same systems and behaved in the same way - i'm as sure as i can be that they were the same people! - this cycle has happened three times now and we're currently free of that group of isk farmers, although i'm expecting them back any day now!anyway, now you have my life story about my local isk farmers - in short i think if ccp are doing as good a job universe-wide as they are locally to me, then whilst not ideal, they are still clearly working on the problem and obviously care about it - so notwithstanding the feeling that your ideas will not combat isk farming at all, i am happy for now to leave them in the hands of ccp, and support your ideas for how they may help combat macro miners/missioners in high sec."
"i do support this idea, however there are going to be many people that don't.it would have a bad effect on the people who like to run level 4 missions and remain in the npc corp to avoid war-decs. i don't believe this is a bad thing, but i imagine their opposition will be very vocal and very strong. there is a fairly large community of people who are active members in the npc corps. they won't want to leave the friends they have made in the npc corp.the npc faction warfare corps should be exempt from this change, for obvious reasons. players could join this corp as an alternative to the starter npc corp, but this would lead to players who do not contribute to the war effort, skewing the fw stats."
"good idea."
"put this in asap."
"denied until they fix war-dec. at this time a lot of legit players stay in npc corps doing their thing missions, mining, manufactureing, etc because they don't want to be war-dec-ed for stupid reasons. forcing them to be in a 1 man corp suddenly causes them to be targets of this idiocy that plagues war-dec at the moment. fix how war-dec works then maybe this idea has merit, but at the current time? thumbs down."
"would you mind giving an example of one of these stupid reasons?"
"yes, because who needs a large portion of the subscriber base, anyways? word of advice to those who want to nerf npc corps. forcing people out of their preferred play styles because it offends you is boorish, and bad for business besides."
"perhaps you did not read slowly enough, or understand what you read? this idea doesn't force anyone to do anything. it simply expands limits that are already in place in the game.this doesn't even limit what you can train or own, simply what you can fly when in a npc corp.it also doesn't limit people opting out of participating in war deccs. it only limits how much isk they can make when they do. thus, it encourages people to pvp, but does not force them to. which is obviously what ccp had been trying to do since the inception of the game. kinda like: factional warfare???so, with all that said, not seeing your point at all i am affraid."
"not supporting this.a much more reasonable fix would be to limit the amount of time people can play eve per day. your average person works for 7 or 8 hours a day and sleeps for 8 hours. leaving 8/9 hours to play eve.limit it to 8 hours cumulative and then your eve client closes until the next day. only bots and isk sellers play 23 hours a day."
"an unrealistic solution based upon a false assumption."
"i never said it was a solution. i said it was more reasonable. you made a false assumption in assuming it was a solution"
"nicely done."
"ccp should actually take action against isk farmers. problem solved."
"i support this!"
"perma ban anybody caught buying or selling isk for a start.we already had a way to deal with isk sellers. it was called suicide ganking. some people abused it and started ganking for the hell of it. we all thought this was ok and part of eves cold harsh universe. ccp have now told us we were wrong and it's not. now ccp have had to nerf suicide ganking in an effort to stop it before it becomes an epidemic. given the track record do you honestly think that some players can be trusted not to use or abuse this for anything else than its intended purpose? i'm afraid i don't share your faith in the players."
"more accurate than the op though...."
"i'm not sure that the specifics mentioned in the op are the ideal one's, but i like the idea and think it should be given consideration."
"thumbs up.they also need to have war flags carry over per pilot so that once the dec comes down the person can go wherever they want... but they're still at war for the duration. eliminate the corp jumping exploit.if they join another player corp their war flag does not extend to that corp, but that corp can assist their new member and aggression, et al.neutral parties not in the player's corp assisting a war target, or jumping into a war corp and back out, will give that full duration war flag to the neutral and the corp flea."
"oh, there already are. hundreds of them. it's just like a 0.0 alliance.300 in alliance chat, only 30 wanting to do more than putter around doing their own thing."
"imo back to the drawing board. your idea if implemented would affect the macro miners to some extent but at the same time negatively impact those players who enjoy being solo flyers.i know people will cry out multiplayer and such but these people still pay their subscriptions and as such it is a valid playstyle. i've also known a few folks, active players, who prefer to remain in the npc corps for war dec protection. again, flame suit on but this is their choice. they wish to mine/mission in safety. more subscription money for eve.also, players who may have exited a corp and are currently seeking a new one would be nerfed to only fly certain ships? what about mr. joe pvp who is an awesomesauce bs pilot and wants to demonstrate this to his potential new corp by flying alongside them? get in your cruiser nub. same thing for super minergirl looking to get into that new club of miners. t1 mining frigate!closing, basically your idea has some merit imo but it has some serious flaws/holes that would need to be worked out so as legitimate players were not unduely affected by a \"blanket nerf.\" if you want any indications of the outcries from blanket nerfs, look at some of the speed/suicide gank threads of late."
"i don't like your corps namei wanted to name my corp that!you ignored me in localyou have only 3 members! woot! easy target for out 100+member corpyou said i smell in local!"
"sorry this is a bad idea. whilst it would help 'police' the current problems it would also infringe on a legitimate playing style. people should be able to choose to play eve in the way they like once they have a paid account not have the possibility of war decs forced upon them simply to fly around in bigger ships. also just after ccp introduces something that will curb more of the high-sec ganking your then introducing something that will do the complete opposite."
"or:our alts have lots of cash, let's just wardec any mining group we see in local so we can get our killboards up!"
"i would like to be able to make up my own ships paint scheme. would it be possible to make up a patch tomake this possible."
"no."
"first off, since it would cause server stress, there must be an option to disable it.if this were the case, i would immediately turn it off to improve client performance. but the person with the supercomputer and super-bandwitdh wouldn't have to turn it off.now, custom paint schemes or other graphics whatnot give an advantage to people who use it as they can identify certain players quickly without using the overview. thus, mr. supercomputer has an advantage because he has a better computer than i do.ccp would never include a mechanic that both 1 requires a better computer to run efficiently and 2 gives an advantage to players who use it.note that the premium client only fulfills part one of these characteristics"
"i hear posting the same thing over and over, in caps, bold, and underline at the same time is a good way to get your point across."
"stop posting multiple threads on the same stupid subject and underlining them. posting same exact rubish in multiple forums is called cross posting and is not a good way to sway peoplei used all caps and underlined the texts because it seems this person can only understand things in caps and underlined."
"i would like to be able to make up new paint and paint scheme for my ships.i think it would give players more of there own identity"
"stop cross posting same crap over and over."
"please see the following thread and read the documentation for proposed changes to the bounty system and merc system."
"seems like you're pretty on target. going to reword this to be sure we're on the same frequency. sorry my writing isn't succinct. *^_^* going to flesh out some details as well.proper array combat managementattacking an array causes the tower to try and heal the array back to operational shield level five minutes from now. tower estimates how much the array will need based on dps calcs.the behavior is designed to keep arrays very relevant all throughout a large fleet pos fight. a bs fleet that tried to knock out every array by moving around as a single blob would find the tower healing arrays in their wake. thus to keep arrays offline, it's almost necessary to camp all of them. the brute force method is effectively volunteering to be divided across several grids.a cheaper way to nullify the arrays pilot-wise is to leave the arrays online and simply intercept the shield bursts in their early stages. this allows a handful of fast ships to counter the arrays.furthermore, if you instead do just enough damage to trigger the effect, not trying to offline arrays the tower will have overestimated the necessary amount of aid. if you can do this fast enough, the pos will be donating shield at an unnecessarily swift rate to the arrays.the ninja reinforcement maneuvernormally the tower is thinking that it will be receiving shield bursts from the arrays. thus tower is trying to invest its own shield towards eventually gaining more back through shield bursts later.however, you can execute both special techniques simultaneously. force the tower to overheal the arrays and interdict any shield bursts from the array to the tower. the tower will be receiving no hp back and will be sacrificing an inordinate amount of its own shield to keep the arrays online, even though they might not truly be under serious threat. it's a design built for large-fleet efficiency that can be tricked by mid-size gang cleverness into instead multiplying their forces.ninja-reinforcement technique limitationthe benefit of the technique is less muscle required. the drawback is more time.you can only cause the tower to donate up to 25% of array max shields at a tiem. this is because the array will go into reinforced at 25% nullifying any further dps of anyone sitting there and only need to be at 50% to become online again. maximum dps you can inflict with this method is thus capped by the interval of healing and maximum shield boost size. it's a ninja method that only scales up so far.cyno-jam implicationssomething very dear to all our readers' hearts, if a tower is hosting a cyno jammer, you can potentially get the tower into reinforced without ever laying eyes on the cyno-jam. just need a lot of support and good ewar for any carriers that show up at the tower. requires five times the titans to camp."
"agree wholeheartedly. i'll bet the reason for opposition to the pos system as the only determination of sov is almost 99% due to the flaws of pos warfare. fixing pos warfare will go a long way towards fixing them as instruments of sov. kelsin's goals for startgate capture can probably be attained to a large degree by better pos warfare, which benefits all parties."
"i don't particularly care for the pos 'donating' shield to the arrays as much as i prefer the pos shield recharge rate being decreased. say each array has a max recharge rate that is of 1/4 the max rate of the pos. bringing each array to max recharge simultaneously will bring the pos down to 0% shield recharge. destroying an array should hurt the maximum shield capacity, hurting the rate further.having physical shield bursts that can be destroyed i personally don't care for are ships supposed to follow them between grids? also i don't like the idea of a pos going into reinforced after having only attacked it's perimeter. it still must be dealt damage directly to be reinforced."
"i love your new pos mechanism ideas with reinforced mode and stuff, but the ferry dronse and voluntary things i dunno about but you have my support, but this idea needs working on.also threads like this puts a smile on my face, it shows the eve won't die tomorrow and it has alot to improve since its still in its baby stage"
"if arrays are destroyable, a blob will just have to make a tour of the arrays and then go blow up the tower like usual. any method of tying the arrays to the tower needs to keep all five grids relevant at all times. otherwise we'll keep seeing single-grid fights. the reinforcement behavior of the arrays is designed to solve this.arguably, pos warfare should require dreads to tank the guns and thus require a non-mobile deployment that is committed to trying to take the tower down. this isn't 100% true now.i know what kelsin's supporters are after though, and opening the field for mid-sized gangs to do it as well, albeit slowly and able to be stopped cold by caps at the tower, would be healthy for 0.0 combat.still yet, one of the original goals of pos warfare was to give a defensive advantage. currently guns are only at the tower though, so reinforcement via arrays breaks this rule. i guess there could be guns at the arrays? question is how many guns and if the arrays get a bubble to protect the gunners. not quite settled on that.i like the tangible, targetable shield burst idea because it provides another way for more mobile forces to play a very pivotal role in pos warfare. bs's can do it to, so it's not going to require a shift in fleet distribution, even if it makes differentiation more attractive. a burst that can be targeted can also be triaged, and the geometric growth rate will take off if given an early boost. it's a method for attackers and defenders to very directly affect what happens at the tower from the array.no, ships don't follow them between grids. once a burst has built to size at an array, it is sent to the pos. it's essentially out of anyone's hands at that point. as for the pos, since it's cannibalizing its own shields, it doesn't use the same process and thus its bursts are not targetable.think of it as a limited one-way relationship. you can influence the tower from an array but not the array from the tower. it's possible to triage the tower or reinforce the tower directly, so it's not entirely one-way. anything else would again allow a huge blob, to blob the tower and ignore the arrays.i understand it would be much simpler to simply use recharge rate relationships, but these won't provide as much avenue for small skirmishes or fleets of ospreys to force the attacker to stay involved at all arrays. i know it sounds overcomplicated and annoying, but am confident it wouldn't look so complex on sisi."
"ok so major question then: if gangs are deployed only at the arrays and the shield bursts is it possible to reinforce the pos without ever firing directly at the control tower?if that is true, then i can't support it. at some point damage must be dealt directly."
"well, it's still up for discussion actually can you tell me more about why you in principle disagree with this capability?in principle i think there should be a strong relationship between arrays and the tower. the goal is break a single-grid fight into a multi-grid fight. as such, the array should be a path to the tower, both for defense and offense. as the design stands now, of the methods open to the attacker is to trigger the pos to overheal arrays.can guns at the arrays maybe 1/4th available at tower...needs more thought work towards alleviating your concerns?"
"mainly because of this:should the owner of the pos would have the ability to disable any transfer of shield to protect the main structure? basically one may in character say \"these shield bursts are killing my pos lets turn them off... what do you mean there's not an off switch who engineered this thing?\" without this ability to disable the mechanic it seems restrictive for in-game reasons.of course enabling the deactivation of shield transfers may cause many to just simply turn it off all the time and not care if their arrays go down, forcing the attackers to engage at the pos. after some thought this really negates the argument for recharge rate, and really for any sort of pos-->array defense assistance that drains the pos.additionally, for what in-game reason must the arrays be located off grid? if i were a pos owner i'd just anchor them all together - in other words why is there this artificial distance between pos and arrays?i think it is for these reasons why i'm losing faith in the 'separation' solution to pos destruction. not because your idea is bad, but because it so well thought out it is revealing the inherent flaws in the broader concept."
"this, frankly, isn't going to solve the blobbing situation one bit. if a defense fleet is larger than an attacking fleet, and the attacking fleet splits off to take out one modulation array at a time, there's nothing to stop the defenders kerbstomping one fleet that's less than a quarter of the size of theirs at a time until they're dead. if the attacking fleet is larger, then they'll wipe the floor by balling up. job done.in fact, you've managed to turn one boring pos siege into five boring pos/pos modulating array sieges. this idea is even worse than the last one. where do you cretins keep on coming up with this crap? the uwe boll memorial home for criminally insane ideas that should never have seen the light of day?and, just to pick up on the original post, if you hadn't noticed, a pos burns all but two of its fuel types, no matter how much stuff you've got onlined. the ball-ache is getting of of it into empire, and reducing the amount of ozone and liquid oxygen isn't going to be the universal panacea that you make it out to be."
"precisely. proposing this as a non-voluntary change to mechanics. as for the question of why they can't be turned off, why doesn't unused strontium go back into the bay when you rep a pos out of reinforced? it would make sense, but there has to be a price for filling up the bay with stront and playing hide and seek with carriers.the arrays operate a gravitational flux field in the space between the array and the tower. the field harvests the gravitational flux that occurs in the tide of space. normally an imperceptible current, when collected over a large distance, it becomes a strong power source.i believe they should be set up such that when you go to anchor them, they warp themselves off-grid in a neat configuration. one towards the star, one to the left, right, and away from the star.all in all, i don't think pos's are failing 100%. this is a game, and we need to have something to stimulate some agreement as far as when fights occur. otherwise there's no indication of where to meet and when for the showdown. if anything, the pos system is a good fight broker. meet us on the playground at 5-11 in two days, three hours, and fourty-two minutes. if you don't show up, we're going to blow up your tower."
"if the attacking force is bigger and throws everything at the tower, you park your carriers at arrays and indirectly rep the pos to the point of tears. since their dreads aren't going anywhere fast, you can afford to triage. wiping the floor against a fully loaded deathstar that's recieving 10m shield hit-points every five minutes is hardly a pic-nic.if the defending force is bigger, with current mechanics, you probably wouldn't be winning the battle anyway. in my proposal at least you can try to force them into bad skirmishes using feints while trapping their main forces. you might be able to turn it uphill for them. if the situation is really bad, just split up to other systems and run up the fuel bill. don't get caught.you're absolutely correct about the dynamics of having to split up. forcing a divided fleet means vulnerability to being blobbed while divided. this is why you have to play your cards slowly and try to win as much ground with as few ships as possible, keeping your cavalry available to open up a retreat or to pin a routed enemy. trying to keep some caps safed up until you can field them advantageously. this forces you to constantly skirmish all over the pos and if you can't win the skirmish fights without blobbing, you end up over-committed at one location and outflanked at another. on the other hand, if you can force the enemy's hand, you will gain a huge tactical advantage.you have to fight five fights and coordinate them well without showing too much skin. you have to pay a lot of attention to a force even half your size since they will wipe out a deployment that gets trapped away from friends. you have to win lots of small skirmishes all the way down to one-vs-one dogfights. you have to treat any threat as a potentially dangerous one. you have to pounce on every single opportunity. if the enemy gets over-extended, pound on their weak spots. if they're flat-footed, outmaneuver them.this can only be boring if you'd rather have the privilege of ignoring any hostile gang not at least 75% your size since they're going to get rolled."
"just to respond to this point - i don't think small gangs should be attacking and destroying pos. i think there's a vital and valuable role for siege fleets for that purpose. the problem is that setting up and knocking down pos is a poor method of determining who \"owns\" space. ownership of space and the benefits that come with it should be based on something far more comprehensive. if defenders are to have abilities like the jump bridge that confer great power in dealing with small gang incursions, then part of the system that grants those abilities should be based on small gang combat.the current system is very feudal, allowing the control of space by constructing and sieging fortresses. what i'm interested in is modernizing it."
"i just started a thread in jita park linkage about the fundamentals of sovereignty."
"forgive me for making such a ridiculous mistake about my own proposal, but it's not possible to destroy a pos with a small gang in this setup.it's possible to reinforce the pos and run it down to zero shields when it goes out, but you have to shoot the armor, and that's not connected to the arrays. you can't hurt pos armor via the arrays, so in the end you have to do something at the tower.small gangs can run up the fuel bill and disrupt moon mining in this setup, but can never take down a tower and destroy hardware. that would still require a gang and dreads.with that, i'll skip the question of guns and bubbles at the arrays. for now, no, they'll just be naked."
"ohgod i hate tower sieges!!!! a few more silent details that are built into the design:pos warfare fuel costsafter some more consideration, i'd like to shed some more light on fuel consumption and reinforcement. these relationships are based on a concept of more meaningful sovereignty. de-facto economic sovereignty means you are making money off of a system. having a tower thrown into reinforced should be pretty expensive and strain logistics to maintain. a power with towers can never be removed by simply reinforcing towers all the time, but they might choose to leave if it's costly enough. sov gained through the ceding of territory isn't a recognition of who can win outright pos warfare, but that the power ceding territory has less interest than the power taking it. it would be a healthy thing for 0.0 and would place less emphasis on the fleet battles, although it's still possible to burn down all the towers if you have enough muscle and willpower.if you haven't read the op and followed the thread, it's possible via a loophole for a mid-sized gang to reinforce a tower without sieging it. no dreads required. can only destroy with siege, but reinforcement can be done, albeit slowly, without touching the tower.goals of fuel consumption behaviorif you really want a territory, you can field a tower that gives you much more capability to protect yourself form large threats, but at the price of exposure to smaller threats, thus requiring more de-facto sovereignty to come ahead on economically.if you don't really care for a territory, you have to expose yourself to smaller siege fleets in return for the decrease in expense and less de-facto sov required.specific amendments for pos fuel consumptioncurrent towers are given one fourth their power-grid and one fourth their shield hp.i hate tower sieges. raise the reinforcement shield level to 60% so that there is less needless shooting of a giant structure. nobody cares about the first 40% of shields since the defender rarely shows up for this phase. buffs to tower hp via arrays make this change especially necessary.with no arrays, the tower has to use internal power sources that require maintenance, thus a high 250% of current npc mechanical parts etc fuel consumption rate.each array provides a full half of current power grid to the tower and a boost of one eigth of current shield hp, raising death star firepower with four arrays above existing death stars while boosting post-reinforcement hp.each array lowers npc fuel types required by 22.5%, with four bringing npc fuel consumption to 25% of current.whenever the tower goes into reinforced, the arrays do not contribute to power-grid. a tower in reinforced is saying \"my owning alliance has invested a lot of fuel to buy the opportunity to protect me until they can come to my defense.\"without the arrays online and contributing power grid, the rate of fuel consumption is quadruple that of the base tower, with the tower supplying all of the power grid via emergency hardware. this works out to 1000% npc fuel rate and 632% lo rate, all on top of strontium.fuel bay size should appropriately increased to allow for the same time frames of fueling/reinforcement.the result of these modifications is that a naked tower can be fielded for hands-free management, but will be easy to burn down. thus if you don't want to deal with keeping de-facto sovereignty, you will have it taken by force from you more easily.a much beefier tower can be fielded if you're willing to take on mid-sized gangs who show up in your territory. you must have de-facto sovereignty or else face serious blows to economic sovereignty in the form of fuel bills every time the enemy decides to come visit."
"please add this already."
"i agree for this idea that i have quoted. my support is for doing something and if we do something...i support this idea that zareph thought of."
"game needs more nodes pls or some kind of solution. 600 v 600 might still be laggy but do not lag out people doing 2v2 or 4v4's on empty systems. i.e game lacks nodes so empt systems gets lumped together and if blob war happens then everybody, even those 100's of jumps away but on same node, suffers due to lack of nodes."
"i'd like to see a response, just because it'd cut down on the arguments."
"why does someone with corp name low-sec liberators want a pvp-free zone in eve? indeed why would we want one at all? or am i missing your point somewhere in that argument lacking any depth...by lowering the penalty for fighting in low-sec, it takes longer to get to -5, meaning a starting pirate can spend longer having access to high-sec. explain to me please how this makes a pirate's life harder?even though i've disagreed with you on occasion, i can support that notion. nothing wrong with more info. however, i'd say we all deserve the response, not just those who have been in the game a long time. after all, from a business perspective, ccp has already had your money. it's us newer players they want to keep tempting. so yes, and since i forgot in my previous post to do so, i support the notion, even with ki an's rather unpleasant way of handling it.edit: i'd suggest however having a good read of this post, just as a potential different spin on things. whether you agree or not, i think it does give a hint as to where ccp might be coming from."
"the problem many probably have, too many chatchannels, unable to read their titles.i was thinking that that could be fixed by merging the tab format of the corporate hangars into the chat windows 4tabs with 3 under them.the idea has had some positive respons in the features and ideas discussion section, with so far, nothing negative.people with small resolutions will benefit greatly from this as most older players have many channels, to keep in touch or see intelligence. high resolution players still gain from this as they can read the full channelnames, with amount of players in it etc.downside would be that the amount of space reserved for actual text would be a little reduced, but in my opinion it is too little to be noticed.thank you,moizo"
"almost a duh. i like minimizing the width of the chat window and pushing it off to the left, but i want access to all of the tabs. good issue."
"this seems nice."
"[x] the ninja salvager should not be aggro'd to the mission runner after the first wreck is salvaged, because i support ccp's current ruling that salvage is free for anyone with the proper tools to retrieve from wrecks.as a newbie to the game i have only recently started salvaging, and i have not tried the ninja salvaging scenario described in the original post. i have recently spent several hours combining gurista pirate hunting with the salvaging of abandoned wrecks. in doing a repeating circuit of spawn sites for pirates, i found at least three clearly abandoned wrecks for every pirate located. when i logged off after a couple of hours of repeating the same circuit i had left behind dozens of yellow containers. it is very clear to me that the \"owners\" of the kills had no intention of salvaging or even looting the wrecks.this is similar to other online games i have played, such as wow. you go out to harvest critters for the hides and find that someone has simply killed all the good critters in an area and left the bodies unskinned. this is identical to what i have observed on my gurista pirate hunting circuit. therefor i must vote in favour of wrecks being available for anyone to salvage. if i understand the conversation on this subject, the ninja salvager is not subject to attack by the \"bad guys\" the mission runner is taking on. this seems unreasonable. i would suggest that anyone entering the mission area should be subject to attack by the \"bad guys\". this seems more \"realistic\" and subjects the ninja salvager to some of the risk. in wow, if i follow another player looking to skin bodies he/she abandons, i am still subject to attack by the local critters. please excuse my ignorance if i have misunderstood the immunity aspect of the debate. thank you."
"you just admitted that you're stealing his stuff. i guess that kinda derails your entire argument."
"that's not true. isk has real world utility, and requires a significant real-world investment to obtain. the gamecard market is a great testament to that."
"stupid thread. leave high sec and go play the real game."
"it is the fault of older players that mandate the training of learning skills that newbies are turned off. not the fault of the system itself. players getting a feel for the game shouldn't bother with learning skills and if they are subjected by vets and listen to them they are being too impressionable rather than assessing the situation themselves. if a vet told you to jump off a bridge..."
"lol? so then you're proposing that new players should remain ignorant of the fact that they're being punished so it won't bother them? c'mon that's just stupid. that's like saying it's ok for a noob to jump off a bridge so long as they remain blissfully ignorant of the consequences.the fact is that training learning skills is always the best strategy in the long run, and by \"choosing\" not to train learning skills, you're doing nothing but penalizing yourself. of course a noob who learns that this is going to be upset. it's the system that causes the problem, not the noob's awareness of the system.you might as well say we should destroy all documentation of the combat system's mechanics so that way people will be blissfully ignorant of how good or bad their weapons are, and we can all be happy using crummy fits and blaming our losses on luck."
"but it's not as simple yes train them or no don't train them. it is up to the player exactly how far they want to take their learning skills at different stages of their character's life. should they train them all at once? should they space them out with their other skills so it's not so boring? should they wait until frigate v to train up all of their perception and engineering v for intelligence because most of the gains will be seen on these chunks of skills anyway?it's an important sandbox feature that in essence gives players a chance to be proactive or procrastinate depending on their play style and personality."
"yes. they get more points. period. they are better off by training them all at once.and here you hit the nail on the head. why have skills that are boring? none of the other skills are boring. why is boredom even a factor in how much you as a player are rewarded, especially from the very beginning? it makes no sense from a game design perspective. if i'm a new player i want to jump into all the game's features, but then i find out that i lose out on the game's most important resource if i don't spend at least half a month boring myself out of my mind how does that hook me into the game?the longer they wait the more skill points they lose. i'm afraid i can't come up with any boredom utility to skill point utility ratios, so i can't apply any economic ideas to it.so you want the game to be \"work and responsiblity online\"?"
"so strill, all i have seen from you is whining. have not seen one reasonable suggestion of any kind.it is obvious you have no clue what you are talking about and you are whining because its toooo hard. no one is making you train ****. i did not train my learning skills till' at least a month or two in the game. at that point i made the decision to stay with the game. then i started training the skills to help me along.and at that time you had to level out at 5 before you could train the advanced set."
"add a topic. there should be a way to replace the csm head rep once you find out the one you elected is a total moron and has no idea about anything except roll playing a girl so he can meet boys online and get confronted by chris hansen and end up in jail with his front teeth knocked out."
"could we please have fleet battle lag discussed as an issue at the meeting? it has been raised a number of times - for example"
"yes, fix the lag. we know, ccp knows, and by now most tibetan monks probably know."
"i'm back from holidays today, so will be attending."
"what makes you think ccp know? the only quote i've seen from ccp on fleet battle issues comes from further up this thread as follows: \"nathan ccp said that he does not believe that current large-scale fleet combat is interesting for the participants, mainly due to focus fire.\"that comment didn't come from someone who has experienced fleet battle's current issues. ism't it worth discussing this explicitly with ccp rather than just saying 'yes yes, of course everyone knows about that' ?"
"they know about lag. you don't need to tell them about lag at all."
"is there a problem with putting it on the issues list? it isn't there currentlyis there a problem with discussing it in the csm meeting? surely it would be worthwhile."
"i wouldn't be opposed to knowing exactly what they are doing to improve performance."
"those tibetan monks are wise, and surely know the answers to all questions. maybe csm should discuss sending nozh to tibet to find out what the solution is"
"that's exactly how it works. ccp spin the wheel of nerf, and sledgehammer whatever it lands on nano this time. usually while at the same time completely ignoring screwed ships and mechanics for months and months black-ops, cyno jammers, jumpbridges, bombs, range rig stacking bug etc etc.of course the players and particpants in whatever style of play don't get a say. ccp don't give a crap what you think."
"linkage to the assembly hall thread!!! sovereignty is often recognized as territory and the ability to control that territory. territory in the scope of this game is vague  system control is the current setup but it is determined by the control of uninhabited moons. additionally, at its root it this definition is not specific in how control is defined.so we have the problem of deciding first what territory are we controlling, and second how exactly we are imposing our sovereignty. this thread will look at these two fundamental concepts within the context of eve and hopefully will present a foundation upon which a proposal can be made for a new game mechanic that clearly and sensibly defines how we control territory.territory is important to look at first. an alliance wishing to claim sovereignty over a system must essentially control its inhabitants. and unlike empire space where stations are abundant, there are not many places for a systems inhabitants to live other than planets. this is assuming the following:first, it is assumed that moons are all uninhabitable. second, it assumes that outposts, being controlled by alliances, are primarily built for function refining, research, service, administration, factory, cloning, etc. and not for supporting lots of people other than the crew of the outpost. third, it assumes that any other habitable structure is unregistered and is located in a deadspace location. these three assumptions narrow down the location of the majority of the population of a system to its planets, and as such these should be the focus of territory. i think that exerting control of a 2/3 majority of planets and major habitable moons should they be included would give an entity sovereignty of a system.now, control can be broken down into three fundamental categories: military control, economic control, and cultural control. typically control would be imposed by planetside government that to some extent controls military, economy, media, or some combination of the aforementioned depending on the governments personality and basic beliefs. but were a bunch of capsuleers and wouldnt bother with petty involvements."
"taking an idea from factional warfare occupancy, control of a planet could take place at a sort of control bunker call it whatever you like. the owner of the control bunker in effect controls the planet, and ownership is determined by an entitys influence over the planet. this is where the 3 forms of control come into play. the entity that has the most forms of control  military, economic, and cultural - is the entity that holds the most influence and is credited with controlling the planet.the mechanic that determines planetary influence could be orbital structures. military structures would be the hardest to destroy but would provide no benefit to the controlling organization and require many resources. economic structures would provide an income to the controlling entity and be defendable, but not as hard shelled as a military base. cultural structures would involve media control and entertainment, fragile and subject to propaganda and psyops infiltration thus requiring the most attention, but providing massive rewards to the alliance surpassing that of economic influence.this allows multiple play styles and forms of empire building. on the defensive, economic infrastructure can be built up with military support, and finally culture can flourish resulting in stronger control. on the offensive, a blitz campaign can occur where only military bases are setup while all other structures are destroyed, resulting in police control most similar to pos warfare. military superiority coupled with owning the only economic structure would result in control of a planet.or, an alliance can resort to cultural subversion and economic disruption, practicing guerilla tactics to slowly erode the influence of the current owner. and most interestingly, this allows three entities to compete and essentially be tied on a planet if each focuses on a different form of influence.the exact mechanics arent really complete and would be up to ccp anyway, but a system similar to the influence-control-sovereignty model allows for a wide array of play styles and tactics in gaining territorial control. there is still the option of military only like the current system, but also the option of refining your empire to provide rewards could be determining factors for level of sov or constellation sov. and now there are ways of overthrowing enemy control in ways other than who has more guns."
"so tl;dr-sovereignty is defined as control of territory-system sovereignty is determined by majority control of planets.-planet control is determined by a combination of military, economic, and cultural influence think galactic civilizations but much simpleroutcomes:-military blitz is still an option but is not the only option-more options for empire building and reward grooming-i have no idea if it fixes mean scary blobbing but rather its an entirely new vision in looking at sov.after some discussion here hopefully i can cross post this to assembly hall.-fahtim meidires"
"poses, as bad a determinant of sovereignty as they are, at least have the virtue of being structures the players want to build and use. given the lack of npc civilization in 0.0, pc research and manufacturing is critical, and that happens at poses, as does the gold mine du jour of moon mining. of course there are death stars for the combated systems, but the core systems don't take down the poses because sovereignty is won, they convert them into industrial yards. in order for your vision of planetary structures to be viable in the long term, you will need to make these planetary structures as attractive to build, maintain, and defend as poses are today. you have ideas for how good they should be, but i don't see any ideas for what they should do. it's nice to talk about planetary culture, but there are literally two implementations of human beings in eve today - little spacefaring eggs, and the livestock market category. in order for your idea of cultural control to make sense, you first have to create culture for tens of thousands of planets. sure, it can be simplistic and generated by computer, but there still needs to be more than just \"planets have people\" for this to make any kind of sense. in order for propaganda satellites to have benefits, you first have to figure out what planets are good for besides convenient gravity wells. so you have military, economic, and psychological dominion over a planet, good for you. what does that give you? it's not that this isn't an interesting idea - it very well could be. but i've seen variants on it several times, and nobody has yet seemed to answer the question of what, precisely, planets do. until that's addressed, this still seems like too much of a pipe dream for my liking."
"i agree that cultural control was the weakest component and would likely be the first to go if this transitions to the assembly hall. the other two work well though. high defense military satellites provide planet influence, while low defense economic provide isk. something like that may simplify it all. all of these structures, of course, could killed with medium fleets, the advantage to the defender is the ability to send a crapload of them into orbit; maybe 20 or more, with 6-7 military installations required to gain planet control. if you deploy 20 military satellites the planet will be secure but unproductive, and vice-versa along the scale.orbital satellites determining planet control, which then determine system sovereignty, would create the 'layers' desired by some."
"thanks for starting the discussion fahtim, this is definitely an overall philosophical question that needs to be sorted out. a couple quick thoughts for now with more to come later:it may be helpful to distinguish between sovereignty as it applies to pod pilots and that of planetary governments. at present capsuleer alliances are pretty independent of dirtside politics everything we need and value is derived from in-space resources. i think 0.0 sov is more about capsuleer sovereignty than npcs on the planets assuming they are inhabited.the really interesting concept you brought up was how economics might play into sov. that is an unexplored angle and i think something very interesting could come of that."
"they would generate pure isk, free and clear? i am about the last person in existence to worry about inflation in eve, but that starts ringing inflation alarm bells in my head. there's a hell of a lot of planets in 0.0, and putting 20 cash sources around each has the potential to thoroughly warp the monetary system. you're on very thin ice here. and while we're on the topic, i've come up with an idea for a revamp to the sovereignty system significantly less drastic than yours, so i figured i'd mention it. sov 1: one of pos sovereigntyas current system or gate sovereigntyof the style kelstin keeps championing on the assembly hall. grants fuel use reductions.sov 2: both of pos sovereignty and gate sovereignty. grants low-end anchorablese.g., cynogens.sov 3: as sov 2, but must also have sov 1 in all systems in the constellation. grants high-end anchorablese.g., cynojammers, gate usage logging and notification. sov 4: as sov 2, but must also have sov 2 in all systems in constellation and an outpost. maximum one sov 4 per constellation. prevents new poses from being anchored by other corps without permission, prevents attacks on gate sovereignty. yes, it is possible for two different alliances to have sov 1 in the same system at the same time. this is intentional. let the raiders come in and steal the gates, and it'll give them some status, but in order to win for real they'll have to drop dreads into the mix. also, the rewards for each level of sovereignty are just things that sounded good at the time. don't take them too seriously - there's a reason the proposal isn't in the assembly hall."
"sov is ep33na lot of control is about having de-facto sovereignty. if you claim a territory, you claim a territory. no mechanism is required to show you that you own a system where you consistently kick ass.with economic power, there's really no way to combat a market pvp'er. it's just not happening in any meaningful way.i agree it'd be fun to have some way to spray your name on a system like a graffiti artist. i'd like to have something more to do with a medium sized gang than stare for three hours until the enemy decides they've reached critical mass 2x enemy. i wouldn't mind having something like automated miners omfg!!!!!!!!! in a system that are basically like civilians. a representation of your economic power and vested interest in the tidiness of your system.the best way to implement these \"civilian miners\" i believe would be to randomly spawn freshly logged in players to 0.0 systems. could give them mining barges or exhumers. maybe even have them jetcan mine. haulers. production people.we could have an entire population of these 0.0 \"civilian miners\" who do nothing but produce crap and bolster the 0.0 economy of alliances who can keep their boarders non-porous and maintain stability for the citizens. i read something somewhere about what a carebear does, and it seems an awful lot like carebears could be developed into something like this...just rambling"
"the civilian miners idea is really awesome.imagine it works like this:if you own a system and keep it relatively well patrolled and your miners are decently smart, you gain the following benefits:the roids in your space automagically turn into finished goods you can use to win more space.market activity is increased a great deal and it's much easier to buy/sell goods.you get a huge increase in station fees/refinery action.however, in order to have these civilian miners, you have to keep their hardship level low. the following conditions will reduce their numbers:they lose a hulk.they lose faith in your ability to hold space and desert you.you impose too strict of laws on them or decide miners are ******ed and nuke them yourselves.remind you of anything?"
"the problem i have with this combined pos/gate sov system is that an alliance that does not visit their system often can lose their status quickly. also constellations should have nothing to do with sov 3. the problem with these mechanics is the effective stripping of jump bridge networks. systems that are a link in a jump bridge chain often never see any local stargate traffic. but that doesn't mean the system isn't being used by hundreds of alliance pilots every day. you can't impose stargate control without giving the defending alliance the ability to fit defenses like sentry guns on the gates  a modest request if gates become important"
"editthis is what i hope to bring to the assembly hall, with a few tweaks from you guys./editalso, wrt the economic aspect, planet npcs and isk generation:maybe the best way to look at the orbital compound is a strict military standpoint, seeing as the mechanics of cultural and economic are weak in sensibility. however i still think that multiple small structures at planets is better than one big structure at a moon.the deployment of small military outposts in orbit makes it easier for small groups to disable them, but the sheer number of the structures makes it take a long time. here are a few ideas for military orbital structures:micro - military surveillance satellitesmall - military refueling satellitemedium- orbital defense platformlarge - planetary defense headquartersmilitary surveillance satellite - can be deployed regardless of planetary control. located on a small, 50km grid. impossible to find with astrometrics - can only be located by the deployment of your own mss scan. and too small to hit with cruiser/bs weapons; should take 5 frigates to break shield dps. allows the pinpointing of orbital defense platforms max of 5. small guns.military refueling satellite - can be deployed regardless of planetary control. located on a medium-sized 100km grid. impossible to find with astrometrics - can only be located by an mss scan. too small to hit with bs weapons; should take 5 cruisers to break shield dps. each refueling satellite provides fuel for 2 orbital defense platforms max of 5. medium guns.orbital defense platforms - can be deployed unless the defender has an active planetary defense headquarters. locatable using astrometrics. easily hit by battleship weapons; should take 5 bs to break shield dps. requires refueling satellites. alliance with the most orbital defense platforms has control of the planet max of 5.planetary defense headquarters - can be deployed when 5 orbital defense platforms are owned and no other active odp is present in orbit. prevent the deployment of more odp. similar defenses of a medium control tower. fuel requirements 3x that of an odp max of 1. provides owner with locations of all friendly and hostile surveillance and refueling satellites, without scanning, if 5 friendly surveillance satellites have been deployed. guns ftw.instead of the reinforcement timer, each pdh and odp has 24hrs of fuel. if enough refueling stations go offline, these structure's shields go offline, starting with a pdh if present, when fuel expires. the deployment of new refueling satellites takes 24hrs to refuel the large structures."
"specific mechanics:24hr timers are completely advantageous to the enemy.single-grid objectives just make for a quick tour of the system as a single blob.current pos mechanics basically just give us a good time and place to fight. this really only measures how well a corp can win a giant fleet fight.should this represent all of what sov is? i don't think so. should it change hands if you leave home? not really.sov currently is awarded when you win a series of pos fights. as a metric of claim to territory, it only means \"we won the battle.\"something i'm kind of unhappy with is the ability to wear on a large power with small fights. smaller objectives don't completely solve this. if the objectives can be made very costly even when they're not destroyed outright, then you have a system where a non-interested party can be harassed into leaving a system they don't care about.a sovereign's economic power can be reflected in whether they make enough money to fuel the pos's/deal with transgressions.in the end i'd look for a system where it's possible to cost a lot of isk to a standing power without driving them out by force. if you can make it expensive to hold space that you want, you can make it a straightforward decision to cede territory you don't want.of course i'm biased and went after these goals 100% in my thread on csm =d with the mid-size gang capability to reinforce a pos and the changes to fuel consumption under reinforced, it's much more feasible to cost an alliance enough through headaches and isk pits that they may rather pack up and acknowledge that you're more interested in the territory.on the flip-side, the grid divisions for pos warfare make it much more viable for that new power to defend their pos's using devious tactics. even if they still can't win, they might make it much more costly."
"what if the refueling occurred when the defending alliance wanted it to. that way if the refueling satellite was destroyed, the odp shield would run out of fuel when they want it to.a single blob could not defeat this system unless it was focused only at the main points which should be a viable way to destroy the system anyway."
"what i mean is, unless the goals are simultaneous and on separate grids, you get huge blobs. yes it's ridiculous to go fly after a little tiny target with a huge blob, but basically that's what will happen.only way to generate interesting fights is either with rorquals on either end of an asteroid field with veld, gneiss, and arkonor... anyway, there's a reason i'm pushing for simultaneous goals.since a big part of lag is overview lag, i'm pushing specifically for simultaneous goals across multiple grids."
"the my big question for you is why do you oppose 'blobs'? there are two different reasons but personally i think both arguments are fundamentally wrong.the first of course is to discourage huge fleet fights. most proponents of this don't like the fact that if group a has more pilots of similar skill than group b, group a will win the fight. but this is a truth that goes beyond the context of eve. sure small fleets should have an impact, but a small fleet should always lose to a bigger fleet of similar ships.second, the lag-based argument against blobs i think is wrong based on principle. designing a game mechanic so that it limits stress on the server isn't the right approach to solving the problem in my opinion. you just have to do the best to improve the network capabilities. the fact that the server has a hard time on large single grid fights shouldn't be the sole reason that you're forcing fights to occur on multiple grids."
"this is the heart of the matter i think. the sovereignty system should discourage absentee landlordism, and the way the current system links linear levels of sov with important abilities like the jump bridge results in alliance asserting that they \"need\" incredible defender advantages to maintain blanket sovereignty lest they lose one vital ability.really i think all of these benefits should be completely separate. if you want a jump bridge or a cynojammer in a system, you should just be able to build it, and it should be able to be attacked without having to spam or siege pos to do so. while the stargate control portion of my proposal was linked to the invulnerability of tactical arrays and pos, the main point was that the three elements could be established seperately if desired, and that having them work together made them stronger.i think sentry guns on gates could be effective and balanced, given the proper rules - make them cheap enough that they can be reasonably destructable, make them only fire on pilots with aggression towards the alliance that anchored them, and limit how many can be anchored on a gate. then they'd be a valuable assist for defenders protecting their territory, but also attackable infrastructure if the defender isn't around, and an alliance could maintain an engineer corps to keep their sentry gun emplacements operable.but the key point here is that the concrete benefits a territory holding alliance receives should be based on actions appropriate to the type of benefit. outpost construction would be rightly based on having pos infrastructure to support it, but cynojammers and jump bridges being based on how many pos you have in system is silly, especially because they grant such a huge advantage in the subcapital arena without having to set foot in that arena in the first place."
"i don't oppose bringing more ships and thereby having more muscle, but a giant fleet battle with lots of lag, overview or server-side, negates to a great extent whether or not blob a is more skilled than blob b. when dictors are dropping bubbles 200km off target, the fight is almost down to luck of the draw. it's this randomness that i'm against.i would prefer there to be simultaneous objectives across several grids as a method of increasing the impact skill and tactics has on the outcome of a battle. on face value, it seems a lot harder to manage a fight effectively when it's happening in multiple locations, but welcome to the real world. a multi-grid battle will cause fc's of true genius to rise to the top, far outstripping the capabilities of larger groups with less effective command.as we are conditioned to the game as it is, we look at a multi-grid fight like \"but! but!!!! i don't want to divide my forces!!!!!!\" this is symptomatic of the oversimplified field of combat we've inherited from the early days of eve. those who can adapt will move forward. those with real cunning will have more decisive impact. in the end warfare will be much more exciting and we will all benefit."
"how warm are you to the idea of sub-cap gangs being able to reinforce a pos and thus exposing the benefits gained through sov to maintaining de-facto control over the mid-size gang warfare?"
"i totally agree, but the solution must be by improving server capability or by streamlining client-server communications. changing a game mechanic because the server can't handle it and designing the new one around server capabilities is wrong, and i hope ccp would agree it is against their morals as game designers."
"they can. bs fleets are entirely sub-cap and can destroy a pos."
"if sovereignty is independent from the ability to have pos anchorables, then the only benefit point of holding sov is having your name on a map and a small fuel benefit."
"it's a fundamental reality that has no workaround. sending ship data is an n-body problem. if there are n ships, you have to send n ships locations to n clients. thus telling clients simply how to display what is going on will scale load exponentially. performance increases naturally will gain less and less real increase and get harder to achieve.a battle that happens across several grids or a battle that happens in several systems between mid-size gangs trying to ninja-reinforce pos's won't seem any less epic, especially when you listen to several teams in alliance chat all encountering and dealing with their own challenges while you struggle to make headway at your own objective."
"so there can be no fundamental objection to a process that can already take place score one for towers getting reinforced via the arrays. not that you ever said you were against.wondering when i can win your thumbs up on csm"
"but as a defender i wouldn't be stupid enough to separate my assets but rather would place them all together. i wouldn't let my arrays be separated to my own forces would be split. and i wouldn't let my pos kill itself if nobody was actually shooting it.furthermore, once the pos shields go down, i would still blob my control tower to protect the armor and structure. so it doesn't even really solve the problem."
"no. it makes no sense to me that a pos go into reinforced without being directly attacked. it's capabilities can be reduced until all the arrays are destroyed, but the pos itself shouldn't go down."
"you have to remember, i'm not treating the array as a simple add-on structures. the arrays are additional paths to the pos. attackers and defenders have ways to influence what happens at the tower via the arrays. it's not like you're attacking something that's entirely separate from the pos. arrays are indeed part of the pos. if you want to forgo involvement, you simply opt not to install arrays and instead make your towers much more vulnerable to traditional conquest methods. just went through this in detail over in my proposal thread.by having their own stront timers that do not eat all the stront when they come out of reinforced, the arrays should almost never be destroyed. they're essentially a permanent fixture unless you're very lazy with refueling of the pos warfare until the tower is either saved or brought down.from my point of view, such a design characteristic is unavoidable if multi-grid combat is to be a goal. if the objectives can be treated as isolated, they will get blobbed one by one. they have to have some protection stront timer is like a time-out from total annihilation until the fight is completely over. they have to have ways of being brought back into the fight to stay relevant.since bandwidth for fleet battles is an n-body problem, i believe multi-grid combat should be a goal."
"to be honest that is preferable to gaining some of these huge tactical advantages simply through pos warfare. in particular the ability to drop a huge gang on top of an enemy roaming force using the jump bridge is very powerful, and all the more so because long term the roaming subcap gang can't attack the infrastructure that makes the jump bridge possible in a reasonable way.but to your point, there is also the capital shipyards and outpost benefits that ought still to be related to pos construction. not to mention the normal functions of pos."
"forgive me for continuing to derail, but what do you think of arrays as a requisite for jumpbridge/cyno deployment?this would expose an alliance's infrastructure for dealing with a roaming threat to that roaming threat. since a gang of domi's can reinforce a pos using arrays in a reasonable frame of time, it's immediately possible for a successful roaming campaign to divide an alliance and deny them easy transport if they can't deal with even a small gang."
"what i'm saying is that holding sov should prevent others from deploying cyno jammers and jump bridges in your space. you have to be able to restrict the build up of enemy infrastructure with some sort of defense. that's why pos works."
"naturally it would take time to respond to a small gang, so as a defender i would make sure such an important piece of logistics would be amply defended so that it takes a long time to disable.sure there could be more requisites to having a cynojammer or jupmbridge, but i still don't like your reasons for why they have to be off grid. the meta-reason for lag is in my mind the wrong reason, and the in-game reason is too artificial for my liking."
"what i'm saying is that holding sov should prevent others from deploying cyno jammers and jump bridges in your space. you have to be able to restrict the build up of enemy infrastructure with some sort of defense. that's why pos works.under the system i proposed with stargate control as an element, you could not attack array-style anchored outside of pos jump bridge or cynojammers without punching a hole in the local stargate network. what i found ideal about a system like that was that stargate control was an indicator of local activity and presence, unlike pos construction, and at the same time it allowed you to move portions of the tactical infrastructure outside of the pos to separate them from pos warfare. i think it's a good example of how a layered system is superior to the one trick pony of pos warfare. in a layered system you have greater flexibility both defensively and offensively.what it keeps coming back to is the absentee landlordism of straight up pos construction. it conveys powers beyond the scope of what it deserves."
"artificial??!?!!? gravity tide capture is an amazing source of energyit's not really all that far-fetched. basically there are a lot of processes in space, even simple ones like solar wind that, if harvested across a long distance using a field established between to objects separated by a good distance, can provide a large amount of high-quality energy.the meta-reason is 100% sound. either do something that's not built around pos's that requires multiple simultaneous objectives or give me thumbs upthere is simply no way around the fact that 1000 pilots on one grid means 1000 ships being sent data on 1000 other ships. i said earlier that anything is possible with software. not 100% true in this case. no matter what you do, a large fleet battle on one grid is going to mean a huge amount of bandwidth necessary. it gets worse as battles scale up, so there is no room for eve to have more players in the same space in the future.without something, some game mechanic or piece of infrastructure, to eventually manage multi-grid fights in a way that is meaningful, the life of eve will slowly run out. this is about lifetime of the gang. the devs have to recognize it. it's inevitable and must be dealt with."
"my pos runs on fuel because in a sandbox game i don't want arrays if they decentralize my vulnerable assets. if the gravity tides only produce energy, i'd rather use an alternative source and pay for it. i'm against changing game mechanics because of meta-level problems.my sovereignty proposal has nothing to do with a single pos. it is all about orbital structures.eventually even the multi-grid fights will get too big. you would have to keep adding layers upon layers."
"i will say i don't like one relationship:pos moons are sov tools and moon-mining tools.separation of moon mining and sov i would like. say...a series of battle stations out in lagrange points. you use them to control the ability to field pos's. thus the de-facto ruler of the system determines who uses the resources, but without the fuel-hogging pos spam crap getting needlessly entangled with others' wishes to produce the fruits of the system.i have supported something like this in the past.in a utopian feature request world this is what we talk about in discussions like this eh? i would go for this:1 pos's are infrastructure you deploy for economic purposes to perform the rites of building supercaps and harvesting moon goop.2 tactical arrays are the multi-grid battle coordination devices that enforce a need to be very quick and able to manage conflicts at several locations. they are also the basis of infrastructure used to hold and defend the system.3 player owned infrastructure that can be granted by the holder of tactical arrays and allow occupants of a system to exploit the system's riches in a more passive manner without giving them the strategic capabilities of the station and tactical arrays.yes, feudalism at its best. you can grant services to your serfs at drive-by windows in the castle wall. will raise 0.0 population and improve 0.0 life. moons mining will no longer be sov-holding pos related affair. pos spam at worthless moons will no longer be necessary."
"stargate control becomes a game of tennis. furthermore, your system prevented any sort of imperial control, where pilots fought on front lines and colonies are left to themselves on their existing defenses. colonies can include systems with valuable moons and isolated systems as part of a jump bridge network."
"perfect. include this in the orbital structure idea where oribtal defense platforms and planetary defense headquaters be deployed at lagrange points.pos are infrastructure.planetary control determines sovereignty."
"tennis, ping pong, etc are poor analogies for what would actually happen. defenders would only have to respond to actual attacks on their territory - a perfectly just scenario. an expanding power can simply choose to ignore contesting of their interior stargates unless they are in a key system, and return to shore up their network at a more convenient time. i think giving a free pass to the unattended interior of an empire simplo because it is inconvenient for a territorial power to bother to defend it is very wrong.what it comes down to is that i think a territorial power should have to respond to small scale attacks within their territory, in the same way any real life power would. the current system allows them to ignore their territory, resulting in huge swaths of uninhabited but somehow claimed space. that should change."
"to think so many game issues could have been fixed this term if jade had gone with his original plan to play hello kitty online instead of run for csm."
"you know shakespeare makes a much worse raep joke in the first scene of romeo and juliet but you don't see people condemning him as a major cause for corruption in society."
"i play eve on extreme mode in jita!"
"okay, so a few know you were created to represent the player base & forward ideas/concerns to ccp yet i have some questions for every one of you on the council.how long have you been involved with the game ? have you been here through most of the major changes ?what race of ships can you pilot ?what have you installed in place to make sure all proposals put forward are looked at in an un-biased manner ?what guarantees do we have that any changes are not purely beneficial to only yourselves or your current corp / alliance ?what is your main bulk of eve time spent doing ? i.e. pvp, pve, manufacturing, invention, etcthis may have already been asked before & if so, why wasn't it stickied?!? and why am i interested in knowing the above ? because this will help myself and others know from what experience you are drawing from when having discussions or putting ideas forward.i look forward to your replies"
"most of this info can be found in our campaign threads :phow long have you been involved with the game ? have you been here through most of the major changes ?i've been actively playing since january 2007. and yes, i know this makes me the 'youngest' player on the csm by a large margin even. i have not been here for some of the major changes but i have talked a lot about it with people who were. i find the way eve has developed and changed very interesting.what race of ships can you pilot ?all t1 frigs and cruisers, and most caldari non-capital ships.what have you installed in place to make sure all proposals put forward are looked at in an un-biased manner ?csm members keep pretty close eyes on eachother and watch out for bias that may occur. what guarantees do we have that any changes are not purely beneficial to only yourselves or your current corp / alliance ?the fact that the csm is made up out of very different players and player factions. even if something would be highly beneficial to my corp, if it isnt good for the game the rest can still block it and i would too.what is your main bulk of eve time spent doing ? i.e. pvp, pve, manufacturing, invention, etchelping out in eve university, and recently a lot of low sec exploration."
"what she said.there is a ton of information available on those threads, although i did notice a few weeks ago that links to campaign pages are in a few instances no longer working. however, spending even 2 minutes researching a csm member should get you all the answers you could ever need, and more.i suspect the reason the info isn't stickied is because most people who have been paying attention to the csm read those threads at the time of the election when we were deciding who to vote for.it annoyed me in the campaigns and it still annoys me now - lazy people asking generic questions addressed to all the reps, when the info is already there if they could only be bothered to look for it.ah - please flame me for posting on a thread intended for csm answers when i'm not on the csm. it will make me cry, destroy all my stuff and ragequit. well done."
"<posted out of thread>"
"give me back my arazu"
"maybe you can add a [ - #] to those items which have already been brought to ccp. so it would show up like [issue] alliances and factional warfare [ - 1]"
"/signed"
"does anyone know when ccp is meeting about the ship. i here there are going to this month. but does anone know the date?"
"1.0"
"fixit."
"signed"
"yep, supported"
"signed"
".4 has no gain to it at all, except for pirates that camp the gates for noobs that don't know the difference in security status yet"
"supported!"
"if concord are not going to save it because some battleships are attacking it then there is no reason to have charters..even if it's not \"moon poo\" minable, it shouldn't need chaters."
"bump"
"this proposed nerf is the best thing that's come to eve since evar. if this nerf doesn't go ahead the pvp factor of eve will be pwned beyond any control, it will spiral to extinction. nerf nanos 4tw."
"as a crow pilot, i endorse this topic."
"i support this topic"
"againstavoid changing the rules to a game after it is in play. poor gamemanship."
"against the \"doomsday\" approach to patching. nerfing polycarbs and snakes would have been enough."
"against nano nerf"
"aganst"
"against"
"against"
"agin'"
"good idea, these would be great in fw complexes that restrict players to frig sized ships, maybe not so usefull outside of them."
"i agree its a good idea."
"yes, supported"
"more please :pa csm opinion would be nice too, thx.psdon't forget to check the \"support this idea\" chechbox, we already missed one"
"sounds good to me."
"why not, i'll bring it up. consider it on the agenda right now."
"yes!"
"/supportedalso, the guy above me stole my avatar"
"cloaks are fine the way they are. why do people insist on saying they are overpowered, when they were introduced pre-nerfed to hell and back and haven't changed? imho, if you can't catch a cloaker in your space, then you shouldn't be in nullsec. a bubble, and an instalock 'ceptor and the cloaker dies. simple, easy, gaurenteed. i've done it, and can do it. i use both cloaks and i hunt cloakers, it's not that hard, you just don't want to have to put the effort into it.for example...... if the guy you are hunting is in a raven, in the belt, at say.... 60km, he sees you, cloaks, he can't warp, can't lock, can't reload, can't activate mods, and can't hardly move. all you have to do, is set a course in his general direction, and if you are in a ceptor, you should be able to decloak him as he's only capable of approximately 25-30m/s.so, to say again..... there is nothing wrong with cloaks. they are just fine the way they are and they work just as intended.regards, maabuss."
"an interesting idea, i'll see if i can work it into the final document :"
"edit: i missed your pdf link before; you addressed several points i was going to make.very good ideas. a couple of thoughts:regarding bounties, there needs to be a way to prevent the hunted player from interfering with or even benefit from the arrangement. for example, i'd want to make sure that the bounty payoff plus insurance was not enough to make it worthwhile for the hunted player to benefit by suiciding themselves to his own alt. to this end, the bounty payment amount per kill should be worth no more than about half of the full insurance value of the target, and the the maximum insurance payment for the destroyed ship should be reduced by the same amount. in the case of t2/faction ships, this should probably be bumped to several times the full insurance amount. note that modules need not be included in the ship valuation, since the hunter will get about half of the modules as loot; treat this as a bonus incentive.some thought needs to be given to how large a bounty can be set. the current limit of one kill is too little, and there's incentive for the hunted to sacrifice a cheap ship to cancel the bounty. but if killing the hunted is more or less unlimited, as in your plan, then there is potential for griefing. perhaps the limit should be a multiple of the value of the ship loss that created the kill right to begin with.regarding the merc contracts, this is an interesting idea. it might be worthwhile to simplify this idea to a contract type filed by either the merc or the entity trying to hire mercs that automatically files for and funds the wardec and ensures the payment of contracted amounts, similar to your plan but without the requirement that the hiring entity be involved directly in a war. another interesting question relating to this is whether or not the contract should be 'public' once accepted..."
"yes."
"signed"
"this"
"i dont know why ccp think it is acceptable to rise prices when they still have ****ty laggy battles in eve imo fix the lag, then rise the prices not the otherway around"
"supported! all said tho, nano-ships tend to pop very satisfactorily when you can slow them down enough so weapons actually hit them.... i think the wolfpack should still be a valid tactic...but hello? 22.5km/s with a top end read, officer setup in a claw? that seems a \"little\" obscene to me...."
"i support the nano-nerf."
"been waiting for this since i started eve. can't wait for it to be implimented, lol. and as for other issues, such as lag, it is virtually impossible to eliminate all lag from an online game, and as such, eve has performed exceptionally well from the other mmo's i've played and tested and such. granted they do have issues that need to be resolved, like un-nerfing torps, or reducing the nerf on them b/c they are now useless. but thats for another post... but i would gladly welcome this feature.*supported*regards, maabuss"
"when abulation is out by all that is holy make it be this year planetary fligt would be awesome if you could actualy do something in there not just flykilling npc's of course, but blowing up planetary npc bases that shoot back at you, or blowing your enemy alliance's base to pieces while it launches fighters at u would be realy nicealso why not be able to \"dock\"land in your friendly planetary bases and walk around in it as ambulation charplanets also open up a whole new form of industry, i bet there are more elements then just atmosfaric gases and cadmium on those thingsmaybe there are uranuim to be mined using planetare mining facility thingy and then brought up to pos to be enriched, enriched uranium ofc being the stuff u put in pos"
"lalala ankh's gone mad!okay, not really, this is just a compilation of all the creative garbage floating around in my head, but why not post it and hope it will distil into something useful? don't take it too seriously, but instead see if you can salvage some useful parts of it and incorporate it into different things. if you think it is promising, well i'd love to hear that too of course.agents in 0.0 alliance space!surely it must have been a high-sec carebear coming up with this kind of rambling, but read on anyway. there are outposts floating around in 0.0, so why no agents? wouldn't it be possible to have agents from the npc factions settle on these stations, and provide means to get unique standing combinations and special loyalty point rewards? why couldn't alliances work towards building relations with the npc factions, and have the agent standing payouts reflect this? so if the goons would have built up ties with the amarr and minmatar but are somehow hostile to gallente and ore, the standings of people running missions for goon agents would be shifted accordingly. roleplayers would love this, and if cva for example would be nice to amarr and at least neutral to gallente i would personally prefer to visit 0.0 and run missions for them instead of my regular high-sec agents.but enough of that, it gets better. what about... player created missions. eve is supposed to be a player-driven universe, thus player action should affect the environment in a meaningful way. agents could act as mediator for alliances, and hand out rewards for actions set by the alliance command. i'm sure some of you have played ultima online, where players could hire npc vendors to put in their house to sell stuff on their behalf, well, that type of facilitator npc.missions types could include:* scout: obtaining the locations of x poses belonging to enemy corp y agent would handle a database of known enemy pos locations to this purpose* raid: get pos x in system y in reinforced mode* siege: the destruction of pos x in system y* search and destroy: the destruction of x enemy ships* haul: move items from x to y* acquire: gather x minerals and deliver them at station y* produce: produce specific item x y times and deliver them at station z* defend: ensure that poses in system x remain unmolested for y hours* patrol: score x kills in specific systems only* escort: make sure ship x gets from y to z unmolestedalliances could specify the reward for players undertaking these efforts, and even reward standing, loyalty points and consequently set up their own lp shop, and yet to be implemented things such as medals and rank points. i believe this would result in more player initiative and, when the alliance chooses to open up the agents which can also have standing requirements, the chance for mercenaries and opportunists to participate in 0.0 warfare. it also provides a direct measurable way to determine how much a player has been contributing to the alliance.of course these missions could also be tied into the sovereignty system, with repeated successes making a system vulnerable like factional warfare, and a dynamic objective spawning that will ultimately result in the conquest of the system. like \"blockade: secure all stargates in this system for x hours\".okay that was it for now. i also had some ideas with players owning small anchorable structures and being able to store small quantities of stuff there and call it home, and also have small production facilities to produce trade goods such as soil, livestock, holoreels and that sort of stuff, and that these trade goods would be consumed by the outposts, improving their quality, which results in them looking shinier in ambulation with more bars and other facilities opening up, and also more and better npc agents being attracted. feel free to expand on this."
"i like the idea of player made missions.. but they are more like contracts really... for example. if i despise an allaince enough, i could basically put a bounty on their head, but being more specific, like kill x amount of ships 'mineral value' so they dont suicide shuttle and put up a cash prize sorta thing for the first 'group/corp/alliance' to accomplsh it... and maybe some reputation points or something...also with the possibility of transferred killrights.. you can just pawn it off to the highest bidder sorta thing maybe... i dunno.. too many details, and a lot of work would have to be done to implement it...but. it would make this game damn fun for mercs and the like"
"i honestly dont care about the type of mission but something needs to be done about npc sov being massively better than true 0.0 and this is a step in the right direction"
"how is ccp screwing over hardcore players, by not implementing this? the game have been around for 5 years or so, and the proposed changes by the op haven't been in the game. yet there are hardcore players as it is. there are still l3 and l4 agents in lowsec, just as there are l3 and l4 agents in highsec. the onlyone getting screwed by these changes are those players that don't want to be forced to low or nullsec to do l3 or l4 missions, not those that are already in low or nullsec. also i keep seeing how hardcore players are being screwed over by 'farmers' and how these players bunk all the players that isn't doing what they are doing into the 'farmers' category. someone that is casual about this game and run 2 or 3 missions per session isn't a farmer. it would be like saying that the hardcore players are farming kills by sitting at a gatecamp, players are farming isk/loot/whatever by being online 10+ hours a day. neither is true, as the way people play the game is different for everyone."
"i'd love it, personally, however the remaining high sec populace that did not rage-quit will either mine or whine."
"terrible ideano reason to make the 0.0 spaceholding megaalliances even more rich and the other peoples cut off from lvl4 missions.u have missions there. if u want to have more lvl4 u can move free to the empire.u have moons for mining, high end minerals in belts, good ratting possibilities, officer spawns, faction spawns, valuable plexes......if u dont like the way than give up your space and go back to empire"
"i prefer the suggestion of dynamic agent quality to break up the laggy mission hubs but there's a gross imbalance between individual isk making opportunities in 0.0, lowsec and highsec, and so any suggestion of correcting this is worthy of support.fix ur game ccp"
"great idea.....if you want to make isk buying more of a problem, reduce ccps subscriptions, reduce ccps profits, and make eve less appealing to new players.ps poasting in a thread started by someone in the same alliance as the people that got suicide ganking nerfed and made macroers and isk sellers safer."
"an hour? you really should stop exaggerating malc. it makes you look like a liar."
"not supported.you are forgetting that the casual mission runner, does only one or two l4 missions a day if he does l4's at all, as most of them seem to be doing l3's because l4's are too hard for them and earn 1-5 million per hour, not the exaggerated 20 million figures some people claim they can squeeze out of l4's.missions are not that much of a goldmine unless you got a marauder or other ship with several billions in fittings, and that's only a tiny fraction of the players.i am all for bigger mission rewards in low-sec/0.0 though, as they currently are not worth the effort, see faction warfare missions, i don't see anyone doing those either."
"give that i can - and i don't care what you say, it's both true and unexceptional - make 20-25m in an hour, buying a 16-18m isk implant is not challenging."
"why would people who can only run 1 mission a day be bothered about per-diem mission limits?"
"that would not necessarily be a concern for this type of player, but the op's proposal to effectively remove level 3 and 4 agents from high-sec alltogether would be problematic for them."
"why?"
"you mean effort and risk/reward.i use a g 15 so have reduced keystrokes for weapons and play ,on average, 3 hours a day.level iv missions v 0.0 space.level iv missions:prerequisites: standings to use best agents- 3 months effort: number of keystrokes and mouseclicks in 1 hour of level iv missioning.includes talking to agent, undocking, targetting, activating weapons, boosters/reps, withdrawing drones etc- 196risk: assuming you are paying attention- lag or desync.reward using best level 4 agent in minmattar space without loot and salvage and 1k lp = 1 million isk- 29.8 million isk0.0 rattingprerequisites: apply to corp- 30 secondseffort: number of keystrokes and mouseclicks in 1 hour of 0.0 ratting.includes undocking, targetting, activating weapons, withdrawing drones, boosters/reps etc- 115risk: assuming you are paying attention- nonereward from triple 1.1 million bs spawn in 0.0 alliance space without loot and salvage: 30 millionmore effort, more risk and about the same rewards? what needs balancing?just realised the op is proposing making it harder for players to earn isk by increasing the grind and making it more risky. this is not a 0.0v hisec thread. sorry."
"to give you ccp's ideas on this:that was by wrangler, incidentally....."
"ratting, you first have to be in a system with true sec good enough to spawn triple 1.1m or better battle ships, chain them in each belt, wait for respawns, hope people don't mess up your chains, if you have more than one person ratting in the system you have to hope you get a belt with rats in them. missions, you can do it with a raven easily you do not have to worry about much. they can service as many people as have standings that can you them. you can get the standing quite fast with the skills and the cosmos turn ins."
"you do not need a marauder or a faction ship to do the missions you can do them with a normal raven and best named or tech two gear. they have insignificant risk compared to the reward."
"i disagree with this proposal, though i agree with the basic premise. the problem, as i see it, is that low-sec offers no incentive to draw population unless you are in fw or are a pirate. miners and mission-runners suffer enormous risk for marginal if any benefit. so instead of nerving the stuffing out of empire dwellers, i'd like to see low-sec earnings buffed.for mining, increase the value of ore in low sec systems. instead of adding some flat increase which may or may not be enough to offer the desired incentive, implement a dynamic adjustment. for example, each downtime, the server checks low-sec belts against their capacity, each belt that is relatively untouched over 90% of capacity has a few higher-grade 'roids added to the belt -- which last until mined, but don't respawn except by the mechanic above.for missions, dramatically increase the adjustment to mission rewards based on system security. add a small possibility of faction spawns in low-sec missions. eliminate the drone loophole to probing mission-runners. change the npc ai so that interlopers share aggro from mission spawns to prevent the mission-runner from being penalized if attacked in the mission."
"i think low sec and 0.0 need a boost low sec like you said has no real reason, and 0.0 for mining is not as good as people think because of the massive value veld has over many other ores. also ratting is not as good as mission running, and you can not run missions from outposts so people don't even have the option, its mining, or ratting and neither of them are as good or reliable."
"supportin"
"i would like the csm's to address the issue in which probes lose ownership.under the current system, all exploration, recon, and survey probes lose ownership under the following situations.1 dock up2 leave the system3 exiting or quitting eve4 disconnection5 very rare lag out but not disconnect in which the server thinks you have disconnected, you have engaged the emergency warp but the client maintains a connection.6 client crash7 downtime.one, two, three, and seven are not the issue, however four, five and six are.one of the things eve has, that i do enjoy is exploration. in some systems you have to deploy upward of ten probes to cover the entire system. these probes can cost anywhere from 5,000 to 15,000 isk. these are just exploration probes, if you are surveying a system for moon mining you can deploy upward of 50 probes if you're fast enough each costing between 90,000 and 195,000 isk.the loss due to technical fault on ccp's behalf is not recoverable. after a petition i was told by a gm that there is no record of the probes launched in the system. so ccp is unable to reimburse the loss of probes.under the current system you could lose anywhere between 5,000 isk and 10,000,000 isk depending on what you're doing. for ccp to say \"sorry we have no record of that.\" is just not acceptable.forget about the cost for a second, consider the other factor here... time..it doesn't matter what type of probing you are doing, it takes time to find whatever you're doing. moon surveying can take hours for a single system. exploration can take just as long, recon probe can take under a minute. so we're talking about the loss of time as well.we now have two scales.5,000 isk to 10,000,000 isk60 seconds to three hours.we've all seen how ccp wants to incorporate probing more, for faction wars, to get complexes/ded space where faction and officer items are. all the way to building t2 items. however this simple but highly annoying bug doesn't make people want to spend the time and effort.moon probes are probably meant to be an isk sink for ccp. however with the risk of losing near 10 million isk multiple times, people will not use the gaze survey probes, they'll use the quest survey probes.people want to explore, but they sure don't want to have to keep on deploying between four and ten probes every time the server chooses to boot you off.now for the last piece... when you get disconnected, the probes remain in space, they do not disappear. exploration probes will remain for over an hour if you disconnect when deploying. so now you not only have the lost ownerships probe taking up cpu/database time, you also have the new probe you where forced to deploy again.once in a system with a lot of lag, i had 42 probes deployed... but could only use 7 of them. thirty five objects in the database sitting there for an hour doing nothing just taking up space because i was disconnected five times. i was even unable to destroy them because i was not the owner.this needs to be fixed. if you emergency warp, your probes should remain your until you either destroy them or they expire, or from the list above one, two, three, and six happens."
"no record of probes launched? lets get this fixed. i have yet to go into probes but its a field i would like to start in the next 3-6 months."
"has ccp ever released a schematic detailing the components, interconnects and topology of their server farm? perhaps if they could provide more details some of the smart people that play eve and have it experience could offer \"advice\"?would that be asking too much? let the people who suffer from the lag help find the solution, something other than \"keep out of that system\"."
"yes!"
"check the last 20 devblogs okay well not the last 20 but the last few"
"anything to make commodities more useful/playable."
"/signed."
"being able to free slaves would be fantastic. and, of course, those ebil amarrians should probably get an enslave button, too."
"free the slaves"
"can't believe this reached page #toomuch..."
"text goes here"
"this would really just be a way for quicker access to certain parts of the ui info windows, convo's, etc. so no commands like /shoot, /follow, /warp, etc."
"this idea is 100% /signed."
"awesome idea"
"solid arguments very well thought out."
"anything that makes each and every module and rig in the game a viable alternative is fantastic!this also should apply to modules like a shield recharger since it is almost always better to simply add shield extenders and flux coils or pdu's than waste a mid slot on something less useful when the mid's are the most valuable slot to a shield tank."
"very good idea. would take a lot of thought to avoid the same thing that this is meant to fix, but with attention and care, would be amazing./signed"
"we've already had a load of threads about mission running but this issue has not yet been raised, so i'll do that this week.for those that have not yet read this, there was a dev blog on mission running a while ago, it is an interesting read and provides for a little discussion.there are a several issues with missions that get echoed in many threads and the discussions in-game and the emails sent to me, so i'll raise them here.1 missions need to be made more dynamic and unpredictable2 mission pay-out in low-sec and 0.0 needs improvement3 module loot has a negative impact on the economy by making t1 production obsolete and injecting too many minerals into the economy4 missions in factional warfare require improvements5 mining missions require improvements6 agents are static, resulting in overloaded mission hubs, desire to have agent quality made dynamic7 level 4 missions in their current form do not belong in high-security space8 standing is being monopolized by missions no ways to get standing outside of mission running, with the exception of fw standingmissions need to be made more dynamic and unpredictablecurrent mission design is static and repetitive. players can look up the mission summary on various websites, and know exactly what to expect. while the problem will be alleviated somewhat with the introduction of new missions in the empyrian age 1.1 patch and beyond, which causes players to get the same missions less frequently, the problem remains that the player will eventually know what to expect.the solution to these problems would be to introduce dynamic content. missions could be pieced together from random elements, have random ship spawns and variable objectives. another solution would be random bonus content that goes beyond the mission objective. the mission would be completed, but like in the angel extravaganza mission, the player has the option to go through yet another gate to get to a bonus room. these bonuses would appear randomly in missions, and will not appear in every mission.mission pay-out in low-sec and 0.0 needs improvementcurrently, not many people run missions in low-sec/0.0 because the rewards are not that much better than high-sec while there are often significant risks attached, perceived or not. i think that the mission rewards could get a positive adjustment. also, if dynamic missions are implemented as above, then certain ship spawns or bonuses could be exclusive to low-sec/0.0."
"module loot has a negative impact on the economy by making t1 production obsolete and injecting too many minerals into the economyat first, i was all \" don't mess with mission income \" towards this point, but i have done a lot of reading and research on this topic, and it cannot be denied that income from missions is much better than from mining minerals yourself. this invalidates the miner profession. in addition, due to the looted modules, the production of most t1 modules is unprofitable.while i do not think that reducing mission income is a good move, due to the fact that many mission runners are just casual players that already have a hard time making isk, it should be possible to shift mission income away from modules, and instead deliver either more loyalty points or through items such as dogtags or other token drops that can be traded in for various rewards.missions in factional warfare require improvementsseveral issues with these particular missions. ship spawns inside these missions are often bigger than the class of ship that is allowed entry, making them quite difficult to complete in medium-fitted ships and flying anything expensive generally is not a good idea in fw space. they are also often quite a distance away from the agent, risking gatecamps, and it is generally easy for the opposing faction to intrude and disrupt these missions due to them being visible on the overview and the difficult nature of the mission itself.due to these difficulties, it is impossible to do these missions without a group of players. however, the rewards of the missions are extremely low, and even more so if they have to be shared by a whole group. the penalty for failure is harsh however, while the risk of failing is extremely high.in short, these missions need to be reduced in difficulty, have an increase in reward and/or have the penalty for failure lowered significantly.mining missions require improvementsthese missions are extremely boring and yield significantly less income than mining the veldspar outside, and thus need a boost in reward and be made somewhat more interesting. not much needs to be said i think.agents are staticvarious suggestions have been made in this aspect. one is to adjust agent quality based on the amount of mission runners knocking on the agent's door each day, so that out-of-the-way agents eventually offer more compared to the ones in crowded hubs like motsu. this mechanic would also immediately yield improvements to low-sec mission agents, since these are not frequented by players.the holy grail would of course be to have agents appear and disappear based on events in game, such as backstory and the result of player efforts in factional warfare, which would bring a dynamic universe one step closer."
"level 4 missions in their current form do not belong in high-security spacewith this issue, it is hard to determine if this stems from whining and intollerance towards a certain playstyle by a vocal minority or actual valid game concerns. i think that a lot of valid concerns will be addressed through points 2, 3 and 6. i personally do not think that elimination of level 4 missions from high-sec alltogether will be a valid solution, and that doing so will not accomplish the goal of bringing more people into low-sec, as this type of player will either resort to other income in high-sec mining, lower level missions or quit the game alltogether. i think the way to address this is by giving players incentives to go to low-sec, such as factional warfare, and increased profibility there instead of these attempts to force people out.standing is being monopolized by missionsthere currently is no way to get standing outside of running missions. with the introduction of factional warfare however, it was made possible to acquire standing through the capture of fw sites. it would be nice to see more of these systems put in place so players can engage in different activities to raise their standings.anything i missed?"
"general announcement 1:just to clear it up guys, i do not necessarily support all these positions myself most notably the one to remove all l4's from high-sec. however, these are mission-related issues that are repeatedly brought up on the forum and in game. i could easily have painted a one-sided picture only featuring happy dancing carebear mission runners and without taking into account the industry, mining and even low-sec hugger side of things, but in doing that i'd ignore the fact that as csm i have to be open to all aspects and work towards making eve as a whole more enjoyable, not just attempt to boost my own playstyle.this is also how i came to the conclusion that the mineral input from mission loot is a bit out-of line compared to miners. all aspects of eve always are tied-in to other aspects, just like a real-life economy. however, to make it even more complicated, i do not think that nerfing mission income is the right approach if we keep casual players in mind. that is why i think the solution may be found in shifting mission income to other sources. i'm open to suggestions as to what these sources might be, i already suggested loyalty points and tags as examples, and in dynamic mission content there might be a chance for a rarer module drop, or rare decorative crappolia to put on your desk in ambulation, whatever, just thinking of things, you should do the same. moving all level 4's to low-sec, in my opinion hell no, never. however, this issue has been brought up many times, and apparently there are players that feel strongly about it. if we get to hear ccp's stance on it, and that does not have to take an afwul lot of time, then at least these vocal players get to hear ccp's stance and reasons. you do not have to support all these items yourself, you have to support the discussion of these items. and as a csm, i do not mind discussing issues i do not necessarily agree on.this thread is to support some discussions on the matter until it's brought up for voting in next week's csm meeting, and i'll try to incorporate your feedback into my document if it gets voted through.thanks."
"i absolutely support the concept that missions need to be made more varied, dynamic and intersting. fewer, smarter rats with more realistic fits using tactics that would encourage players to use fits closer to modern pvp setups, and require greater player skill. would go a long way to solving many of the problems of misison-running.when they require full attention, can't be semi-afk farmed, aren't so easy that a 3 month old in a raven can solofarm them virtually risklessly, aren't utterly predictable then we'll see a lot fewer complaints about them wherever they're located.make pve more challenging, more interesting, more fun and eve overall will be better.edit: and when if mission fit requirements change so that mission ships aren't faction pinatas, then missioners won't have quite so much to fear from pirates. frankly it's crazy that the mission fits required to kill npc pirates leave one defenceless against player pirates. i dislike carebearism in all it's forms, but fairness dictates that they should at least expect a fighting chance."
"grr :"
"smart move. the way i see the situation is that lowsec/0.0 missions need a boost, but not very significant. the thing that needs to be done is nerf lvl4 missions in hisec. some people have clarified out whats the problem. its hisec lvl4 missions has way too high reward vs risk ratio compared to lowsec/0.0 missions.edit: not too high, but higher"
"mission rewards were not a problem early last week, and have only been a problem sinse the suicide gankers and their speed lover allys made them a problem. how a csm can not see this i dont know, but for sure bandwagons spring to my mind."
"i support making the mission system more dynamic.as the demand for missions from an agent, the potential reward for the missions should diminish in accordance to the laws of supply and demand. it stands to reason that as the high priority missions are completed, an agent would have to hand out the less lucrative ones. equally, if the availability of people willing to take on missions is low, then agent would have to improve the reward to entice pilots."
"save it, mate. if you don't have anything contructive to add to this thread then go troll gd."
"depends, there is nothing wrong with knowing the content of a mission, some are still very hard mordus headhunters, wc, ae bonus room, in the midst of deadspace 1/5, enemies abound i think it is 5/5, not sure, etc.if missions are made random, this makes it impossible to determine if a mission is 1. possible and 2. worth doing, which makes it a particular problem for less skilled chars or people with worse ships/fittings.having to use pvp setups: no, just no. some people don't like nano***ging everything and having to do 3478234723894789m/s, and pvp setups have such crap tanks that it would make harder missions impossible without a blob.meh, whatever. doubt this will cause people to go to lowsec and run missions, but even if one person does and then gets killed by pirates it will reduce their whining, so do it.i am for removing t1 loot, it is a huge pain to loot due to large size, and then have to sort through it to reprocess. remember than named loot only comes from missions though.i am not a rper, i couldn't care less about fw, do whatever.yes.you're right, there are plenty of other mmos around, eve has plenty of problems aready, making it unenjoyable too will just mean people will find another.mining missions. faction warfare for the rpers.no support due to above points.edit for formatting and a correction."
"maybe yea i should, it was a bit of a an inconvenient truth and as we know truth and politics dont belong with each other.ok constructive side of things.just change recyle rates on dropped modules, maybe the npc used them to hard so they will lose 50% materials.lvl4 missions in high is okthe high level missions are already in low, but lets make it that on lvl4,s you have to pay concord a % of pay to help protecton the basis concord were payback, but the speed they arrive now, it can be seen as protection nowyou and on top of that you pay concord a bounty for any ships they kill trying to gank you.base the payment on size of ships aggessing and the size protecting, ie 10k for a riter attacking a raven right up to 1.5million for a raven atacking a raven.then if concord fail the victim get 90% of ship cost and module loss."
"i'd be careful about adjusting mission pay downwards, even in the form of minerals. lp prices are fairly flexible, and tag pricesespecially for pirate tags are massively flexible, so neither is an especially good way of replacing mineral drops. the only commodity big enough to take the jump, from what i can tell, is isk itself, and even that would bring on inflation concerns. also, for the love of god, don't eliminate highsec l4 missions. you'd destroy the game. make lowsec and 0.0 missions better, sure, but highsec should stay as-is, at least in the broad strokes."
"1 missions need to be made more dynamic and unpredictableagreed to an extent, maybe having multiple versions of the same mission and it randomly selects which one you get would be feasible, but everything else you are asking for is pretty hardcore.2 mission pay-out in low-sec and 0.0 needs improvementagreed, the actual isk payment needs to be adjusted minimally, but the lp rewards on offer should be desireable and unobtainable from empire lp stores. give people a reason to use the low sec/0.0 agents.3 module loot has a negative impact on the economy by making t1 production obsolete and injecting too many minerals into the economystandard t1 loot should imho be removed from mission drops and named gear drops should be uncommon in the scale of common->uncommon->rare. why not have the only thing drop as loot other than non-standard gear being faction specific tags that have no value except for cashing in with your agent for isk or specific lp + mission tag items. brings back mining as a profession and makes t1 production viable again. 4 missions in factional warfare require improvementsdon't do it myself, but my spies reliably inform me this would be a good thing.5 mining missions require improvementsthey're boring just like mining is - not sure what the issue is really.6 agents are static, resulting in overloaded mission hubs, desire to have agent quality made dynamicpersonally i think dynamic agent quality is going to fail, for the same reason static complexes did, but i'll be happy to be proved wrong.7 level 4 missions in their current form do not belong in high-security spaceeh? what you talkin' about willis?8 standing is being monopolized by missions no ways to get standing outside of mission running, with the exception of fw standingyou used to be able to buy back standing through bribes...edit: supporting the fact that missions need a look at overall - just don't agree with all the points. prolly shoould split them up into multiple issues."
"i like the idea of diversifying missions to make them more interesting and dynamic instead of the \"you vs blob\" current version. lower the number of npc's, make them harder, make their drops better but remove the basic tech 1 stuff, and raise the bounty's accordingly.missions need to have the highest payout in low-sec. they can be farmed in relative safety in .0 of done correctly and supported by an alliance so making them pay huge sums in .0 wont fix anything, not to mention that most npc corporations are going to have much more interest in making low sec more secure before they concern themselves with .0 so they would offer the most incentive in low-sec.i would love to see roid belts in high sec removed completely and replaced with mining missions only. this would slow the roll of the macro miners because they couldn't park in belt for a few hours at a time. this would direct more miners to low sec and .0 in search of better mining without completely eliminating empire mining. it would also force flippers and gankers to search for prey a little more than just flying from belt to belt."
"fixed it for you."
"while you clearly did made a good points, however i don't dispute any of them.i agree about the income and slightly boring nake asteroids mining. *mission channel know this joke very well* i am still waiting for the mining mission to be add to the index. the reason i ask for adding to index since no one really oppose it other than \"miner\" should stay in asteroid belt. \"rofl\" of course we don't want the income to be too much do we? *cough* macro *cough*mining mission linkage"
"i'm surprised you're willing to take such a bold stance as to even discuss reducing the profitability of level 4's in high-sec. i think that it's an issue that needs to be addressed regardless."
"no l4 missions in high sec, no loot and the price of 60 day gtc is not the best combination for the eve player"
"thumbs up to all."
"thumbs up!"
"1 missions need to be made more dynamic and unpredictablemeh, this is really about adding content, and redirecting priorities. for me to support what you say here, you'd have to explain what you are transfering content priority from.if this was 'spend less time on walking expansions, more time making mission content' i'm all in favour. but there are higher priority issues throughout the internet spaceships parts of eve.2 mission pay-out in low-sec and 0.0 needs improvementyes. yes it does.3 module loot has a negative impact on the economy by making t1 production obsolete and injecting too many minerals into the economyyes on the first part, not so much on the second part.4 missions in factional warfare require improvementsthey require improvements in the sense that large parts of the eve community shouldn't be arbitarily banned from them. beyond that, i can't comment.5 mining missions require improvementsdon't mine. don't know.6 agents are static, resulting in overloaded mission hubs, desire to have agent quality made dynamicagree completely.7 level 4 missions in their current form do not belong in high-security spacepersonally i think the real issue is that l4 missions pay out too much in high sec. this is the trade off with point 2.8 standing is being monopolized by missions no ways to get standing outside of mission running, with the exception of fw standingagree but probably not a priority.so i can agree with you on 4/8."
"i agree. as for the highsec/lowsec/nullsec problem, maybe have an equal number of agents in highsec and lowsec and increase the differential in rewards that sec status brings."
"there are already more agents in lowsec, so i support an increase to equal numbers."
"well yeah.now i am not saying keep mining missions as they are, just that the current form of mining is way to easy and profitable for macro miners. i would be happy to see mining missions yield larger quantities of the existing ore's as your agent level goes up so that the reward is very similar to mining except that it takes more interaction on the part of the miner.of course, if your a macro miner you would be upset or even leave if you take the belts out of empire and make them have to actually play the game. i don't see a problem with all those people closing their accounts at all.so would you be among the ranks of those who would be upset or leave ethaet?"
"in many ways we should be happy that there are macrominers, as its pretty much the only positive side of mining when you compare it to missioning. the veld prices would have to increase a lot to compete."
"i spent my first year of eve mostly in low sec fighting pirates and doing missions. rewards for low sec stuff was a little bit higher than high sec back then. i never lost a ship during that time simply because we formed up a local anti-pirate milita that was very effective. we were not solo players like todays mission runners are. so what stops this nowadays?1. risk vs reward. low sec does not give enough reward to make it worthwhile for most people to go there. in fact, its mostly pvpers/pirates that run low sec lvl4's/lvl5. solution? - massive lowsec/0.0 mission lp boosts. before you say \"ah, that boosts pirates alts who are the only people who run them\", remember that the more lucrative they become, the more likely pirate's are in running protection rackets and taking protection money from mission runners who want access. in other words, people will be giving money to pirates to avoid being hassled in addition to the extra targets, so risk vs rewards is certainly there.2. the total lack of grouped missions which destroys player confidence to enter lowsec. basically, all high sec missions are mostly solo affairs rather than being something that would excite people into bringing more people to help. solution? - not sure. perhaps more high buffer or high hp npc's that give a decent reward but make it more exciting for the player to bring a friend or two along. not a perfect solution though."
"i don't mine, so it makes no difference to me, but i am sure miners wouldn't want to have to waste time and isk to scan things out, or get a mission every time they wanted to mine, scanning being hugely time, isk and skill intensive and mining missions needing a. an agent and b. luck getting the right missionas for missions for groups, they already exist, they are called l5s. it is just that risk vs reward for them is broken even before you factor in pirates, l5s need a big increase in reward again"
"if you meant scanning as exploration when ever did it cost much to start out? last time i check you barely need some isk to start but w/e. mining mission suck in income you can't even really get much out of them. to pay out your shiny hulk you would have to do about 50 mining mission \"average they take 45 min solo in a maxed out implant/rig drone which is totally impractical\" to repay since they are 2 million isk each last i check. to pay off a skiff mining mercoxit0.0 ore in your alliance would require minimum effort if you brought it at empire price.mission for group yes they do exist however no mining mission level 5 yet exist nor level 5 mining/astrosurvey agents.just fyi not interested in flaming or anything."
"i agree with most of the points made, with the exception of moving level 4 missions to low-sec.in particular, i think the dynamic agent quality shows a lot of promise for spreading population out, or even encouraging missions in low-sec in combination with the boost to low-sec mission rewards. i could see, for example, making a change so that the server checked agent useage each downtime or perhaps once per week, and lowered the quality of the 25% most used agents at each level by a point, and increased the quality of the 25% least used agents by a point. current hot spots would quickly become less profitable, and out-of-the-way and low-sec agents would become more attractive.i'm not a fan of having agents move more than a minimal amount; this would have a heavy secondary effect penalizing traders trying to sell to mission-runners."
"i agree that mining missions need a boost, i was just trying to say that nerfing normal mining is not the right way to go about that."
"although i think fw missions were designed to be group missions, everything else needs a look. supporting on basis of this is important stuff."
"ankh, i wanted to call your attention to a mission-related topic i posted previously, if i can find it again...here it is: [vision] eve should encourage people to fly in gangs to make isk more.this post gives some missioning-specific detail.although that's a really ambitious idea, anything that would make missioning more group-centric would be welcome."
"*throws his support in the general direction.*"
"i have created and posted in so many 'please look at missions' threads i think my fingers are bleeding. however, one more....1 missions need to be made more dynamic and unpredictableyes. and more logical to the agent type giving them, and better variety of completion goals. i have come up with some examples here.2 mission pay-out in low-sec and 0.0 needs improvementyes. wouldn't tempt me into low sec even if they paid 100x what they do now, but i'm sure it would tempt others.3 module loot has a negative impact on the economy by making t1 production obsolete and injecting too many minerals into the economynot bothered either way really - i reprocess the lower end mods but don't use the mins every now and then i just give them en masse to a friend in production, but it's nice seeing a nice meta item drop from time to time to add to my collection. i tend to just give all my salvage items to this same player - every now and then she makes me something nice for free.4 missions in factional warfare require improvementsi don't do fw so can't comment on this.5 mining missions require improvementsyes - not entirely easy, since mining is mostly about going to a rock, blasting it with lasers and picking up the rubble. see also a couple of the ideas i posted in the thread linked above.6 agents are static, resulting in overloaded mission hubs, desire to have agent quality made dynamicor just remove agent quality, have mission quality and reward based solely on skills and standings.7 level 4 missions in their current form do not belong in high-security spaceno, no, no. i am a casual player, and i like running missions. having discovered i can now do level 4s and live, i hope to move up to doing them exclusively soon. take 'em out of high sec and i would probably leave the game - been doing 3s for about 18 months now and they are getting dull ;8 standing is being monopolized by missions no ways to get standing outside of mission running, with the exception of fw standingi like standings, it's one of my weird things about mmos. the more ways to improve them, the better. fw didn't do it for me though :edit - supported, although i do feel that ank might have better served this particular cause by jumping on the back of one or several of the other missioning threads, which have been around for longer and generally have more support than this one. tarminic's thread is i think the one with the most thumbs so far."
"besides people i know and my self having done lvl 4 missions in less than 3 months of play i have no idea how it took you 18 months to get to level four missions. but people also need to consider that by changing the rewards from missions in low sec and 0.0 the are also making mining and ratting an even less viable source of income. also that if you keep the same level of income in high sec lvl 4 missions then it really didn't do anything, most mining income is less than grinding lvl 4's and ratting is a whole lot less stable, if you increase low sec rewards it just swings the balance even farther out. to make an impact you would have to reduce the rewards so that the incentive is not that these are better than you are use to but what is are use to is now no longer in high sec. and you have to move down to get it.spelling, i think not, grammar not so much, punctuation i never."
"edit: how about no?"
"yes"
"i have to agree"
"worth looking into this proposal."
"maneuver only, emergency escape try... why the hell not... let's try this :"
"me likes"
"excellent suggestion imo, ccp set it up on the test server for a week and at least give this some thought please."
"still going to hurt blaster boats and our tiny optimal.also we need our mwd during pvp blaster boats so turning our guns off while it's running can nerf us still."
"i concur maybe missions should be looked at... but don't adjust their payout. or the loot dropped. i for one salvage and loot the wrecks and refine said loot to build stuff.this will kill a legitimate play-style that is, high-sec pve. it will also ruin what little low-sec pvp remains ie: pvp in low-sec and make money in empire.this idea is fail"
"unless you've read most descriptions of or issues on and with blasterboats, the whole deal with them is that they are supposed to charge hard and deal with the threat through huge damage before they are worn down. well, if they are gallente, that is, and not range-bonused things <U+FFFD> la caldari. in which case you won't have too much of a problem.it should work. really."
"/sign. sarmaul ftw!"
"yeah, we should do this."
"yes pleasea much better solution to the current problem"
"ya, let's remove local and make life better for roaming gangs to take on ratters and moon miners. let's do this. /sarcasmyou idiots who want local gone haven't been in 0.0 long enough to realize how important it is to survive. do this for me, go run through 0.0 and don't look at local even once. just minimize it and see how long you last."
"wtf kind of logic are you using here. i don't think you've earned the right to post here, but that kind of emotional plea means jack ****.oh, i forgot my thumbs up:.|.."
"this idea could be scarily fun it would need a better way of seeing if there are people in a system using the map. would make it abit more of an adrenaline rush moving in 00/lowsec.signed"
"you are extremely dense as you limit it to your income. leaving out the corporation income from moons. but including the corporation level expenses for defense.0.0 is not only personal income, it is personal+corporation income, while high sec is personal income-corporation tax, as corporations in high sec have very little isk making activity that a solo player can't do research pos rental only.about the edited post, i edit only for grammar and/or spelling errors.sometime i edit to add a second part to the post instead of adding a second post.you can check the posts and see if someone has cited them differently. try finding them. you \"ad hominen\" attack fail miserably."
"~~agreed. the idea of *nerfing* high-security missions is a bad idea. i cannot support this."
"mainly a problem for people who live in pos, you can not see when the insurance expires without traveling to a station with an insurance tab"
"had to lolz at op losing his ship, honestly those insurance exec's are pure wall street, think of the cash they saved the company by not sending you a reminder, thats what's giving them their bonuses.don't fly what i can't afford to lose is eve's first commandment, so no pop up warnings as insurance is a comfy blanket / isk faucet."
"supported!"
"this is a must-have imho...supported!"
"i've proposed the first idea in another thread, yeah. it's not a bad one. as for a focus-fire ddd, i stole the idea off jade. give it the choice of doing huge dps to enemy capital ships, or doing the current ddd aoe effect. personally, i prefer the varieties of ddd mentioned in this thread to just a simple mod to make it xxxl artillery, but it's an option. like i said, it needs something to make it stay on grid, and i don't care too much what."
"nooooowhy not drop loot like drones. no t1 modules only minerals.i need the minerals for production of ammo and ships from lp store."
"i am a missioner and i agree with this. at the moment everyone is a scrap dealer from the start and meta items can not be made, but t2 can be inveted and made which is odd. at the moment from refining t1 i make my own ammunition. i would still be able to do some mining to support my ammo making but could probably only make the less effective ammo since i would be mining in hi-sec.however do not raise the lp reward or money from doing missions but rather change what drops and what you can do with it. some ideas:1. take out all t1 and replace with more metal scraps. therefore players loot scrap metal. make these only refinable by people with the scrap metal refine skill, or very very very 10% max inefficiently refinable unless you have this skill. have different types of metal scraps with the stuff that refines into the rarer ores being rarer and only on high level missions. you now have a new type of industrialist the scrap metal merchant and refiner.2. make meta item drops much much rarer, after all the ships have been fried in combat, we assume that t1 0 items are of such low quality that they destroyed in combat, only meta items have a slim chance of surviving. instead make meta bpcs inventable from t1 blueprints, or researchable gives researchers and inventors another thing to do. however their production, inventing, and researching requires items got from refining different types of scrap metal. 3. keep salvaging as it is.so missions runners make isk from selling scapmetal. scrap metal merchants refine and sell products to industrialists, who buy bpcs for meta items from inventors and researchers, and then make meta items for the market. producing all t1 items from 0 to meta becomes viable and missioners still get valuable items, just items they can not use immediateley.miners especially those in low sec and 0.0 have a purpose once more."
"and where does that leave the miners?"
"dont have to buy minerals now since i am refining my loot. so you still can mine and build some nice t1 stuff wich will not be on the market from loot"
"in other words: \"screw the miners\"."
"anyone can mine, and get minerals to build things.those that are mining larger volumes to sell more skilled miners and make isk already mine and sell to make isk .what is really being argued for here is loot dropped so that some players can make more isk. this, of course, will be at the expense of the other players of eve and will impact the newer players greatly.loot drops provide starting players with modules to fit ships and experiment with- it also gives them a small source of income, which is tough when you first start out.dropping loot will hurt the newer players, which is why i'm against the idea.arithron"
"excellent idea"
"best way to nerf them tbqh. don't nerf the modules, nerf the ridiculous stacking of them."
"on the fence. i think a hard cap would be an 'easy fix', just limit everything to no faster than x, with x being things like interceptors, light missiles...etc.and no hacs wouldn't be up near x, they'd be closer to bs max speeds than inties, by a good bit."
"how about...market purchases include a shipping and handling fee. then items are delivered in a relatively timely manner from station of origin to your current station.depending on the space between distance and sec, the fee and the delay will vary.this would solve the jita \"problem\", since no one would have to cram themselves into a \"hub\" to sell their wares.and the fact that it only works for market purchases would still leave courier contracts viable for moving bulk cargo."
"1 practically destroys the trade business. 2 there's no problem with jita or similarly, rens; i find it very convenient that the lowest prices are in one place. market hubs are not an artificial occurrence they happen in real life. 3 most players, especially those who don't live in empire, rely on these major hubs for a reliable place to get their hulls and modules every time.4 i don't like giving more tasks to npcs, it takes away from the player-driven vision."
"i remember a dev blog about interbus delivering to your station only if its in the same constilation and high sec. would solve jita lag, dunno what they are doing with it though"
"1 i think it might actually help the market. given that you could choose the perfect station for your production, and vend your wares from that location instead of trucking them somewhere else for sale.2 lowest prices are fine... but the incredible lag that everyone complains about would instantly go away if 40,000 people didn't have to cram themselves into a single system to buy and sell. as for \"hubs today\", they're called ebay and amazon, and your orders are mailed to your front door.3 again... you rely on getting the best deals at those locations. whereas this change would still mean you get the best deal, but without the hassle of waiting for a lull in playerbase so you can manage the lag long enough to retrieve your merchandise.4 player driven doesn't work anymore. take a look at all the complaints for courier contracts. 500bil collateral, 50+ jumps, 3.50 isk reward. when no one is taking the contracts anymore, because people are r3tard3d in drafting them in the first place, then we invent a new system and move on.according to game info, interbus is supposed to be a delivery service. it's already there, we're just giving them an actual job to do."
"that would be oh so nice."
"cap of 80 is not enough..."
"if more than 500 people add a character to their ignore list, the character should not be able to make any more contracts"
"sounds good to me."
"noob griefing is too easy to do. i started a corp when i first started playing, and got squashed by a pirate corp, and i started a second corp, which i kept going for 4 months, but getting war dec'd week after week, makes it impossible to get anywhere.corp of noobs vs. corp of 3 year old pirates, the noobs have not got a chance. it costs way too little to go to war with noobs. its too easy to grief them.i propose the cost for going to war should be raised. not sure to what amount, but it needs looking at."
"when approaching a change in 0.0 mechanics in the jita park forum, there are certain fundamental principles that need to be adhered to. throughout a discussion in jita park titled \"what determines sovereignty? an examination of the concept,\" our group of posters was able to agree on a few concepts that should be true anywhere called player-owned space.[linkage]edit: also a consolidated version by nande yanen that sums up a bunch of our goals. read this instead.[linkage ii]1 sovereignty, logistics, and security are three distinct concepts2 sovereignty should be based on permanent military presence3 holding sovereignty should benefit your logistics4 logistics inherently benefits your sovereignty, [truth, no mechanics needed]5 security should benefit both sovereignty and logistics6 sovereignty and logistics should be fairly static in comparison to security7 security should be more dynamic, based on friendly presencethe total mechanics of player owned space should fulfill all of these goals. the mechanic i propose implements a different system for each of the three concepts of system ownership:sovereignty - claimed by the control of planets through a layered system of destructible orbital structures.logistics - the current pos system anchored at moons.security - the presence of sentry guns on stargates.the following 3 posts will hopefully dispel fears of the new system.the stargates aren't ctf, trust me and read through"
"holding sovereignty through planet controlfulfills 1, 2, 3, 6sovereignty must be determined by the amount of military presence of a system. by first breaking this down into planets, a limit is placed on sovereignty strength number of planets and an easy way of determining sovereignty is created whoever controls the most planets. system sovereignty can be neutralized simply by gaining control of more planets than the enemy.planetary control is broken down into further layers. the main structure is the orbital defense platform, located at either the [physics:] l1 or l2 lagrangian point of the planet. a maximum of two can be deployed per planet, but a lone odp can claim planetary control. planetary control can be neutralized by deploying your own odp, or by destroying enemy odps. they have the comparable strength of [debatable:] a small/medium pos. orbital defense platforms rely on fuel from the planet to recharge their shields. odp are refueled by low-altitude refueling satellites much closer to the planet. because of the location of these structures, only medium hulls cruisers and below can maintain stability and as such are the only ships able to lock on to their warp signature. they can be located by use of a new astrometrics probe. destroying the satellites can potentially cut off fuel to the odps, as each odp requires 3 active refueling satellites to maintain a maximum level of fuel each day. as a safeguard, an odp carries enough fuel to maintain shield recharge for 24 hours, giving the defending alliance a chance to deploy more into orbit. to balance this, refueling satellites are not owned, and if planetary control switches the new owner gains these satellitesoutcomes:sovereignty is determined by planet-control count.maintaining orbital defense platforms determines planet controlorbital defense platforms rely on refueling satellitesattacking refueling satellites weakens the odp, but requires you replace themafter this, sovereignty remains the same, progressing from 1-4 with time. the benefits are the same except for the invulnerability of pos and outposts. moon based pos are now solely for cyno-jammers, jump-bridges and moon mining."
"security based on gate sentry gunsfulfills 5, 6, 7i for one have always wanted a way to defend your space from anyone who passes through. if large factions can put guns on their gates, why cant we? the following is from our jita park discussion:after this, the security of a system can be determined. this isnt such a huge mechanic as stargates capture, which may have led to system ctf, but rather a way for owner-alliance presence, or lack of, to have some effect on system security. the proposition here is that if every stargate in a system has active guns, the system is secure and pos, outposts, and orbital defense platforms of the holding alliance are invulnerable. thus, if a system has a cyno-jammer, the alliance should pay attention and keep its sentry guns up and running. other, less tactical systems dont need such babysitting. there of course would be a notification system if your system security went into the contested stage.thus, security has nothing to do with sovereignty; it simply makes holding sovereignty easier by 1 giving you guns on gates and 2 protecting your tactical and logistical structures."
"i think many of the emergent mechanics will be clear from here, so ill give my support and open the floor.-fahtim meidires"
"although i'm not sold on the orbital structures around planets, this is a great summary of the issue and the general direction of dividing the concept of territory into sovereignty, logistics and security is excellent.i'd see two things that probably need to be debated:1 what is the ai of the anchorable gate guns? i think you'd see a lot of resistance to the idea of the guns auto-firing on -10s. perhaps auto-firing on wartargets would work. but more likely the only fair way to do it is to have them /defend alliance members - so if you have aggression on a member of the alliance that owns the gun, they will fire on you.2 where are cynojammers located in this scenario? do you have to contend with pos guns to attack them once security is lost? i'd advocate for tactical structures like the cynojammer being moved to a non-pos array-style setup under this system."
"the ai should be customizable by the holding alliance. some may want to keep it free of -10s, some may want it to shoot just enemies, some may want it to shoot neutrals too.yeah, they're still on normal pos. i see the reasons against it, but the way i see it there should be a way to prevent capitals namely titans from being on the same grid as the jammer while leaving the jammer at a pos. personally i think warp drives should be removed from capitals but because that's such a different issue i'll leave that to another thread for another day."
"why would the ai be any different then that of pos guns where you setup them up to follow standings.i dont know why your making more work for people and not giving anything in return? what kind of resources will planets give for holding them etc.."
"just cause that'd be way overpowered, it would never get passed or implemented."
"that's exactly how they would work. like pos guns.holding planets is a layer under system sovereignty, which eventually grants fuel use bonuses to logistics structures pos. however i'm sure your question lies deeper than that, so i'll continue.under the current system many pos are set up for the sole purpose of claiming sovereignty. essentially we're moving that particular system to planets. that way pos are strictly logistics and planets are strictly for system control.now that pos are strictly for moon mining, jump bridges, and cyno jammers there's no reason to load up a system with 30 of them. takes away the pos shot grind and makes the transfer of power quicker - but still requires that you build an infrastructure of tactical structures."
"i actually would like stargate sentries to work exactly like pos guns. it should take 2-3 bs to punch through a gate, and a drake shouldn't be able to tank them. of course frigs and other quick aligners should be able to slip through.edit: but yeah the idea is just that there are guns, specifics can be worked out by ccp"
"it sure would be nice if one of the csm's could actually take on the mantle of 'lord of the drones' and look at all the issues concerning drones and amalgate them in one post/document. there are a myriad of things wrong with drones/droneui that should all be looked at in relation to each other."
"greetings.today a corp member asked me if we were buying various minerals. after checking our stock and also trying to set up a contract to this end, i found that i can'twhat i would like to see is some way to do an item exchange contract that allows us to select an item from a list. a list comprised of the same things you see on the market, rather then things you have in your hangar or corp hangar. that way we could set up corp contracts for basically anything, or in this case for minerals.for example. lets say we set up a corp contract that we want 20 mil trit. this contract can then be filled by any corp member and as soon as they complete it they get their isk for it."
"already exists. go to contracts, click on the big yellow \"you can create n more contracts\", set up an item exchange, my corporation, jump to page 3, add items in the box at the bottom."
"thats just it. i dont want to add items. i want the one accepting the contract to add the ore or mineral the corp wants, and once they do, they get the cash rewards from the contract.i want to be able to set up a contract that states. \"tss is purchasing 10.000.000 tritanium @ 2.5 isk. this contract will expire in 10 days\"so the members look over the corp contracts. see this one and head out to a belt and mine some veldspar. once they have 10.000.000 tritanium they accept the contract and their tritanium is removed from their hangar and placed in the corp hangar, and the cash is given to the player from the corp wallet."
"the box i'm referring to is a list of things the person accepting the contract must provide. if you want a contract to buy 20 million trit in corp, go to that box, type tritanium, quantity 20 000 000, add item. set the \"i will pay\" to the desired amount, and click through."
"i'm all for its own thread... it can't hurt, and it definitely needed. it's not just a roleplaying part of the game. that's a hypocritical statement to make there. fw players are made up of everyone, not just roleplayers. in fact, there are probably more non-roleplayers in fw.it deserves its own channel. perhaps even a recruitment channel for militias.i'll never play jade online."
"yes, fw needs a forum."
"/signed"
"support"
"couldn't just add on to a thread already posted on the subject?"
"supported for 0.0 and any other space."
"w00t just what i always wanted!!!!! if you want to play eve in a \"cold and dark universe\" go to 0.0 with the other greifers!!!!"
"can't decide if this is pure sarcasm, or a poorly veiled whine. either way, entertaining thread, dumbass idea."
"there are people taking this seriously, and posting real agreement."
"just change deadspace gear to a purple colour and add a customisable game interface then the conversion is complete."
"oh my, solutions to all our problems are contained in this thread!"
"supporting this thread because i know it will upset a lot of other players supporting equally stupid ideas and to prove i can be a selfish tit as well."
"no just no/backhandhell noimplementing this idea would make wars in high sec dissapear, since 90% of targets dont want to fightwould take away our current tool against macro minerswould remove the suicide gankers from a job of removing ******ed freighter pilots who are afk'ing with 10billion in cargo--- while i do support the new suicide gank \"nerf\"if you can call it that it will still be possible to suicide gank those idiot pilotsand dueling mode? wtf?!?!if they are your genuine frineds, you can steal from each other's cans, and if they are inthe same corp, they can fight anywayget out, just get out/backhand"
"you should support this idea./backhandby the way, you're pretty stupid."
"i wish this wasn't eve to, but i am afraid it is."
"no need for this. if they are afk, they are no threat, it's just pshycological warfare. cloaks are fine the way they are and do not need any so-called \"fixing\".regards, maabuss"
"if that pilot is cloaked, and away from the keyboard, how can that pilot exactly harm you?"
"why, they pwning you while afk?"
"seen this idiocy in the 'ships and modules' section too. what exactly is the damn 'problem', when you get to the bottom of this?"
"bump, i have added a 4 point regarding pos spamming and the concept of just using 3 large towers to contest sov. i think this would again force the focus of sov contesting down to combat and nothing else"
"sounds good to me."
"let me help you with this.5000 man alliance is a myth, at most 1000 people are active with maybe half of those held with people that have 5 accounts each, and of those, we get excited when 200 show up for a fleet fight. that's across all the gs corporations, not just gf itself.wander around goon sov. space and you get excited if you see more than 30 people in local because something must be going on.how about you check the attitude at the door and quit insulting the obvious trolls. i love this game, it's one of the most brutal close to real life things out there. however the anti-goon sentiment from some people has gotten to a point of ridiculousness. it's like anything a person with the goonfleet tag says is worthless and a bunch of people who have not invested any time/energy to the null sec space other than to spend time in npc space running missions until they puke for some leet item feel we should change this into a ridiculous capture the flag or lame wow reference here."
"the biggest challenge we have here is this:people play this game simultaneously all over the world 23/7. however, they all don't wake up, do their thing, and then play all at the same time because it's not the same time all over the world. this in and of itself creates an awesome dynamic. there are whole regions of space that are 'owned' by someone that if you entered at the right time would be like a tour of a ghost system. go into delve some time after 0200 et and be surprised by empty system after system.the core problem we have with this mechanic is that there isn't a euro, east us, central us, west us, anzac, ap, india server where people log on, stay on, and log off close to the same time. there are entire swaths of time where short of doing something ridiculous to play internet space ships like stay up 24 hours, or alarm clock an operation at 3am, or something else crazy outside your normal lifes schedule that you can't do.so the pos mechanic of reinforced, and reinforcing timers, and the strategy that has evolved around those needs to be kept in any sovereignty system that comes out of this discussion. a capture the flag mechanic can not solve the 23/7 problem. this is more like a play by mail chess game. moves made, pieces put into place, and the execution of that strategy over time is what wins or looses the system.the main problem in the mechanic is this. to reinforce a pos and to defend a pos from being reinforced are extremely imbalanced.attacker of pos that is online:jump in an overwhelming number of capitals, or if a cyno jammer is in place an even larger number of battleships and you blow up guns, then shoot pos until it's reinforced.option #1:come back in x time and do it againoption #2:camp said thing until the timer runs out blowing away anything that tries to repair any defenses/ships in order to keep said system.gf experiences both of those, with option number 2 being the much maligned delve campaign. having participated in the taking of, and then loss of qy6 i can say that i'd be amazed if people weren't physically ill afterwords due to the number of people that did the 24 - 30 - 36 - 48 hours of no sleep in an effort to out camp the next guy.that's today's pos warefare in a nutshell.how do you fix it?easy: nerf stuff. make dreads worthless, make carrier repair blobs worthless, overpower the guns so they can 5-shot someone, there are lots of ways to make this so ugly that you effectively destroy fleet lag fests.i mean the united states of america didn't hot drop 75 dreadnoughts with 50 carriers that spider repped them on japan. logistically impossible due to the manpower needed for this.capital ships are controlled by one person, and one person only. they mash buttons just like the frigate pilot does. the mechanic is identical. the buttons they mash just happen to do a crap ton more damage. or they happen to repair a lot better than the other guy. or whatever. but at the core it's one person doing it instead of a concert of people with functions to do just like you have on a 'real world' capital class ship. this person just happened to either been round long enough, figured out how to make a ton of money in the game, or has nothing better to do with their money than throw it at time card buying/selling so they could get said ship.why not revisit the capital class as a true multi-player ship? you have a pilot that makes it go. you have individual gunners, you have engineering/power management, you have defense systems, and you have pilots of smaller ships that the larger ship deploys. these are corporate owned assets instead of individual assets....will this **** people off? yes, undoubtedly. will people leave? yes most likely. that's not fair! whatever. i mean look at the screaming you have around the speed changes that are coming."
"first let me say this, its hilarious to have someone call me out on alliance tags when lookin at mine. second, you take a goon concept, capture the flag, you imbed it into the brains of 5000 people and now everytime, revamping 0.0 comes up you get \" it can't be like capture the flag 23/7\" \"no way 0.0 should be capture the flag\" , \"people shouldn't get to play out in 0.0 just cause they subscribe and certainly not capture the flag in space\"now, back to the mindless dribble. your suggesting a total reworking of the game, which is about as far from productive as just randomly disconnecting 70% of people in a lag system to help the cluster recoup... and you haven't even identified the biggest challenge properly. the biggest challenge is the technology, if people could actually fight on grid, and lag wasn't an issue, then the best people would win and the garbage player/alliances would fold. but you add lag to the side of the defender, and then tedium and boredem to the side of the aggressor, and you get the status quo, alliances with lots of people doing lots of boring stuff and thats why you have people up all hours of the day and night just to make up the difference. i want to see slight changes to give the aggressors better options, defenders more options at the pos with additional gunners, less logistic runs to towers, but for pete sake bring the hp down so you dont need mega fleets to do attacks within reasonable times. small changes to the current system are all that are needed, not wide sweeping revisions of the sov concept, no new modules no special useless sov mechanics added, fix it a bit for simplicity and testing.."
"if anything, they need to make jumpclones harder to achieve, rather than easier.20 million at your -10.0 standing example is absolutely nothing in the grand scheme of eve."
"i'm not a macro farmer and i don't plan on ever selling isk online. i just think it would be nice if you could select 4 or 5 asteroids and have the option to automine them. my ship has 4k space and 1 mining 1 laser so it gets kinda boring mining one asteroid at a time. with an automine option you could select the 4-5 asteroids and your ship will automatically mine the nearest asteroid till it's gone then move to the second, and so forth until all five are gone or your hold is full. at that point the ship will just come to a standstill and play the \"your hold is full\" wav. either way you would have to manually chose what to do next.it gets a little tedious when you have to sit there and watch yourself mine for 10-20 minutes then move to the next asteroid. and since you have to manually set the asteroids you want and manually fly back to the station or create a container it wouldn't be anything like a bot. just a slight time saver for dedicated miners. i use a pve ship to earn money for skills and lp items, but its way cheaper to farm your own mats for building blue prints.i guess technically i could equip a cruiser with mining lasers and drones then just jettison to a locked cargo bin each time its full then bring in the frieghter to pick up the bin contents. however i still think a way to waypoint mine would be pretty cool just in terms of saving time and brain cells.edit: let the flamming begin...."
"mining in an industrial ship the worst ship for mining except for a freighterread halada's mining guidealso there are plenty of useful posts in resource thread in each subforum."
"ore in lowsec too valuable ? you read something wrong, i believe."
"the op has a point. with the way eve works, the lack of flexibility in the supply of some raw materials is causing imbalances. personally i like the suggestion best to make it possible to refine common moonmaterials into smaller amounts of more rare materials."
"no.some people don't want to be in player corps, more power to them. you don't need to smash up a legitmate playstyle in order for you to get your cheap ganks on your alleged farmers or newer and/or solo players.you may not believe it, but they do react to petitions and they do investigate these matters, however its not as black and white as you think it is. if you have absolutely no way to escape being war decced as you want corp hopping to be an exploit and shot openly, you would hurt the entire game as a whole."
"these were just idea to bring to the table.i'm trying not to think selfishly.personally when it comes to war dec'ing most dont seem to say a reason just declare.i think it is cruel of us to basically force people to stay in npc corps til then hit the mid ships range and able to defend themself.as to finding a corp that cant be war dec'd.i havent met one personally yet"
"engage mercs"
"1 for wardecs, here is a few of things you can do:a. corp hopb. form a password protected chat channel and all drop to npc corpsc. fight or get somebody to fight for youd. do not undock.2 what? without knowing the game, 60 million skillpoints won't help you.3 well you cana jetcan mine anywayb place from a jetcan straight into a hauler you are a mining corp, i presume you have haulers of some sortc move to a different, more remote system to remove the chances of ore theft.d use secure containers"
"i would like you to learn about resource creation and allocation, so that you then know why this is a horrible idea.now, being able to re-skin your ship from a list of the existing color schemes, sure. i'd like to give drake a mordu legion paintjob, or fly around in a myrmidon with the eom-style skin or a nighthawk-style red/black skinned myrm for true awesome."
"pity support"
"this place is the pits seriously, i thought the idea lab was bad, yes i liked the old name better but this place [issue][issue][issue]!!!!!!1i've still not seen a single good argument for why there are now two different forums for improvements to the game."
"i would think the most obvious solution would be to give everyone the equivalent of having rank 5 in all the learning skills, remove the learning skills themselves, and refund any skill points anyone has spent in the learning skills. personally i'd think it would probably be better to give everyone a bit less than the equivalent of rank 5, but that would be unfair to the people who trained them to rank 5. i've already trained my learning skills to 5/4, and it was completely pointless that i would have to do that just to keep from being penalized. even if i hadn't it's not like my idea could be implemented soon enough that i wouldn't still have to train them.the game is making you train them. if you don't you get penalized with fewer sp."
"only marginally compared to proper training. take this example:skill plan for imishra na1. weapon upgrades i 27 minutes, 13 seconds2. instant recall i 30 minutes, 38 seconds3. analytical mind i 27 minutes, 13 seconds4. weapon upgrades ii 2 hours, 3 minutes, 25 seconds5. instant recall ii 2 hours, 13 seconds6. learning ii 1 hour, 48 minutes, 46 seconds7. weapon upgrades iii 11 hours, 6 minutes, 32 seconds8. instant recall iii 10 hours, 3 minutes, 1 second9. spatial awareness iii 9 hours, 10 minutes, 35 seconds10. weapon upgrades iv 2 days, 10 hours, 14 minutes, 50 seconds11. weapon upgrades v 13 days, 17 hours, 29 minutes, 41 secondstotal time: 17 days, 17 hours, 22 minutes, 13 seconds-or all in the beginning-skill plan for imishra na1. instant recall i 30 minutes, 38 seconds2. analytical mind i 27 minutes, 13 seconds3. instant recall ii 2 hours, 13 seconds4. learning ii 1 hour, 48 minutes, 46 seconds5. instant recall iii 10 hours, 3 minutes, 1 second6. spatial awareness iii 9 hours, 10 minutes, 35 seconds7. weapon upgrades i 23 minutes, 27 seconds8. weapon upgrades ii 1 hour, 49 minutes, 14 seconds9. weapon upgrades iii 10 hours, 17 minutes, 46 seconds10. weapon upgrades iv 2 days, 10 hours, 14 minutes, 50 seconds11. weapon upgrades v 13 days, 17 hours, 29 minutes, 41 secondstotal time: 17 days, 16 hours, 15 minutes, 29 secondsa difference of one hour when properly spread out, yet in the first instance where proper planning was used the player gets weapon upgrades ii in the first 3 hours as opposed to blindly grinding through like he was told."
"all of the skills are boring. it's a timer. see my above post on how any player with half a brain in planning can make it less of a grind. new players who are capable of this simple task should be rewarded."
"nice example tho it depends on how your atributes are .or every 1 thats diffrent ,there are some topics how to create the best balanced char .for those who are already for a long time running know for themself if it was worth it or not.tho evenmon give you the option like showed above so it free you don't have to train them like said manny times in here.if ccp removes them ok but doub't it coz 99% of the ppl who trained them want compensation than incl me"
"1 the majority of ccp employees play eve. and, from all the stats i've heard, they lean far more heavily towards 0.0 and pvp careers than the player base as a whole. remember, the scandal wasn't about t2 bpos being given to caldari provisions. 2 the devs read the forums, and since any new thread on eve general has a 12.7% chance of being about lag of one sort or another, i think they'd have clued in by now. 3 they've been at work building a new server for months now. yeah, i think they know."
"ok, i don't care about any of the above issues, but fair enough lets look at them. but could just one of the csm's look at drones please? no damage notifications, no t2 mods, ui etc.etc.etc."
"csm and the players csm and the players csm and the players you forgot something when you made the highlighted post.everyone else ."
"the majority of the idea were originally proposed by :everyone else: and the csm gave their support or didn't. it's not jade's fault that he's sponsoring all of them."
"here's the basic formula that i think would work:pos and outposts can be attacked by sieges - capships and big fleets.but they are protected by cynojammers, positioned away from the pos. jump bridges and the like fall under the same category.but - and this is what i'd add to the above - the cynojammer and other arrays can't be attacked unless they are made vulnerable through a third system governed by small gangs. the small gangs don't necessarily do damage themselves, but they sow vulnerability when they aren't opposed, opening the door for larger attacks.it's the ability of small gangs to sow that vulnerability is missing. i think a very fair tactic to open up because it allows for the \"claimed but unsecure\" type of space."
"this is why the planet-based sovereignty works. you have two options to destroy cyno jammers. either destroy them directly at a moon pos using brute force, or disable them indirectly by disrupting sovereignty at planets."
"sorry, kelsin, but i'm continually falling against stargates playing a role in anything. although, even if only in name tfunk wuz here i still believe you would see bitter contesting going on, which would actually be pretty hilarious. alliances would definitely try to one up each other on stargate contests. don't lie. you would be ****ed if i put my name on one of your gates. you would come back to shoot at it.however, i think they're bad because they're too volatile and seriously, it's like turning the game into ctf. i wouldn't care if there were player destroyed structures that served the exact same function and were deployed in some random location in the system, but stargates are starates. turning them into anything else is....<U+6C17><U+60AA>instead i propose that whatever goals for increasing system volatility even with very, very minor impact to the holding power are integrated into some other structure that is not a stargate.i kinda want to start work on a compramise of sorts. preliminary goals no order of importance:1 create infrastructure for breaking large fights into smaller bites.2 make pos's economic tools. give us other tools for sov. give us still yet more tools for the serfs.3 make sure that all of them kind of tie together such that a small gang can do small things, a large gang can do large things, and a siege gang can smash down the whole package after the stront timers are up.i'm really, really, really in favor of some way to break up conflicts into smaller bites. it's not so much the lag thing, but how they would complicate larger fights and make the act of engaging not so straightforward. something where you have to acknowledge a gang 50% your strength as a very serious threat and make sure they don't get the upper hand on you in a situation where they can keep you divided. much more emphasis on good commanders and keeping the enemy pinned support."
"post #11 - the orbital structure plan - i think does just that. leaves pos alone for infrastructure while creating a sovereignty system based on small objectives. does it fulfill your goals? if so i'd like to tidy it up and present it in assembly hall, maybe even co-sponsor it with you if we make a few adjustments on it."
"i came up with some ground rules for an ideal solution. let me know what you think:1 we want some volatile goals to recognize that skizzlefist is leading raids into territory nightly and the defenders are doing nothing about it. however, any volatile goals must not destroy property. that is, victory or defeat at the minor goal level is more about average time spent in the victory or defeat condition. if you can consistently win small gang skirmishes at these objectives, i believe those victories should weigh upon or provide advantages to the defender.this should defeat stay-at-home tactics. nothing more boring than a group that knows you can't disrupt anything with the puny twenty man gang you have. they sit inside and wait for you to go away.i think a fueling system is a decent solution. fuel is expensive, and burning lots of gas all the time because you're lazy is a decent way to harass a stay-at-home alliance.i would enjoy getting attacked via this method simply for the \"you want to form up a five man gang and go re-orient our planetary array that got hit?\" would vastly increase number of small-gang skirmishes.2 orbital defense platforms are the heart of sov. they are the fight brokers stront timers that tell us when the showdown will happen. they give the defenders advantages and function to create the battlefield. they are timezone equalizers. these behaviors exist for reasons and pos's are to an extent serving their purpose in these roles.the reason why real military strat is so often fascinating to those who study it is that there is essentially limitless ways to approach and maneuver forces. there are terrain limitations etc to every location. only in eve does it all get focused on gates and pos's, which is really a shame considering that we have an entire solar system....the major military goals need to in some way require simultaneous interaction at several locations such that it's possible through good feinting and winning the support skirmishes to cut a disorganized fleet within reason...20 guys harassing 100 guys is entirely fair in my view. this will eliminate the all too frequent sov battles where the defender knows they're severely outnumbered and thus never show up. it also will provide opportunities for an attacker to whittle down a large defender.the system should scale well with fleet size. a large tower might be influential in a small fight, but in a large fight, it's basically a fixture. the new system should allow for direct influence on the outcome for defenders and attackers of all sizes. osprey fleets doing bad things at satellites i think is entirely a healthy thing. i'd at least rather be hunting down osprey fleets than waiting on a gate for an outnumbered enemy who never shows up.something like....how about an orbital defense platform tied to several satellites. disabling satellites reduces orbital platform firepower and defenses. say...each platform contributes constant shield recharge and extra power grid.disabling a satellite means you've disrupted its orbit and it enters an emergency status where it no longer provides power to the platform. thus guns go offline. the shield recharge rate goes flat. the tower goes down fairly quickly.if you think of a large planet like jupiter, the gravitational tides are what heat the moons, which are pretty hot in some cases, so there's a lot of energy happening in just simple planetary rhythms.say the satellite needs a particular alignment and will get overwhelmed by attack but can be realigned by repairing the overloaded systems, restoring full functionality to the odp and demanding attention."
"i'm not sure why anything involving stargates would have to have the drawbacks you're talking about shooting, naming - didn't have any of that stuff in my proposal. but for now that's beside the point.planets can work, really anything can work as long as small gang harassment can open the door for fleet attacks on utility structures, which can in turn open the door for capship sieges of pos. that's your formula for a comprehensive territory control system."
"3 very prelim idea, but it's kind of ridiculous that the sov tools and alliance power holding tools also deny the capability to sub-let a system to someone else. thus there's no real infrastructure for separating the citizens of your empire from the people who own/defend/expand the empire.finally some good solid separation of carebears and pvp'ers.just like the system of now, being able to disrupt these people's livelyhoods is a direct assault on the economic presence of the sovereign powers.what you think?and yes, i say we clean up a proposal here, let mine fall by the wayside, and you can start up a new one that i will sponsor.the only thing i'm truly insistent upon is some system that attracts attention at multiple locations so that small the tackling, pinning, and support skirmishing will have real impact on the attackers and defenders, like they need that mobility to operate effectively. at current, since everything is on one grid, it's blob vs blob and nobody needs to go anywhere until one side decides to retreat. during that time support doesn't play all that valuable of a role. i'd like to see mobility and efficient movements accomplishing more from a tactical standpoint."
"i'm going to call it a night after this, but i had a thought:there was a proposal on how small ships might be able to fight caps by disabling sub-systems in the future.what if the support structures had subsystems that are hard to target for large guns but easily \"tagged\" by small guns. thus small ships will have a method of impact as much as large ships when it comes to force multipliers at the satellites. it sounds bad to have small ships playing pivotal roles, but i believe it would be very healthy to trigger lots of small skirmishes. it's not like you can't take out two hundred velators anyway, so it's not like it can become too overbiased towards support.these sub-systems could be at the satellites or at the main platform. why not both? it'd be incredibly fun to be ninja-ing around a five-hundred man gang and causing them headaches while trying to deplete their support wings. as an attacker, it would be much more fun to have to deal with these things than to wait for a defender who never shows up."
"awesome - and i think i have a solution to your last part. you need to have surveillance satellites to coordinate fueling, but only frigs can lock on to their signature and warp to them as they are moving in a fast orbit around the planet. you need refueling satellites to keep the odps up and running, but only cruisers and smaller can lock their signature and warp. then, orbital defense platforms can be hit by bs and caps, but without the smaller subsystems they cannot defend themselves properly and can quickly go into reinforced - giving the defending alliance 24 hours to restore the smaller satellites or letting the opds become vulnerable to attack. the planetary defense headquarters can be removed no problem. cool? i'm gonna rewrite it tomorrow need sleep but i'll check this tomorrow. feel free to pm me in game as well."
"only frigs can lock onto the micro satellites' warp signature. only cruisers and below can lock onto the fuel satellites' warp signature. rp reason - they're moving in fast orbit around the planet at altitude too low for a larger hull to sustain stability."
"clients do not send data to each other, and as such there's no handshaking to worry about. each client sends data to the server, the server accumulates it and sends it all to each client. it's not nn-1/2, it's 2n."
"for each ship s1 on grid__for each ship s2 on grid____send position of s1 to s2"
"quick thought to use or not at your discretion:the mechanic i'd like to see is system security in 0.0 territory. a secure solar system grants invulnerability to the pos and non-pos tactical structures cynojammer, jump bridge, etc. in order to attack those structures you must disrupt the secure status of the system. once a solar system drops into unsecure status, those structures become vulnerable to attack by fleets and capship sieges.secure vs. unsecure is based on the small gang activity in the system or constellation perhaps, and all that is left is to determine the exact mechanic. essentially the deal is - if you keep law and order in your systems through good policing and suppression of insurgent activity, your infrastructure is protected. but if a solar system falls into civil unrest and lacks law and order, it can transition into a war zone. further tangible benefits could be assigned to \"secure\" status systems - like the ability to anchor sentry guns at stargates, etc. it just remains to find a good mechanc for how players make a solar system secure or unsecure."
"nande is correct. you're looking at the wrong thing. true data goes one way and goes back the other way. that's 2n. but this issue was the total number of ship locations that have to be sent. there are n pilots. each pilot needs to know the location of the other n-1 pilots on grid. the server has to send nn-1 total ship locations. it doesn't get divided by two because in this case a,b is different from b,a."
"so maybe this:sovereignty is determined by tactical structures at planets. having sovereignty grants logistics bonuses like less fuel at pos and the ability to anchor cynos, jump bridges.logistics are based around pos. having logistics reaps the obvious economic advantages of moon mining, jump bridges, cyno&cyno jammers, hangars, etc. outposts must also be put in this category.security is determined by having active sentry guns on gates. total system security grants invulnerability to logistics and tactical structures.this makes it much less back and forth."
"yeah i could see simple gate guns as a good indicator - insurgents would go around blowing them up to sow chaos, and taking down these token defenses would be a preamble to large scale invasions of a system.edit: i also like that you distinguish between methods for establishing sovereignty, logistics and security, instead of one thing doing all three."
"some fleshing out of ideas for security via gate guns:gate gun is an anchorable module powered by the stargate - some maximum number of guns can be anchored on a gate so as not to be ridiculous deathstars.online gate guns can be shot up and disabled - disabled is like a reinforcement period - and after some amount of time if nobody has come along and repaired the gun it goes offline. at this point it can be stolen, blown up, etc.so a secure system is one in which the guns are tended to and remain online. an unsecure system is one in which the guns are offline or disabled.something like that?"
"i do like it. the benefits from disrupting stargates are more appropriate now. and the separation of sov/logistics/security will be a main focus in my proposal. hoping to get it up by tonight."
"how long have you been involved with the game ? have you been here through most of the major changes ?on tranquility since 2003. 05. 19. first or second week of eve. i have been participating in the open beta before it started.what race of ships can you pilot ?minmatar, gallente, caldariwhat have you installed in place to make sure all proposals put forward are looked at in an un-biased manner ?i am born with the skill of unbiased perception level 5. besides this, i have a set of experts of different playstyles i used to consult in matters i am not completely familiar with. what guarantees do we have that any changes are not purely beneficial to only yourselves or your current corp / alliance ?my word.what is your main bulk of eve time spent doing ? i.e. pvp, pve, manufacturing, invention, etcdiplomacy, pvp."
"how long have you been involved with the game ? have you been here through most of the major changes ?the first traces of me dates back to late 04.what race of ships can you pilot ?all races of just about everything but commandships and battleshipswhat have you installed in place to make sure all proposals put forward are looked at in an un-biased manner ?everything is going to be biased based on our constituencies views. so you might want to expand on that question.what guarantees do we have that any changes are not purely beneficial to only yourselves or your current corp / alliance ?can't. things are always going to benefit somebody. but some things also hurt me, despite the fact i vote for them, due to it being \"better\" for game balance.what is your main bulk of eve time spent doing ? i.e. pvp, pve, manufacturing, invention, etcpiracypvp, production and trading."
"well look up my character date, i was here the moment the game hit my shop.gallente and some amarr.i'd say my history so far proves i'm quite unbiased, and i have relatively public channels in game and do my best to respond to all the mail i get.see history, and i'm not even in a corp or alliance so...factional warfare and missions. because this has been done to death in the election process, hehe."
"just created one for a ui improvement:[proposal] hanger filter/search"
"agreeing!"
"please explain how black ops battleships can compete with capital ships in anything? for those of you don't have any experience with pos warfare it is impossible for black ops battleships to do anything at all to hostile poses, the guns would literally rip you apart as soon as they locked you. none of the ships you can jump bridge in can affect poses at all either they are just simply too expensive when the t1 varient can do the same job at 10% of the cost, and with the numbers of ships you need to attack poses the idea that black ops battleships can affect them at all is simply laughable.also for those of you with no pvp experience i would like to point out another thing, no one wants a 500m isk tackler unless it can disengage at will aka factioned out vagabonds and rapiers otherwise the first time you tackle something and their buddies get their before yours you lose your ship. the risk v reward ratio is just way too low. the only way to justify using a ship that guarantees a 500m isk loss is if there is a very low chance of losing it per engagement and that means you have to be able to engage at range. remember losing a black ops is equivalent to losing a carrier in isk value but it has 1/1000 of the hp.i hope you guys get around to buffing them with the sept patch as they have been broken for 8 months already."
"a battleship using a pos portal is no more overpowered than a black ops. black ops plain suck"
"re: dst's using covert jump portals"
"* jumping into cynojammed systems - make the cov cyno visible when lighted in cyno jammed system.* bridging deep space transports sounds good.as far as their 'intended role' goes in my eyes it's logistical mostly. meaning rapid pilot redeployment bridging around nano covops and grabbing combat ships from end destination and moving smaller amounts of high value cargo around in 'safe' way. ability to bridge deep space transports would count as serious boost in that section. for some bizarre reason most of them seem to have some 'combat' oriented bonuses also, but those are more like aftertought than their intended role as they are in most areas they can do far outclassed by better and cheaper alternatives."
"no, not another logistic class. black ops should have good combat possibilities, they should be able to solo into a hostile system to cause trouble there."
"fitting out a ship can be a time-consuming activity. the idea i will proposal in this thread aims to reduce this wasted time.preamble:we've all been there - fitting out a ship. some of us fit out dozens of ships in advance; for our own stockpiles, for our corporate stockpiles, for our alliance...etc.many a time you may have a standard setup, which you will use again and again. why not be able to 'save' this fitting as an 'instruction sheet'?now, imagine this.... you have an unfitted ship, with all the modules you need to attach to it - simply activate your prepared instruction sheet on it and it puts itself together! you're now ready to go. at present, fitting out a ship sometimes trawling for the right modules in your hangar can take 1-5 minutes, or longer. now, the time saved is much higher if you are fitting out standard issue ships en masse i'm sure many organisations do this.i would imagine that to do this would have a drawback - a small fee to the station crew who're fitting your mods for you. this may also be a source of income for station owners, while also functioning as a mild isk sink of the lazy!"
"naturally, i support my idea"
"ccp will probably scream at the number of database operations you're proposing, but it's a good idea. even a \"fit as copy of current ship\" option would be very nice. i wouldn't use it much on tq, but on sisi, where i burn ships like it's going out of style, it'd be a lifesaver even for a fairly low-energy player like me. for corps photocopying huge numbers of ships, this would be a big time saver."
"it'd be nice but i have a suspicion it would **** the database. supported, but i don't think it's realistic."
"why'd this be stressful on the database? it's simply automating what players already do. only extra is that you store a list of setups somewhere. i for one would love this idea as some ships i fly have two module setups for different purposes solo/support for example."
"support. 'fit templates' are an obvious way to manage modules. and batching db updates instead of lots of small changes should be a good thing"
"would be really handy as well when moving base of operations... having to strip ships down to package for the freighter and then having to spend half an hour at the other end sorting out all the mods = a pain."
"yeah saved ship preset fits maybe would work."
"support"
"supported"
"edit: i misunderstood the op. though, i'm still not sure i support it.edit 2: ok, reread it, i support."
"there was a while there where i was going through vagabonds and hurricanes like running water.naturally i support this.edit: i played planetside for a couple of years, and you could have several different layouts for your gear. you just walked up to a terminal and picked out whatever layout you wanted. it was quite convenient."
"the proposed changes are entirely too all encompassing in completely flipping current combat mechanics. this will cause a lot of changes within the combat system at once ending in utter turmoil for the players. nerfing snakes and poly's is enough.these other changes are going to kill current mechanics and strategy/tactics. if ccp want to introduce these changes they need to do them over a longer time-frame instead of all at once. many new pilots are just getting a grasp on combat mechanics, this is going to flip their world upside down."
"strongly against the nerf."
"this is no nano nerf. this is lets make all ships move like bricks."
"ccp will loose my 4 accounts. not because of the nerf, but because i dont support any service that doesnt listen to their customers as much as ccp does. its insulting! bunch of whiners... oh no nos is bad... oh no speed is bad... y not nerf everything so we can all fly round in pwn mobiles!!"
"against the nerf"
"/signed"
"against"
"thank you, few people posted here, but i'm sure anyone would love that becouse i hear talking about it everyday ingame :please update us with any news you may have ^^"
"do want"
"good sense proposal. right now we can trash items in our hanger remotely. why not jump clones? it's surprising this hasn't already been added into the game.best regards,windjammer"
"afk / cloaks"
"can't support this. cloaks are weak enough read: limited enough in useful application as is. leave them be.the real solution to this would be for ccp to actually start enforcing their own rules and get rid of a lot of these isk selling farmers.no support."
"i read through this thread. got a different suggestion:bigger ship = longer time for cloak to take effect on ship e.g. for a raven, it would take what, 20 seconds to full cloak? that's enough time to find them if they haven't ss'd.furthermore, i should point out that using a cloak to save your behind from a roaming gang is a perfectly legitimate way to do so. otherwise, it would just be a matter of time till the probes got to you :p"
"i don't mind covert ops cloaking devices, they are just fine how they are. recons, cov ops, blackops, maybe stealth bombers if someone trained up for cov ops, he can sit on a safe spot afk as long has he wants.but t1 cloaking ratters, afk cloakers and similar folks are just lame. 100% security for nearly no penalty locktime? who cares...making them scannable with ship probes 30 seconds is a bit to much imho. what about giving them simililar signatur radiuses like plexes. so you would have to get your quest probe launcher and several different probes to pin them down?"
"their's nothing wrong with cloaks leave them the hell alone to many things are going to **** anyway because of whiners like u u don't like it adapt or quit!"
"the limit could just be the maximum bounty amount set in the contract. once the bounty hunter kills the target enough times to claim the whole bounty, the contract is fulfilled and they lose their derived kill rights."
"that is the current idea :"
"agreed, if the bounty hunter is flashy red to the person with the bounty on his head."
"that's the point of bounty hunters- you don't know who they are till they try and collect the bounty once they start to try and collect, they'll start flashing red....arithron"
"yay nano nerf"
"definitely support the nerf."
"support damnit"
"aye"
"support the nerf."
"support"
"i like it, you have my support."
"i like how they are \"just figuring this out\" as if they didn't intend this with their original design, even though it's been going on for nearly the entire history of eve. and they are just now noticing this? could the gm/devs really be this ignorant? smells like brown thumbs to me."
"some of these ideas are a bit wacky but 0.0 space needs to be more valuable and less tedious, not only to the alliance but the individual pilot. the only way to make isk in 0.0 now is ratting and mining, adding agents is a good step.regarding the mission types. i don't see any need for 0.0 agents to be different than high sec, just more profitable and risky. members shouldn't be paid for accomplishing strategic objectives."
"currently there is much more content available in empire via the missions there that those in 0.0 cannot enjoy. adding missions to conquerable 0.0 space outside of just the npc regions would add a lot more variety to 0.0 and hopefully entice more people out there from empire."
"why shouldn't 0.0 npc space be better than regular 0.0?0.0 npc space = no alliance protection, the true all-or-nothing lands. these are the badlands of new eden.0.0 alliance-held space = a ****load usually, hopefully of backup / lots-n-lots of guns!----and i am sorry... my level-4 +18 effective: +56 agent is not better than true -1.0that is a myth.0.0 npc space should be the only truly -1.0 space in this game."
"because non-npc 0.0 is taken and maintained by player-established infrastructure which must in turn be fought for and defended or attacked. in npc 0.0, if, ah, \"excrement hits the cooling device\", you can just run for the station and hide until they go away; you have nothing to defend in the space, why bother fighting for it?back to the topic: step in the right direction, terrible implementation. there's little reason most of them would be filled by ops, and they'd be pretty abusable lol watch me \"escort\" my alt.furthermore, a big problem as i see it is how money-making in 0.0 compares to that in empire. moonmining is obviously tremendously profitable, but on the other hand, most of it is done at an alliance level and that which isn't only benefits the tiny minority. most people mine or rat, and to be honest, you can make just as much money in complete safety doing l4 missions in highsec. something's wrong with that.obviously, there are two solutions to this. the first is to buff the 0.0 moneymaking methods, somehow. high-end ores, for example, could yield more low-end minerals in addition to their current high-end content. an idea for ratting would be every rat kill yield a small amount of lp with an opposing pirate faction, again in addition to their normal bounties. i'm sure people more creative than i could provide better ideas.the other side of the coin is nerf the l4 missions. except, rather than nerf them, move them. send them off to lowsec. i'd love to really suggest that they be moved to 0.0, but there are a lack of stations for the appropriate factions to accommodate them.i'm not going to thumbs-up this, but i am hoping to see better ideas come out of it.super-low truesec 0.0 isn't some magical ratting land. that truesec only affects what the highest possible spawn there is, and it has nothing to do with the lowest-end. in other words, when i first enter a system, it's not uncommon to get one, maybe two chainable battleship spawns. the rest will be low-value battleship spawns, cruiser/frigate spawns, or nothing. the low-value spawns have to be wiped out with the hope that they are replaced by something good. wash, rinse, hope your good spawns don't despawn, repeat. while the end result, if you're lucky, is several high-end spawns that you can chain to your heart's delight, getting there can take hours, during which you tend to make considerably less isk. then you've also got to contend with other people ratting in said system, which means you're splitting the spawns, lowering the value still. on top of that, you're watching out for gankers.your +56 effective quality l4 in highsec, on the other hand, is 100% safe, does not have its value lowered by having more players using it, and is a steady, consistent lp/bounty/mission reward payout.if anything, a big buff to 0.0 ratting would be to adjust it so that the truesec of the system does determine both the high and low ends of the rats that spawn there. get past a certain point and you have no spawns of pure frigs/cruisers. pass another point and spawns come in no less than two battleships, and so on.and as for your contention that npc 0.0 should be the best 0.0...how are you qualified to judge that, as a resident of empire?by the way, i have news for you: npc pirate sovereignty systems automatically count as -1.0 truesec, no matter what their actual truesec is. this is part of why some regions, such as delve, are so good."
"kira novia, your arguments are flawed and quite frankly dumb.not true, there alliances in npc 0.0 and they do protect players, to claim otherwise would be patently false. npc 0.0 resembles empire high sec space more than player controlled 0.0 space because of the ability for anyone to dock at the stations present in npc 0.0 space. the 'all or nothing' line of thought is correct if you apply it to docking and undocking ;.0.0 space held by alliances does not equate guaranteed backup of any kind.the amount of backup is not determined by whether or not you are in player controlled or npc 0.0 space but by your alliance or corporation."
"it also depends on how far you have to go. if you want a system to yourself so as to get the full potential out of it you're often going to wind up several jumps away from your alliance's hubs. this need to spread out to get the most out of ratting is part of why large alliances hold so much space."
"this idea makes it more profitable to live in 0.0. missions in conquerable space is something that people have been requesting consistently. player-created missions is a cool vision. this gets the thumbs up.looking deeper, it appears that part of your idea is that assorted mission runners will come to the space of an alliance and run missions there on behalf of the alliance. this is like a way for people to contribute to a 0.0 alliance without being members of it or having any standings with it. that's a neat idea, although some of the details you mention are not really viable. for example, alliance standings are carefully and deliberately managed; i don't think that people would appreciate a game mechanic that could effect the standings set by a pc alliance. beyond that, if those with no standing come into the space of a 0.0 alliance, people will attempt to destroy them for sport. so while i like that part of the idea, i can't think of a way to make it work. i wish i could, though, because more people visiting 0.0 means more pvp.what could work is for those who do have standing to run missions in the space of their allies. for example, hydra could run missions npc or pc created for pure agents, or whatever."
"i don't know about the playerbased missions but having agents in 0.0 stations makes a lot of sense when you consider the risk reward ratio for currently being in 0.0 is very poor when you can make the same per hour in empire running l4 missions for no risk at all."
"good idea, if people in empire can run missions why not add some more reward to the hardest thing in the game to own, a station owned by a corporation."
"uhm, you got it wrong ankh.we need npc agents in player controlled 0.0player controlled 0.0 is horribly broken isk wise. if i get into 17-belt -0.56 system and only find battlecruiser npcs in 2 of them with rest of the belts empty, then something is really wrong. not to mention it takes 15-20 minutes to check all the belts in a battleship.yet, lvl4 combat missions generate guaranteed stream of ships to shoot at isk, and it's done with no risk whatsoever.make it possible for alliances to 'rent' npc combat agents for a monthly fee or something. there were ideas to 'link' agent level to sov lvl4 agent in sov4 system, etc, but it would probably not be fair to smaller alliances."
"i don't like the specific ideas you have but the general idea of having missions more of all the services really in 0.0 sounds good to me.adding faction agents chosen from a list dictated by the owner's standings perhaps to office outposts seems an obvious way to make them more popular. although the conquerable stations should get some love too."
"the details of your player mission system sound more like an open mercenary contract than a mission in any conventional sense. make them contracts, or equivalent, not agents. more npc agents in 0.0 is a fairly good idea, but pc \"agents\" just sounds like bad terminology."
"yes!simple method: add an outpost upgrade that supports and agent. low- middle- and high-tier providing level 1-2, 3 and 4 agents respectively.buy the upgrade in amarr space for an amarr agent, caldari space for a caldari agent, etc.additional bonus: low level agents give very new players an accessible way to make isk in 0.0. this was a problem i faced when trying to recruit very new players into a pvp corp; sure they could strap on a mwd and a scram/web and be useful, but they had no way to support themselves in between fights."
"needs work, but it's a good start."
"1. mission runner does empire missions2. mission runner migrates to 0.03. mission runner finds out that step 1 killed his standings thus making it impossible to do 0.0 missions4. mission runner uses noobcorp alt to start missions while his main does them. then he relises that 95% of missions are just standard lvl4 ones and most pirate lp stores are total crap. 5. mission runner thinks \"wtf? faction pirate ammo is worse than high sec, whats the point?\"fix the above then you can take the next step."
"you misunderstand the whole pos concept. the only reasons people make pos's is1. making mega billions/week from moon mining2. as above but from making simple/complex reaction for t2 production chain.3. to claim sov so nobody can steal that station the alliance charges 10% refinery tax on4. bridge points, either for bridges or for safe places for carriers/jump frightors to cyno to etc.5. to build supercaps with6. group of isk farmer/miner style players put a small up so they have a drop off point. very rare but you do get people who think pos refining is cool because they cannot afford a rorqurel.pos is not something people put up for the sake of it. pos's only exist in the bigger picture to make isk or to support the security/logistic of other pos's making isk.all your pos missions are obsolete because the alliance gets a automatic evemail with location of enemy pos in their soverign space the second someone puts a pos up. who gets the reward for someone bringing 400 players in caps to blow up a dyso moon that earns the owner 20bil/month worth of rare reactions? because thats whats happening in 0.0 atm."
"lalala ankh still has good idea, needs serious polishing, but still good fundamentals."
"you know how hard it is to get a fight in alliance heald 0.0? people will kill their alts in noobships to do your \"search & destroy\" missions. such missions would mean you would have to wait for someone to raid you and then have the balls to fight. most alliance comqurable space is used by cowardly players who would dock up than do anything else.all the rest of your missions are made obsolete by jump bridges. haul, escort, deliver etc etc. all these missions would turn out to be nothing more than someone undocking in a hauler and warping to a pos, and taking the jump bridge network to destination. travel 50 jumps in 2 minutes in any hauler due to pos portals.only acquire mission make sense, and even then, outpost owners would dip into the refinery tax fund to instacomplete these missions.missions in outposts is bad - npc station only pls. we need to encorage people to do missions in dangerous space, not high sec carebear or 0.0 cearbear space.fw style missions please, because teh fw missions are proper pve in pvp space missions, but have them without 50 jump round trip. npc 0.0 space so people can dock and buy stuff, unlike alliance 0.0 which is 100 jumps away from the nearist dockable station."
"the player made \"missions\" are terrible. and i'd rather they improved other aspects of 0.0 instead of making eve more into missions online."
"a nice addition to 0.0 outpost would be to make the trade tax payable to the outpost owners instead of the trade commission. i was very surprised to learn that wasn't already implemented."
"are these issues for voting in csm meetings, or ideas for discussion and development? if they are the later, maybe the jita park forum is more appropriate?take care,arithron"
"i've always wondered about dynamic npc agents although only really from the point of view of high sec. if my corp owns a pos, and manages to get the corporate standing with a particular npc corp above a certain level, then a poor quality level 1 agent from that corp visits the pos and hands out missions there - gradually improving in quality as the corp standing with his agency improves, eventually upgrading to a poor level 2, and so on.but anyway - supported, because agents and missions in nil sec would stop the nil seccers whining about how broken risk vs reward is in empire, thereby lessening the risk to my preferred occupation of high sec mission running :"
"if normal agents normally become migratory in some fashion, i could see the more heavily farmed ones meandering out into player 0.0 through some undefined mechanism. i could see them leaving, just as easily.it's really a shame about l4s in highsec being the best risk:reward in the game, i'm sure if the game was done over again they would only be in low and nullsec. i suppose making 0.0 actually more profitable for joe pod pilot would inflate the economy uncomfortably, but it is still irksome."
"no sov = no cyno jammers, no new outposts."
"as ankh is a member of the csm, if her ideas get a good response, she can bring it up...as for the idea, if an alliance can create an indestructible outpost, why can't they contract with npc corps they are in good standing with to open a branch office? you get 1 npc corp per station, they each bring their own benefits/draw backs some will refuse better contracts bring higher level agents... not a bad idea really..."
"just this part of the start gives the impression its an idea for development/discussion, not something that will potentially, in its current form, be coming up on the agenda! i'm well aware that she can raise it at a meeting...ari"
"this might be a good way to let 0.0 alliances get involved in faction wars. they pick a faction, then they get that faction's agents in their sov4 constellations. might be easier to put them out in space instead of a station, whichever is easier to make happen. would also be good to put some level 1-2 agents in just so new players in 0.0 who can't handle 0.0 belt rats yet have something they can do solo. mostly, it's just sad that eve's endgame, 0.0 space, is so sparsely populated and some of the oldest pilots in the game never leave empire because the isk/safety ratio is too good there. there are obvious concerns about inflation, but this is a problem that needs to be addressed."
"the idea of npc mission agents in conquerable space is a good one.that said, there should be ways to differentiate between the varying qualities of space truesec, presumably, should affect effective quality as it does in low and high sec. this would prevent a homogenisation of space, but also serve to \"protect\" the lower quality space which is available to less powerful alliances such as that in providence. if all 0.0 had high quality, money-spinning agents able to support effectively limitless numbers of players until motsu lag kicked in then the \"starter\" space would attract the attention of bigger alliances.this would also help answer the over-population of much of 0.0 outside of the major power blocs: there has only been drone space added in 0.0 over a period when the game population has massively increased.it would also provide a bit of variety for those who just can't face four more hours jumping from belt to belt chaining bs spawns.finally, if the proceeds were rich enough this might attract rich corps of mission runners who would ill-advisedly set themselves up in a good truesec 0.0 system, renting the space from alliances and providing nice, gankable targets for roaming gangs.ps - pc-created missions would be gamed into absurdity in no time flat. that bit is a whole different idea and not a good one in practise."
"i'm up for just about anything that adds incentives to 0.0the only thing i'm concerned about with 0.0 is the risk/reward. it should be a risk to move out to 0.0 and try to set up shop, but there should also be a great amount of potential reward for it. i like the current amount of risk, but the reward could be buffed and agents seem like a great idea."
"the only good part about this is the original question \"there are outposts floating around in 0.0, so why no agents?\".the entire concept of an alliance creating missions for it's players is something that could only be invented by a highsec mission runner. in reality when an alliance needs to get something done, they say \"hey join the fleet we've got something to do\". there is no room, time, or reason to create a mission for it. adding new complex game systems for things which are already well handled socially is an incredible waste of resources.besides, we already have contracts for most of the stuff that this covers, and the rest is nonsense. a mission for sieging a pos? are you joking? the rest of this could be handled by improving the contracts window search options, without any complicated agents changes. most importantly, the basic problems of 0.0 go entirely unaddressed."
"these mission mke no sence to anybody apart from the high sec carebear or the 0.0 carebear which is just the high sec carebear who thinks he is tough because he is doing the same carebear stuff, but in 0.0if you want to promote pve in 0.0, then promote lvl4/lvl5's in npc 0.0 regions which are impossible to cynojam. you do not want to promote pve in conqurable space for the obvious reasion."
"this. thread should be titled \"ankhs mission ideas\" as not all effect 0.0 and even less effect player-owned space."
"these are all great ideas! i too have thought that it'd be nice to have player created or at least, player initiated missions, in both low and high sec space. i really liked some of the ideas you put forth along those lines. supported!"
"i'm not sure if ank intended this or not, but a main escorting an alt would be pointless if the player initiated missions were paid out by the player and not by the game itself."
"this."
"i thought about it, and exploration is a more elegant system with all the complexity and dynamism of mission-running. what 0.0 and lowsec needs are more reasons to be in belts."
"the first thing you've ever said that i can agree with. from an ic point of view, sansha agents are in sansha stations. why would they want to be in an rkk station? why would iron want to have a hostile entity the serpentis shoot at every iron ship they see with an office in one of their stations, taking up one of their office slots?from an ooc point of view, the people who own the station would have their own captive little isk-making machine. only an idiot who has never left high sec would come up with an idea like that.what? you mean like people hiring out research poses? hiring mercs? oh, i know, how about courier missions?waaaait a minute. they already do that in game! waaaait a minute. they already do that in game!waaaait a minute. they already do that in game!waaaait a minute. they already do that in game!waaaait a minute. they already do that in game!waaaait a minute. they already do that in game!waaaait a minute. they already do that in game!waaaait a minute. they already do that in game!waaaait a minute. they already do that in game!what? you means like \"get into gang or you get kicked\"? \"this is a corp mining op, participate or we can't afford our corp ship replacement plan\"?you know, some day you really should join a player corp and see what a mmo is like when you play with other people.you mean like ... um ... a pos?"
"it is sad to see csm members who have never pvped or lived in 0.0 putting out 0.0 ideas.reading up on other crap csm are doing, it is not surprising. i mean, look at black ops. i doubt any csm member has black ops at lvl1 yet they seem to think the black ops fixt is by making transport ships jump with them.sigh. no wonder devs no longer take players seriously anymore!"
"can you please repost your opinion of the op 3-4 more times? i think some of us are still a little unclear on exactly where you stand."
"in right after the torrent of \"are you insane?\" posts.0.0 is supposed to be ruled by the players and you want to bring npcs and scripted missions into it? more rewards and stuff to do is greatly needed in 0.0, but a mission that tells you to go defend this pos no one cares about for 2 hours isn't exactly the exciting changes 0.0 denizens hope for."
"imho it would be enough to move lvl 4 to lowsec. i remember flying lvl 5 missions on sisi. never heard of anyone flying them on tranquility. nobody bothers teaming up with other ppl in lowsec, risking ships, when you can solo lvl 4 missions 23/7 in highsec without any risk.but i highly doubt ccp will ever move every lvl 4 agent out of high sec, because of massive upcoming carebear-whine. so how about keeping lvl 4 agents in high sec, but remove isk rewards for missions, remove bounty and drop less loot, only keep lp-rewards. if you want to fly lvl 4 in the current form, you would have to move to lowsec."
"sigh.1 isk buying is only a problem when you have impatient ****s who think they deserve to always fly faction-fit pwnships and think they should be disposable. the gms can handle this quite nicely.2 for every subscription they lose to a /ragequitter, 3 more will come because the game because there are actually goals now. 3 see #24 if you're running level 4 missions you are not a new player. no one here has suggested nerfing level 2 or 1 missions."
"agree with the first part, however i know of people who did level 5's on tranquility myself included - they aren't worth the effort, as they paid quite badly last i did them.what you've said about low sec isn't true. it's most likely you are misinformed, 0.0. pilot."
"lowsec missions were boosted quite a bit. last i read they paid some 60k lp/mission."
"ah i didn't know that. thanks for the info."
"loot was boosted to, so level 5 missions are quite nice now. however, that doesn't change the fact that you can run level 4s solo and do so semi afk without having to worry about any real risk."
"no support. there really isn't a problem with the way things are set up now.1 most high quality level iv agents are either located in low sec or give missions for low sec.2 i've never seen a level v agent in high sec.3 loot is much better in missions found in low sec. for instance, i've never heard of faction fittings being found in a high sec mission. at least not reacently. there were some missions rumored to give faction stuff regularly, but those have been considerably dialed back and i don't think it was occuring in high sec even then.summary: in terms of loot, isk from bounties, mission payment, mission bonuses and loyalty points, low sec missions already give a substantially greater payout than high sec missions. additionally, level v missions simply don't exist in high sec and they pay out just a little better than any level iv's.this just seems like another plan to force people out of high sec so they can be easy prey.windjammer"
"posting in a very silly, yet popular thread for kicks!"
"who are running lvl 4s solo? that's absurd.oh wait... you're talking about all the players who actually play the game and utilize many of its intended purposes? **sarcasm** the same players that you think you can put a value on their time and their play style? the players that pay for and have always been freely able to play as they wish.personally, i think if you want to put in the time to run a dozen lvl 4's, then so be it. they are putting in just as much time as you... maybe they just utilize their time more constructively? rather than camping for countless hours to finally kill a noob caracal and chestpop like you are uber at what you do.get a clue."
"this is along the same lines as losing connection with drones.if you could reestablish your connection with drones and probes, then there wouldn't be so much junk floating about all the time.you could cancel your probes when you're done, and you could recover your drones after your \"d/c emergency warp\" always leaves them stranded."
"yes, getting your stuff in space back when you disconnect seems like a good plan to me. same as what i said on the drones e-warping thread."
"devblogthere's several issues with it:1. the loss of techlabapi discussion2. the crime and punishment forum description is misleading\"piracy, scams, mercenaries, and more. carebears beware; c&p invokes the dark side of eve's nature.\"3. the market discussion description doesn't really tell what it's all about:\"share stock tips or get the inside scoop on trading.\"notice it's the current description4. evetv forum - unless the tournament is completely dead, are we supposed to spam all our questions to steviesg on the general discussion forum?5. player gathering and events is not a gameplay area. it should be in the communication center6.added don't merge the events and the forum should not be merged with the player gathering forum.unless ccp is willing to actually make some changes, these forum changes should not be implemented any time soon."
"agreed. the techlab is invaluable.as to the evetv forum, i wouldn't hold your breath for another tournament. that the evetv forum has been condemned to the graveyard is somewhat indicative of ccp's current attitude towards evetv."
"fixed it for you.also: wtb built-in search feature that works."
"i'd also like to hear about what is actually being done to improve the underlying forum code."
"agreed. don't fix what aren't broken."
"according to the information we got at csm meetings, there won't be any underlying forum code. but i would like to be proven wrong."
"can i also add that the forum needs a complete redesign and new tech behind it? the forum here is less than useful compared to how it could be. check out the forums at quartertothree.com for an example of a good setup and tech. we need to be able to send pm's, mark forums read, sort things to our liking and many other things. i hear rumor that they're working with a third party on this, but can we get a status report?"
"backing this. the loss of an official place to discuss the development of third party tools i.e. the tech lab is no good thing, and as far as i could see from the proposed new structure, there's no 'reasonable' alternative place to post about these projects, which makes me sad."
"agreed on the above being completly bonkers and hopefully the result of someones brainfart already stated so a bit more elaborate in the devblog comments thread"
"oh, and please don't get rid of eve technology lab!"
"care to elaborate? are they planning on using 3rd party forum software?"
"signed. the dev blog doesn't state why the forum is getting changed, only that it will be for the worse."
"seems like changes are being made for change's sake."
"fix this place already, merge it with the idea forum, having both is needless clutter as most people don't bother with the other forum now that this whine express lane is in place and you must be here with your big [issue] sign to be seen."
"we need a forum for third party development: the tech lab must stay."
"this."
"dammit i have to agree with lv"
"tech lab must be saved."
"it would definately be the wrong discussion to close down the tech lab, most of the interesting stuff on the e-o forums actually goes on here"
"i agree with lavista, these forums dont need reshuffling of various areas. they need a lot of feature upgrades."
"you can just trash them, that's all they're good for anyway"
"has my vote, but there should be an \"evil\" choice too like selling off the slaves on the black market would require going to low sec."
"yes, but the rewards are so good for rescuing her i'll happily unlock her door just to let her get away some more caldari should have the option to convert slaves into 'data entry clerks' for the relevant corporation. although the distinction there may be mere semantics this is not true - at least the part about losing standing - you only lose standing if you get caught, and once you get over a certain standing level with the faction whose space you are in they no longer scan you. i had been collecting contraband in caldari space for about a year, and decided to run some missions in amarr territory. i tend to carry everything in my freighter and because i had not been scanned down for months, forgot that my standing in amarr space wasn't quite so good as it was in caldari... about 3 jumps in, i got jumped by the cops, and got hit by a big fine about 15 mil isk total i think and standing loss. moved back to caldari space soon after and have not had a problem since."
"yet more positive feedback, thankyou.would any csm <3 omber, btw, but amirite in thinking alternates cannot propose stuffs for meetings? care to share their opinions on this matter i feel its a simple one that could improve diversity of setups and bring a lot of stuff out of uselessness, with little risk of creating game-breaking setups and overpowered rigs, purely because the aim is to have less stats stacking up to huge multiples of their original number, not more. it would also not take vast amount of dev time to implement.on a related note, how would it be for people if rigs were \"forcing\" diversity by only be allowed to fit one of any rig? i tried to acheive that idea in the op without a hard limit, but now i think about it, it does make sense - after all, you cant replace your engine housings with polycarbon material more than once, can you?"
"nice idea!"
"we really need this feature. for modules we have at least giant secure containers with their logs, but for ships we have absolutely nothing to protect from thieves."
"this is the clumping problem rather than the obedience problem. the drones are bumping each other, thus interfering with each others navigation. i've lost drones this way on more than one occasion.you can also seperate them by telling one of the two drones to go do something else and then telling it to do what you really want it to, but it's a cumbersome and slow process to do it. usually right in the middle of a situation where you just don't have time to do all that extra messing about with the drones which should be working correctly in the first place.regards,windjammer"
"would be nice if this was responded to, i've had all of the problems from 1-2 drones moving to different targets, drone clumping. another one i found was not going around a pos towers shield. i told them to engage a battery on the other side of the tower within control range they ran directly for it, hit the shield, bumped it for a little while, i got annoyed, recalled them and deployed sentries."
"i see absolutely no reason why this would in any way specifically benefit gallente above all others . . .kudos, windjammer . . . you, more or less, have unanimous support . . .wow . . . that's so rare . . .i feel like this is the twilight zone or something . . .lo"
"i generally support this, though you wouldn't need to remove lvl 4s from hi sec if you had dynamic agent quality, and tied the bounties from the npcs to the agent quality and or system security status"
"1 missions need to be made more dynamic and unpredictableyes. 2 mission pay-out in low-sec and 0.0 needs improvementdefinitely. the automatic equation should take in to account the security of the system that mission takes place in and the agents location. possibly this is moving any agent with a really high quality is in low sec3 module loot has a negative impact on the economy by making t1 production obsolete and injecting too many minerals into the economythis is huge. a player running a l4 mission should not be able to make in minerals the same amount as a dedicated miner does in half the time.4 missions in factional warfare require improvementsthere needs to be a warning - these are intended to be done as a group! secondly the reward for a bonus needs to be higher. lastly the missions beacon should not appear until 1 the owning player enters system or 2 warps to the mission.5 mining missions require improvementsyes6 agents are static, resulting in overloaded mission hubs, desire to have agent quality made dynamici like the the idea of it being dynamic based on the number of missions they give out per day/week/etc. this should result in distribution of pilots across multiple systems, which in turn helps to reduce lag!7 level 4 missions in their current form do not belong in high-security spacei think the above will help to take care of this a bit. 8 standing is being monopolized by missions no ways to get standing outside of mission running, with the exception of fw standingthe challenge here is what do you include? there are other ways; killing rats, killing npc haulers moving between stations. but yes there is no way to increase your standings with npc organizations outside of missions or complexes in fw."
"+1 i was waiting for one of the csm to seriously raise this issue."
"1. i'm not a very good pilot.2. i tend to play when i am tired as late at night is often the only time in the day i can spare. when falling asleep is a viable cause for concern, you don't want to be taxing your brain with high levels of concentration :3. even when i'm awake my attention span isn't good - i swear i have add or something.4. i don't respond well to criticism and advice. despite knowing this about myself, i am very reluctant to experiment with my fit.5. even though i am caldari, i cannot yet fly a raven, the missioner's ship of choice it seems, and couldn't hit the side of a barn with a missile - i fly a megathron and shoot guns.6. i am a casual player. even on a good week, i rarely manage more than 7-8 hours of play. at the moment i have so much else going on that i am spending a lot more time on the forums than i am in game.7. i have tried level 4s now and then over those 18 months. every time i tried them i lost my ship in the first one i tried. having successfully completed level 4 wc though, i'm confident i will be able to run 4s after i finish farming 3s for lp to get a cnr to swap for a navy mega.i play eve the way i enjoy. i won't bore you with the reasons why i don't follow other professions or activities in eve, but missions are about all i do. i don't farm them - i hardly ever buy anything off the market, and rarely sell anything that drops - i just enjoy doing them, building my standings, and providing my corp with a bit of subsistence income to help keep the pos in fuel.this is why i am so against level 4s being moved to low sec. that would force me to do pvp, which i avoid like the plague because i don't enjoy it, i am really bad at it, and every time i lose a ship it takes me weeks to recover. i would rather leave the game and free up those 7-8 hours a week to spend them more with my partner or just sleep!, than be forced to be exposed to everything i don't enjoy.sorry for the whine - apparently i enjoy playing the martyr as well"
"tip: if you have the isk, it's considerably more cost-effective to just buy a 400m isk cnr than farm the 600k lp + spare raven for it. turn your lp into implants & faction ammo which gives a much better rate of return.that to the side, i appreciate your dilemma, but surely you can see that those who are prepared to risk their ships and make the effort to form teams should have access to better rewards than those who dont? by the sound of it, you are quite prepared to run level 3s anyway, and by your own admission, are better suited to them.having said that, if missions are reformed in nature as well as location, then you might find them considerably more engaging and maybe not nod off while doing them i can sympathise with this... running missions back to back for a few hours is pretty soporiffic.i notice your are a member of a corp. what are their thoughts? would you not give each other support, arrange scouts, create intel channels, negotiate with local pirates, etc if you missioned in lo-sec? missioning in lo-sec is risky, but there are many many ways to reduce that risk if people care to try."
"i prefer less blobs and better/harder enemies. automatically reduces loot less npc's, probably increases chance for better meta level loot to compensate. some ideas:why for example does a rat never warp out and come back later partially/fully repaired? there could be a small repair station in the deadspace at x km for example. players are then rewarded if they warp scramble the npc. let a npc bs make use good use of drones. all this talk about nanos and i have never seen an npc go faster then 500 m/s except some spider drones. have neut/scram towers in lvl 4 missions.better chance to find faction loot? less but more powerful enemies will do that. don't know about fw, but seems a good idea.sure.would be nice, but maybe it's easier simply to add some more agents of the same quality in quiet regions. i don't see why not? i think they are just fine in high sec. easy to say if you live in 0.0 or low sec. maybe, by helping the factions war effort by supplying t1 items in exchange for a standing increase with diminishing returns?"
"yes, absolutely no argument there. i would prefer though that reward is increased elsewhere than nerfed where i am. however, as i know that i can make a living running 3s off a decent agent, i am equally sure i can make as good a living off a poor level 4 agent... i am not convinced though that the type of player who enjoys nil or low sec life will enjoy mission-running there, but it takes all sorts so i'm sure there will be a few!i die in low sec. within minutes usually. it's only since i trained up cov ops frigs and cov ops cloaking device that i've been able to run the courier missions that step into low sec... and i've even podded under full cloak as well thanks for the education there m4n1cm1n3r. my death to jump ratio in low sec was about 1:3 before the buzzard - so i just didn't go there.i don't enjoy pvp, so i don't go low sec. i had the level 3 new horizons mission a while ago, and stage 7, one of the most rewarding, happened to fall into low sec... i had no compunction in refusing the mission and moving along. i will fly through low sec if i absolutely have to, but i will not fight there. lord knows my friends from earlier corps who have long since moved on into nil sec, some bob-affiliated, some goon-affiliated, and others with different loyalties still constantly try to get me to come to nil sec and make better use of my 11 mil sps in gunnery, but it's just not for me.i think that the options should be better for those who do enjoy pvp though - just because i don't like it is no reason to punish those who do, and the increased risk should definitely = increased reward. the same argument goes the other way as well of course"
"1 missions need to be made more dynamic and unpredictableif missions were less farmable and more challenging, this would increase the \"fun\" for carebears like me but also the risks, which would alleviate some of the anti-carebear gripes. also, i fully agree with malcanis on this: if pve was more like pvp meaning fittings and tactic required, esp. at level 3 and 4, going low sec and dealing with pirates would be less of an issue.2 mission pay-out in low-sec and 0.0 needs improvementtrue. i currently see no valid financial reason to mission low sec because the risk is too hight compared to the reward. however, i still think this won't entice many missioners to go low sec, nor do i think that current low sec dwellers will start doing missions. this change would promote fairness, but wouldn't change much else.3 module loot has a negative impact on the economy by making t1 production obsolete and injecting too many minerals into the economytrue. missioning shouldn't be mining, and there should be different kind of rewards so that both professions have a valid place. just to be clear: it shouldn't be a way to 'punish' carebearism, which seems high on the agenda of some louder voices. 4 missions in factional warfare require improvementsdon't know about this one since i haven't been in fw yet.5 mining missions require improvementsdon't know about this one, never done one.6 agents are static, resulting in overloaded mission hubs, desire to have agent quality made dynamici'm not sure about this one. is it really solving a problem or just an attempt to make life harder for missioners? i agree some mission hubs are quite busy, so solving that would be good. it could also just lead to an amount of silliness with people moving around a lot and accomplishing nothing much. 7 level 4 missions in their current form do not belong in high-security spacethis is the plea of low sec pirates wanting a nice target rich environment of expensive ships they can blow up in organised gangs while the solo missioners are just rolling the dice every time they fly out. i'll admit that there are problems with rewards on several issues missions being too static and farmable, rewards being too high for missions, pvp / pirating not rewarding enough, but this is not a good solution. pirates are often quite vocal, so they can be heard far and wide, but that doesn't mean that they know how to solve problems with missions. they do now how to solve their own problems in a risk-free way for them. only if ccp considers missioning without pvp shouldn't be a valid carreer option for combat players more then 6 months old should they even remotely consider this.there are problems, so lets solve them. just don't solve them in a way that cuts out the legs under one professional option to the advancement of another professional option.8 standing is being monopolized by missions no ways to get standing outside of mission running, with the exception of fw standingtrue ... but there are several types of missions for several professions, so what's wrong with this? perhaps the types of mission need to be expanded or a bit more free-form like a 'tag office' where you can turn in criminal tags for standing and a payment instead of formally accepting a mission to kill criminals, but i don't see how else this would be accomplished. in conclusionyeah, missioning could use some changes. esp. at the high end, the challenge should be harder in an interesting way, not just more firepower and/or npcs, there are some issues with reward vs. risk and missioning shouldn't make a profession like mining or manufactoring unrewarding.but really, lets talk solutions that keep missioning open as a valid and fun career option and don't give in to anti-carebear sentiment, esp. that of pirates demanding easy targets in low sec."
"mineral prices are low because of the macro miners. supply vs demand my friend. the problem is they are artificially low because a macro miner doesn't place a price on his or her time since they are not actively wasting it. they only place a price on the mineral which means actually mining, as oppose to macro mining, is far less rewarding than it should be.yes this would make everything else more expensive, but i have no problem with that as it would bring mining more into a reward balance with missions. it would also be a significant boost to low sec and .0 mining because those area's would be easier to mine than grabbing missions in high sec."
"when did i mention miners scanning things out? they can if they want to mine someone else's mission but if they want to mine they can just get a mission of their own.the whole point is to give some downside to high sec and make mining more difficult for macro miners inside empire space where they are safe more or less. you can still mine, you just need to work at it just like mission runners do in high sec. we can make more money ratting and running in .0 but we choose not to because the risk is higher and some people simply don't want to risk it regardless of the reward. getting an agent is easy, getting the right mission is easy. just make one type of agent entirely mining missions and problem solved.i agree that lvl 5's are basically pointless, the additional risk involved comes no where near the reward from what we can currently tell."
"1 agreed2 agreed3 there is a thread in features and ideas forum where the devs are talking about removing t1 loot drops and replacing them with componants for manurfactoring t1 and possibly tii named meta items.this would boost the mineral markets, as well as the mining profession as that would be a lot less loot being reprocessed into minerals.would also be a great boost to industry. i believe this to be the best solution to removing ti loot which is mostly worthless anyway.4, 5, and 6 agreed7 removing missions to low sec or otherwise nerfing them is not the solution imo and will cause more problems than it solves.last time the devs tried to nerf lv4 missions when they were planning level 5, 6, and 7 missions it caused a mutiny of complaints on the forums, and if forced through, would be very damaging to the game as you pointed out, a lot of players would quit.8 supported, the main reason i grind missions atm is not for the isk, but for the standings needed to use jump clones, put up empire pos's, use research agents ect...alternative methods of raising standings would definately be welcome.overal you have assessed the situation with a mostly unbiased viewpoint for which i aplaud and support.thank you"
"damb dude, change your aftershave or something - you're attracting pirates way too much. i don't even see people on gates in a 1:9 ratio. if you're getting caught that often - or at all in a covops - you're doing something very wrong.actually you might be able to spin a lucrative career as a baitship pilot. a supertanked domi or scorp can absorb a huge amount of punishment, and some people, by which i mean me, would love to have such a proficient pirate-procurer in gang more seriously, solo play is the problem here; pirate are working in co-ordinated teams. you're doing stuff solo. the results are as predictable as the solution is obvious. in my experience when people say \"i don't like pvp\" what they actually mean is \"i don't like always losing at pvp\". fair enough i guess, but it's very possible to remedy that."
"wtf - how are you still alive. missions give your brain rot.in fact, this probably has impaired your judgement, and the game would be better without you. you bring nothing but lag, whining, and market disruption.anyway, yeah, /supported."
"can't argue with lag & whining, but not market disruption no - i hardly ever use the market except to buy several ten thousand rounds of ammo and a few drones to replace losses.not everyone who runs missions is a farmer doing it because it's the best reward for minimum risk."
"simple and elegant... i like it.especially compared to ccp's proposal!"
"i approve.+1 shc"
"i support this idea, was also thinking, what about if activating a mwd reduces your agility, therefore in a straight line you can reach same speeds but decreases your ability to orbit at high speeds?"
"note: i've not read the eight pages of commentary, and am responding to the op only.i like the idea in principle, though i think that the implementation you suggested would make make mwds completely obsolete for combat ships. combat ships would need to have an ab to increase mobility in combat, and mounting both is prohibitive on most ships for grid and slot reasons.as an alternative, i'd propose that mwds be changed to operate in several modes. the full-speed mode would work as you suggested, granting high combat speeds at the expensive of firepower. a reduced-speed mode would give ab-level mobility but allow full combat capability. switching modes would be accomplished either by use of a script, or automatically the speed boost is damped whenever the ship activates weapons, and remains damped for some cool-down period after they are deactivated.in effect, this would allow a ship to mount a normal ab and a non-combat mwd in a single slot.as you said, certain things like polycarbs and snakes will still need some adjustment."
"i like your alternative of 2 mode + off drive as long as cap is returned for ab mode"
"that's bogus, mwd will still be better for positioning in a fight and reaching your target in any possible way.supportin' the op."
"sarm is smarter than me, thus i must concur."
"tl;dr, but if sarmaul started it i support it with my hadns and feet.sarmaul > ccp, tbfh"
"nothing is going to change their minds, but ok."
"from the looks of it you could be wrong on this one."
"i'm honestly sick and tired of this:corp: \"we're forming a roaming gang.\"me: \"what should i bring?\"corp: \"you fly a vaga... duh\"me: \"i can actually fly two entire races worth of ships, need anything else?\"corp: \"oh yeah, then bring the ishtar.\"me: /facepalmi would really like to see some of the other ships, that i can theoretically fly, become somewhat useful this century."
"well, if you play a mmo game just for missions, maybe you should find some nice single player game, it will cost you less. i agree, that changes like this are a bit drastic. the quantity of missions could be changed, or rebalancing hisec lvl4 missions could be in another way. but you are wrong, the lack of agentrunners who rarely wanders to lowsec to \"pvp\" will be highly compensated with new agentruneers who will run missions in lowsec.i dont think agentrunners contribute to significant part of the market, cause they lose ships very rarely.agentrunners you are describing who rarely come to lose their ship in lowsec have no good loot already. if no lvl4s in highsec, i think we could see some nice faction ships to come in lowsec to run missions :alliances have ratting belts. carebears should not be already buying deadspace stuff, cause of suicide ganks. i can speak for this very confidetly, i was scanning many agentrunners ships for several weeks now and scanned hundreds ships. i can tell, that in very packed and some mediocre packed hubs i have found less than ten pilots, who has fits worth more than 1 bil. but on the other hand, deadspace gear prices are rising. go figure.you shouldnt ever buy isk, its against eula. if people need isk, they can buy some gtc and sell them for isk. good for them, good for ccp.yes, ithink people will gank agentrunners in lowsec."
"short answer: you are deluded if you think that people will bring a fat ship in low sec, especially if it cost several months to get it."
"long answer:just for missions, no, but they make a important part of eve for a good percentage of the players. make the mission practically unavailable and you will lose players. after spending a month to get a bs running 1 mission/day no one will risk it in low sec. someday open the map and look the high sec ship losses. beside the ship losses even teh change in ammunition consumption will change the market. to repeat, you are deluded if you think that someone will easily risk a ship for wick he spent a month doing missions. so alliances will be ratting belts to get faction and officer mod that no one ill buy?and you think that if a similar drastic change was implemented rats bounties will stay the same? the bounties were incremented to compensate the ease of getting missions. if this idea was implemented the belt rats would give the same rewards as mission rats. you are deluded again. you seem guided by the thought that agentrunners love to lose ships to pirates. no, they find it annoying if they are rick, if they are poor they find it devastating.this idea will make them poor, so they will not risk devastating losses."
"nano***s make important part of eve too, so do suicide gankers, so do nos users, so do lvl4 hisec agentrunners. so what ? if it happens, one aspect of game outweights others, something should be done. right now, no other profession grants more riskless money like missions. sure, you can trade billions sitting in jita, but you need to always babysit your orders and its limited. no supply, no items for you, no profit. missions are unbalanced. you can do as many of them as you want, its unlimited source of money. a little investment to faction gear caldari navy, nobody suicide ganks for this and you can earn nice money. but in lowsec you can do more missions not 5, i said it can be changed to other numer or other mechanic, like quality. you could do lvl4s in highsec but get crap rewards and go to lowsec to get nice rewards. risk vs rewards like devs are telling us, you mission for 1 hr and have a new t2 fit ship after insurance, or you can do missions in high sec and earn that amount money in like 5 or 7 hrs. oh yeah, i have never heard about wars aswell... free market economy, less demand, less profit, some producers will switch to other goods. well, if you dont want to risk, dont come out of highsec, do less proditable highsec missions. if you spend one month to get a t2 fit ship, you might aswell uninstall the game."
"so why you deleted the part where i showed, that expensive mods wont lose their value. they are not used only by agentrunners. you seem dont understand what is wrong today. ok, lets say we have simiral earning with both lvl4s in hisec and ratting in 0.0. so what would most people choose ? of course lvl4s, cause there is only tiny bit of risk i could say there is no risk at all. in 0.0 you earn less, cause you cant rat 24/7. gangs roam, and what if some guy decides to afk cloak in your system ? again, you can sit in highsec."
"see this:"
"how do you propose to handle corp insured ships?and *dont* say - mail ceo/directors."
"i support this idea. as a pos manager, i know how soul destroying large scale logistics are. experienced large scale pos workers have even authored php or xml based fuel managers to deal with pos management. this idea would simplify life to an unimaginable degree. i wholeheartedly support this issue."
"i agree.my post in greyscale's thread"
"i've noticed more than once that insurance has been quite a contentious issue in eve. it is currently on a provisional schedule for removal with the next coming patch. some have proposed that insurance should be completely removed, but i believe there is a middleground - adding realism.insurance is a business of risk. it makes little sense for an insurance company to offer the same benefits to pilots with starkly different 'safety records'.in short, the modifications proposed are:- those who rarely lose ships can receive 'full' insurance benefits current system- those who regularly lose ships will have to pay higher premiums and receive lower payouts- the insurance one receives is based on recent activity e.g. insured ships lost in the last montha possible addition:- devolve insurance to the factions: make it possible to insure with corporations loyal to your faction, so your standings are made to matter more. this would be particularly useful for the faction militias."
"and, i support this idea, scagga!"
"like this."
"support."
"great even more carebear buffs."
"so, in short, the 0.0 players get the shaft?please consider the economics of attacking a cynojammed system. you need battleships, dozens and dozens and lots and many of them. the casualties are like a scene from the wild bunch. it's horrifically expensive even with insurance, and a majority of such attacks fail, meaning that you often have to try 2, 3 even 4 times.tl;dr: sov3 becomes virtually unbreakable unless the participants are wildly over-matched."
"i do visit 0.0. often, and i find you can make a lot more money there. isn't it true that the richest groups in the game live in 0.0.? don't you think this will encourage those few with obscene wealth to help equip their armies perhaps? haven't many people in 0.0. been complaining about insurance all-together? furthermore, aren't more ships are lost in empire space than 0.0.?i might be wrong though, please point out if i'm not understanding this right.the cynojammer issue is something completely different that does, in my opinion, need addressing elsewhere."
"people should not be punished even further for pvp, what you propose would be a serious disincentive to people getting into it.the only people that would benefit from this are high sec missioners/traders. there are already too few incentives for players/corps to move into low sec/00, making their losses hurt even more is the exact oposite of the way changes should be going.insurance may have issues, there's no denying it you only have to look at tii insurance rates but anything that is a disincentive to pvp is just a horrible direction to move in. this game would be absolutely terrible if it were restricted to pve, the game as it stands cannot exhist without it."
"dont agree, pvp would suffer too much with this change"
"hello eve population, thank you for taking the time to read this proposal.as an avid trader, i do love the eve economy. my experiences have indicated that there is, however, plenty of untapped potential. the improvements i would suggest are as follows:contracts: 'the standing order'in eve, it is not uncommon for contractual agreements to be formed between different corporations, between the members of single corporation, or between independent individuals. for regular business however, it can become tedious to constantly renew contracts, or send new requests based on changing demands...this is where a standing order can help. the standing order would be a feature of contracts, renewing a contract under conditions set by the user. e.g. corp a is contracted by corp b of 0.0. alliance c to maintain their pos fuel supplies at their empire stockpile at a certain level. the standing order tool will set up a contract at an interval set by corp b, requesting whatever amount of whatever product is needed to keep the stockpile at the agreed level. if demand changes, the contracts will automatically adjust.this example can be modelled to many situations faced when engaging in contracting in eve. here, the 'standing order' greatly reduces workload and may allow more time to pursue more profitable activity. furthermore it may allow pilots to be absent without worrying that a logistics chain will 'break down'. it may also allow business relations between corporations to reach a much higher level of complexity."
"p.s. i am very happy to modify the idea if feedback can point out ways to refine it further :poh, and i support my idea."
"yes, the contract system needs improvement and streamlining. it's far better than escrow, of course, but there's still plenty of room for improvement. and this is as good a start as any - contracts that do not expire upon acceptance, but stay around either indefinitely or while some conditions are met. good thinking."
"very good idea to increase corp-to-corp trading and logistics. no downside. i support!"
"i was also thinking that contracts could be further enhanced if they allow temporary positive standings. e.g. you hire a corp to do some logistics work for a time period. they are automatically blue for the duration off that contract requires director status to enable such contracts. it helps reduce the load on setting standings and makes it easier to enforce prompt completion of work i.e. your standings expire at xth of august!"
"good idea! it could even work for internal contracts within corps.supported"
"interesting mechanism."
"i hadn't think about that, true."
"i especially like this idea. supported."
"not sure if it's viable or useful, but wouldn't it be nice to have a cockpit view to tie in with ambulation and some tweaked controls to go along with it."
"wtf well i guess ccp won't be introducing coc-kpits"
"sigh.you're piloting your ship from a goo-filled pod. not a co ckpit"
"enough pedantry."
"its not pedantry, its how the game is. it would be ******ed to have a cockpit view, because the ships dont have cockpits. we have pods instead. would be completely incongruous with ambulation and the atmosphere of eve."
"the jovian wetgravecamera dronesread the above stories, and then continue this discussion.what you're seeing is the \"c0-ckpit\" view. your character is immersed in a sensory deprivation chamber filled with neutrient goo... picture the matrix.what you're seeing when you zoom in and out, and pan around your ship, is the video feed from the drones that supply info to the pilot within.then when the pilot thinks to himself \"i want to kill that guy\", the ship locks on and starts firing."
"eve fluff ftw!!!"
"you call it fluff i call it immersion, thanks gideon for at least adding something to the discussion instead of just base eve-o trolling."
"***shameless bump-age***anybody else wanna digg this and please read my original thread tht i linked"
"it would have been nice if you could have posted your idea here instead of a link.i like the idea. however, i don't really see the problem with having fighters at all pos's regardless of sec rating.i don't feel comfortable with the idea of a doomsday device on pos. certainly not on one in anything but 0.0. even in 0.0, it'd just be too powerful.regards,windjammer"
"supported."
"in this general discussion thread, it was asked how we could improve the war declaration system. here are my suggestions:1. increase the cost of creating a corporation significantly at least 100 million isk2. allow the defenders a one-time bribe of concord ~50 million to postpone the beginning of the war for 1 week3. create a tangible means for displaying how a corporation can win a war - whenever the corporation starts the war they set out objectives, including:-isk destroyed-ships destroyed by type-membership reduced % or #-closing of corporation-removal of corporate offices4. when a corporation completes all their objectives or retracts the war without completing them, it can be displayed from the corporate show-info screen as medals. gives victors bragging rights but also lets a defending corporation shame their opponents by denying them objectives.5. allow defending corporations to involve a 3rd party in the war-declaration system through mercenary contracts. they will function the same as an offensive war dec complete with war medals with the exception that they pay no fee as long as the attacking corporation maintains the war.6. inhibit corp hopping to prevent war declarations - whenever leaving a corporation at war, players with roles must wait at least 72 hours before leaving the corporation."
"i don't like any of your ideas, but i approve of them anyway.*thumbs up*"
"i, as someone who is certainly not tarminic's alt, also support this idea."
"wardec system is broken and pay to griefsupported."
"agree 95%! add the below and ill make it 100 :pnew players in starter corps are tax free ect3 months in 25% tax on all income6 months 50%9 months 75%12 months 100%force people out of the starter corps this way, too many poeple hide behind noob corps, when they should be just for new players"
"i think this is a great idea."
"yes, it may sound crazy...introductionmany pilots have experience of seeing odd pirate gates, either in missions, or in 0.0. what if it were possible to search for hidden routes off the beaten path? in my opinion, making specialist knowledge like this available would serve tactically, shorten trade routes and add to eve's exploratory dimension.to find a hidden gate...to find a hidden gate would require probing. the gate would not be in workable condition when first found - and it would not be known where it leads to. the gate would need repairs, as well as an energy source cap charges? to stay running when repaired. possible addition i don't think this part would passif the gate is not managed, it will fall into disrepair. if the gate remains in a state of disrepair for a month, it breaks down and can no longer be found i.e. is redistributed. the reason i don't think this will pass is that the change may require a patch each time a gate needs to be changed programming hell, too.conclusionif implemented, this would increase the value of 'knowing' one's home space - be beneficial on the combat, mining, trade etc fronts. it would however foster a kind of responsibility maintaining the gate, and on occasion - protecting it."
"supporting..."
"additional information: - these hidden gates would be located in low sec, being of pirate construction."
"like the idea"
"has my support"
"further thoughts on the matter:- to be able to use a hidden stargate, you also have to have the stargate it goes to operational in the instance that both gates are hidden"
"uhm..... there already are \"hidden stargates\" in the game. they don't work anything like what you list here..... but, they are there.you just need to look around a lot to find them......"
"the problem i have with this is that once the gates are found, they're just more gates, except that they require reopening of the insta market. all you're doing is hammering the jita server, and expanding the warp network a little. that's not really a good thing. now, you could fix that by making these gates highly transient. but then who will search for them? ultimately, i'll stick with the present method of creating new stargates - either get a titan, or get sov 3 on both sides, and use a jump bridge. it's not as interesting, but it actually works."
"/me nodsi would like to restate that the idea would have the gates as being exclusive to low sec. there would, at any time, be a maximum number of 'hidden' gates, with upkeep requirements. i imagine that the benefit of having these gates may encourage use of low sec e.g. pvp'ers, traders, resource users etc having a secret route to their base?but naturally as you said we must consider the serverside issues, i'll give the idea more thought for now."
"your skilled mechanic wouldn't be able to remove the speed governor for the same reason he can't make modifications to anything outside of fitting modules, rigs and implants.in the end, it really doesn't matter. the storyline justification is merely added color and as ccp has shown on most changes, isn't necessary at all. once again, the storyline justification can be made to fit or be entirely changed in content so that it will fit.....or be entirely absent.as indicated in the op of this thread, a speed cap is preferred instead of a nerfing of many items which effect speed. the more modules, implants and rigs you nerf, the wider spread and more unpredictable the effects. the point is, it affects more than just speed when you do so. so if speed is the only consideration, nerf the speed and leave the rest alone.it's simple, it's direct and it's more controlled to hard cap the speeds of the ships as opposed to so many other changes. four guys sitting down for 5 hours doesn't give me a lot of confidence in the outcome of their deliberations when so much is being affected by what they came up with other than speed. even the dev blog itself indicates these are ideas they want input on and are not written in stone, etc. a clear indication that they, themselves, are not 100% certain all the nerfs will be beneficial.windjammer"
"i really dislike hard caps on speed...it just seems like a crutch of the same type that you see in games with invisible walls. sorry, but i can't support this."
"i often have 300+ items in my hanger and its a real pain to find the specific one that i want. it would be extremely nice and relatively simple to implement on the client side a search/filter for the hanger.it would work like this:you have a little search box in the top right of the items window when you're docked. when you type into it the items window will show only items whose name contains the string you've entered case insensitive of course. then to reset it you simply click the x or some other icon next to the box, and the items window will display all items in your hanger again.this can be easily implemented client side so there will be no extra database load."
"i am grann thefauto and i approve this message."
"suicide ships...there's a lot that can be said about their tactical uses.a stepwise approach to explaining the idea further:1. a highslot module 500m3 as an item to avoid easy transport that can hold a single bomb the same bombs that stealth bombers can currently use. 2. fitting this module poses penalties for the ship.a for a frigate, the module will take up most of its grid, leaving some extra grid that would accomodate a microwarpdrive with much difficultyb no weapons can be fitted - i.e. no guns, launchers, drones etcc armor and structure hitpoints are also reduced by 50% making room for the bomb charge - however, this also reduces mass.d suicide ships do not pay out insurance3. to detonate the charge you need to activate the relevant highslot after arming the bomb, which will instantly detonate the ship, causing the same damage as the detonation of a normal bomb. if a suicide ship is destroyed by hostile fire of any type, the charges will fail to detonate. this includes being hit by the blast of another suicide ship.4. how much should a suicide ship cost? i would propose:a the module to hold the bomb: 1mil isk needs to be invented from a cruise missile launcher bpcb the bomb charge itself correct me if i'm wrong are usually 2-6mil isk apiece. so the cost for a suicide frigate would be approximately 5-10m isk.5. legality: suicide frigates, being unethical weapons of war, would be illegal in high security space - you will be concorded if you undock in one they can be assembled there, however. however, unlike stealth bomber 'bombs', they would work in low security space willing to concede that, that's just a suggestion.6. skill requirements: to fit out a suicide frigate should require frigate 5 and the bomb deployment skillthere's more to say on the topic, which i will add later."
"*braces for the flames*supporting"
"i like this idea,i have had a simular idea to this but would work for any ship:'ramming speed' would cause an explosion instead of a bump, the damage caused would take into account the size of ships involved and relative speeds, i.e frigate hitting bs would dp little damage, bs hitting a frigate if it could catch it! would pretty much certainly destory the firgate while most likely leaving bs in tact if heavily damaged. thso my idea was trounced by the physics being to difficult. i like this one though as it reduces the need for impact physics :d"
"i do think the idea of being able to send in home-made suicide frigates will scare the bejeezus out of blobs...especially if they are warped into a blob in a staggered formation... which leaves me thinking, should it be possible to set a fuse on the bomb in case of lag?"
"nope. people will just use blobs of these ships spread out further thoughout the grid. 5mil cost each is a bit irrelevant, even 50mil is not that expensive. all that would happen is bunches of these ships doing logon traps and blobingbut spread out further etc etc.nothing wrong with current blob at all. lag is the bad thing. people confuse blob with lag. insted of fixing blobs, you should be asking ccp to fix lag."
"consider this:the suicide ship would possibly have an effective blast radius of 15km, but will only do 8k of a particular damage. this is not enough to destroy anything bigger than a cruiser. i don't think that would be effective against a heavy fleet, unless they were sent in a staggered formation. the counter to the problem you have mentioned about login traps is different however - the counter to this may be a 5-10 second delay in detonation?i would imagine the suicide ships best effective in a fleet battle, sneaking through unnoticed into the midst of the battle to destroy swathes of drones, wrecks, pods, half-destroyed ships. alone, they would most likely not be fleet breaking, but a hazard that could worry a light fleet faced by a small number of diehard defenders.regarding the blob/lag thing, i've not suggested that either are a problem that this will 'deal' with, only what their effect may have on existing structures."
"wouldn't this just be adding another aoe weapon to fleet warfare? never even seen a titan myself but isn't the amount of lag caused by a dd crippling.....adding more aoe weapons seems as though it may be a step in the wrong direction with the current lag issues."
"so, the reason why you don't agree with this is because of lag, not because of actual gameplay? ugh.."
"don't get me wrong i'm not necessarily against it. i just thik that implementing new features like this should come secondary to fixing the current issues and not be implemented at all if it has a further negative effect."
"soon ;"
"/me pictures a 200-strong suicide frigate gang finding a titan.ok. this idea sounds interesting. it has my support.ps: make self-destructing send out a 40km 5000hp shock-wave all damage types. make self-destructing a viable pvp tool. hehe."
"basically its a stealth bomber that can instantly fire insted of longer fuse. this would hurt game balace a lot. but the point is, you have to clearly define what the problem with the blob is so you can design a niche ship to counter it.because such a ship does not remove the blob. people will blob away but with more distance between them in the grid, or use even more numbers to make up for any losses. the problem has not been solved, it has been transfered, and even then, we do not know what the problem is."
"note, a stealth bomber that blows itself up too!yes, i otherwise agree - it does not remove the blob. however, we are cognizant that this was an application, rather than the core purpose of the idea :p"
"yes you can.search for contracts as normal and set the minimum price to 1 isk. it will now show all orders with a positive price - and therefore cut out all wtb contracts."
"contracts ui in general needs reworked."
"i support this idea, free feature or as an new effect of contracting skill, or even as a new skill, for my simple view is always half filled with absolutly irrelevent contracts."
"more database filling and potential lag?? no thanks. if you increase it now, you will need to increase it again and again and again until jita is even more gridlocked.how about a little bit more thought into prevention? not trying to be an ass btwi agree with the intent of the message, just not the implementation. so meh."
"join an alliance then, it costs more to dec an alliance. wardecs have already been nerfed once, we don't need another one just because someone loves autopiloting their freighters through high-sec.as a counter, i propose that you make it possible to dec single characters who are in npc corps. this would prevent corporations and macro-miners from exploiting npc corps as a safe haven from war decs."
"decs do not need a significant nerf. i'd say make the cost proportional to size, so that 150 man pvp corps have some incentive to target larger corps without removing the possibility of it if there's a real reason to. it's all about incentive."
"the only issue i see here is that you somehow feel you should be forming a corp when you have no way to defend yourself."
"some of the real world's largest corporations started from a corner stall. i think it should be possible to do that in eve as well."
"when you start a corp, you raise a flag saying \"here i am, in the big league now\". if you're not ready to defend your corp, you're not ready to form a corp."
"it is entirelly possble. you just have to live with and accept that you will get war decced and plan accordingly."
"looking at the last two dev blogs i would say ccp will be shortly with you, holding your hand."
"something should be changed.there are tons of \"concerned pvpers\" that stronly demand for a strong nerf to npc corps. and be honest, 5-10 people \"buddy\" corps with all chars having less than ~5mill sp are the target for a lot of peoples war decs. even today its better to either stay in npc corps, or go to 0.0 and mandatory join some large 0.0 alliance, as a small corp will get even deader on its own in 0.0.and everyone knows why 0.0 is starting to look silly \"yeey we loaded grid after 45 minutes, now lets just hope that we load enemy ships... eventually\". and forcing small corps into huge 0.0 blobs constricts the sandbox. small corp will get wardeced in high sec, obliterated by pirate corps with caps and supercaps in low sec, and be completely absorbed in 0.0. not quite some choices you have there..."
"thumbs up for general support of this idea. however, as mentioned previously in this thread, ccp will be changing the war dec mechanisms in the near future. they are aware of the griefing abuse and are intent upon making changes to alleviate it.best regards,windjammer"
"you cant remove nonconsentual pvp from eve. im very carebearish, and i still wouldn't want to see senseless boat violence nerfed.you could do one or two of fallowing:declaring war on a corporation smaller than your corp/alliance would be exponentially increasing in cost. so if a 0.0 alliance wants to blow some annoying leeches out of the water, in highsec, just for the principle, it can afford it, but usualy it shouldn't be worth the $$$. if a semi serious pirate corp with couple dozen players wants to war dec a 10 person newbie corp, they would have to pay trough their nose. second. paying concord to delay war dec by one week, only once per war, scaling up on cost based on number of people in your corp.though even as i type those i see they would either be too ineffective, or too good at preventing noncon pvp."
"the op has a point. there's a lot of people who want to abuse the war-dec system:1 i'll sit in the relative safety of high-sec space.2 i'll be allowed to kill newbies.3 it's pretty much cost-free to do.i'm pretty sure this isn't what ccp intended, and it's really a game-breaker... not everyone wants to, or should have to, join an old and established corp because there is no alternative way of getting by in high-sec save for staying in the noobie-corp forever.starting a small new corp with a few friends early in the game should be an option, without receiving multiple war decs, week after week after week, from pirates in hacs who like to shoot rifters while remaining safe themselevs. it shouldn't be necessary to have inside connections so you can get into an alliance...personally, i think all these \"pirates\" should grow a set of balls and head into low sec, but since it's obviously not going to happen - i think the op has a point. something should be done... some ideas that have been tossed around in the past include:- more expensive wars, depending on how high security you want it to be legal in. for example, you could issue an 0.7 war dec for 1 mil isk and leave the corp safe in 1.0-0.8 systems, or you could pay up the 50 million for a full war, viable in 1.0 systems.- standing hits. concord agreeing to look the other way, doesn't mean an amarr is happy about having warship blowing ships up outside the emperor's family academy. while your sec status is fine, and no armed forces will interfere - declaring high sec war will lower your empire standings.there's more i'm sure, but these are some of those that hold merit for a very simple reasons: frivolous and pointless high-sec war has a steep cost. the second example for example means that these wannabe pirates will have to either cut down on their warsm or work like dogs on missions to maintain a standing high enough to remain in the empire. wars for a reason are still very possible, and the damages can be undone. it's however no longer possible to repeatedly gank newbie corps.of course... it would be a problem for the few legitimate, honest to god, real mercenaries out there. but yeah... something needs to change.i like the way eve lets us mind our own business and take the war to the enemy when we need to. however... it's abused more than it's used properly. it's tragic, and since we can't change people - maybe, just maybe, we need to slightly alter the rules of engagement."
"i agree with arna padrona, and i trust ccp to handle the problem with finesse and maybe a little zaz. - resaec fitsuga"
"arna,your post was ok up until you were telling others to grow a set of balls and go to low sec whilst sitting in your high sec bunker. that kind of crap right there leads to more war decs than most i do believe.topic:i am not a big fan of flagging and unfortunately this seems to where this leading to. i do agree that there are some corps that seem to pick on the weak because they do not want to lose and or padding there e-peen k/d ratio is their end game. this needs to be looked at on how to curb this. however i would not like to see the option to kick a little corp's ass because he is being a smack tard and deserves a whoopin. you need to put in place a reason for these guys to go after a fatter target. nerf batting the problem never really solves the problem. i think by creating incentives you will see less of the griefing. you will never see the end of it because you will have players always saying they are being griefed no matter how old they are.it can be done by establishing some incentive/penalty to take on other corps/alliances. establish corp standings. the higher the standing the better the benefits. cheaper office rentals, alliance fees, corp fees, taxes, repair fees, war dec fees etc. i figure you guys might come up with other thingscorp standings can be affected by the corp age, size, assets and who you war dec. so a warring corp will be more apt to attack a larger corp with an equal or higher standing. to lower your status, by attacking n00b corps, the corp will find it self paying higher fees as in higher war dec fees. have a war chest: 01% to .05% tax per month of the value of the corp. gives an incentive to go after fat loot. so older corps will have higher ratings and fatter lot. so if a corp does not grow beyond 5 guys its corp standings still grow due to age of the corp and the war chest grows and making it a viable target giving the players time to get settled and experienced to fight back. having a negative corp standing increases the taxes to this chest making them a viable target also. so now you can have corps go after larger corps with a fat war chest instead of trying pound the little dude. because all you would get from the little dude is probably a couple million isk and a negative rating and your fees just went up. if they want to get their status up they need to do it by war deccing a corp with higher standings, increasing the size of there corp etc.another words if you have a small corp with minimal assets, personnel, creation date of the corp and etc. give them a status rating. as the corp grows and ages the standing raises. so even if they do try to keep it small to avoid such decs, there corp sanding still raises as time goes on. the lower the standing the more folks would look at you as just pathetic. ginger when he had october snow could have had a really high standing with a -10 personal sec status. sec status and corp standings would be two different things. you could be the nastiest son of a beached whale in eve. but your standings would be respectable and identify that pirate corp as one to be respected. this does have a rp edge to this, i admit. and it does unfortunately scream \"mah e-honor\" which sucks, but i do not know any other way out side the impending doom of the nerf bat and destroying good eve game play."
"i'll just throw this out there:i think a more reasonable and workable proposition would be for any implementation of alliance-owned gate guns in 0.0 to be more analogous to low sec gate guns. their function being to maintain 'law and order' more than being automated weapons of war, such that they only fire on pilots who are criminally flagged against the owning alliance, and their firepower is similar to low sec gate guns.that way anyone entering into combat with the territorial alliance in their space is subject to suppressing fire from all their gate guns. i just don't think you'll find sufficient support for pos-level fully automated guns at stargates."
"as ever, the details will almost inevitably need a lot of work, but the broad strokes here are good. and the fact that we have a goon and a star fraction working together to make a mutually agreeable plan for 0.0 sovereignty changes is just dumbfounding. what's next, mccain and obama picking each other as vp?"
"we're definitely finding the concepts people like, and pinpointing the ones people don't like. fahtim's jita park thread was a great way to get more ideas out without having to debate a particular proposal in its entirety. i'm glad that we highlighted that security, sovereignty and logistics are distinct concepts, and that a given system could have any combination of those three established to different extents. for instance, that an alliance might lay sovereign claim to a system, but have poor security. or that an alliance might establish firm sovereignty and security, without necessarily establshing industrial logistics.i think these are good starting principles that allow for a lot more variety in terms of what a given piece of territory might look like, in contrast to the current system where sovereignty security and logistics are all the same thing, based solely on how many pos are set up in system."
"i'm still working back at the other thread.the big strengths i like of this system are:1 sovereignty and economics/logistics separation2 lowers the potential amount of sov objectives in a system to a smaller, more consistent value planetsnot entirely satisfied on capability to distribute fleet fights across multiple grids.will keep shuffling around concepts over on the other thread to keep progressing towards a comprehensive solution."
"the hacking module current shows its worth in opening cans, amongst other delights... no, not amazing. i would propose that hacking should be useful for pvp - e.g. the ability to hack and disable offline a module on an enemy ship, with skills to specialise in hacking certain modules"
"i liked this one more than the specialist ammo - that one's off the wall."
"i like your crazy idea's."
"i had another thought about this - it will give ship scanners more of a role in pvp - so you can choose what module to target for hacking. this would be very useful in breaking away from a strong pirate ship - e.g. disable their warp disruptor?or imagine disabling a repper on a dreadnought? there's a lot of potential there."
"didn't think of hacking warp disruptors. that would need some careful balancing because else everyone would just fit a hacking module instead of some wcs."
"possibly, but then we must be aware that hacking is chance based. it really depends on the situation. in a gang they may go for tanking mods remote repairers, injectors etc, in a 1v1 they might go for the guns or reppers themselves - i'd imagine amarrians going for the white noise or the em active hardeners"
"i disapprove its a thing that just sounds cool but whould just be another pain in the butt for ppl that actually pvp, another to complex idea to implement.what should be able to do though is to hack secure containers and being able to can flip them."
"you're right, i should really try pvp out..."
"this idea gets my full supportlol 0.0 hacking mod on all ship titan comes in hack its dd noaz lol sounds fun ^^"
"sounds like the terran enforcer from e&b.te's were my favorite class, even though hacking was broken in that game. i'd love to see hacking in this game. being able offline modules would be best suited to some of the ewar ships. make a 2nd class of electronic attack frigs that get bonuses to hacking so they can offline random modules. nothing like being in the middle of a fight and being able to disable your enemy's local reps."
"hacking in pvp...i like."
"in laggy situations this would be god awfull for bothsides, this is already in eve anyway, its called lag and it prevents all your mods from going online, low med and hi slots"
"how is that relevant to what is being proposed thought? doesn't that apply to everything, anyway?"
"adding more complications much like what ew does anyway, but worse makes the game overcomplicated, you want to disable someone? nuet them, ew them why add a layer that does not need to be there and just adds complications to a fleet battle in which we are meant to be making less laggy rather than more so"
"this indeed has potential, but it will need to be implemented with great care lest you want yet another 9000 whine posts./signed"
"cyber warfare for the win./signed.***would love to be able to hack a titan and disable the doomsday device and jump-drive...***"
"come to think of it, it may be the only saving grace a titanless and cap-poor entity has against one when engaged!note: hacking modules only operate at a range of 5km."
"i have seen emergency warp break one warp scram at +1 strength. it will not warp under +2. i think this was more to allow a system where a ship in a mission that got disconnected can break the + 0.1 not accurate strength of an npc scram ship.i do supprot a change to the drone system. if i move my laptop out of range of the router it disconnects, if i move back in range it will reconnect. when setup properly why cant drones reconnect once you are back within range of them?"
"note: within the context of a logoffski in a pvp engagement; the scrambler will only have effect if it was engaged prior to the targets log off. if the target logs off before the scrambler engages, it will appear that the target is breaking the scramble during the emergency warp out and this will occur regardless of how strong the scramble is.good analogy on the reconnect issue. aptly put. why can't the drones reconnect when you get back in range of them? damn good question.regards,windjammer"
"i have listed below a few ideas i have regarding specialist ammunition:target-painting ammunition- seriously, i am surprised that none of the scientists of the 4 empires haven't introduced these things...- when a round of such ammunition hits a target, it increases the signature radius by 50% for a short period of time 10 seconds. each round stacks effect halves with each additional round.- the round does less damage than an equivalent t1 round- very useful against small shipsheavy kinetic ammunition- this type of ammunition has a very high mass also increased volume, etc- the purpose of this kind of ammunition is to physically 'push' the target ship- acts as a 'bumping agent' for stubborn ships on undock points, or if used on medium to small ships, can push them out of warp scrambling/disrupting/webbing range, or bump a ship in orbit to favourably change transversal- slows down the ship using them when loaded energy transmitted to additional counterthrusterscircuitry disrupting ammunition- little nanites can be gremlins in the works- lowers sensor strength of target ship transient, but does no damage"
"not sure if i support my own ideas, but hey."
"despite having the same velocity as regular cruise missiles, f.o.f. cruise will not hit agressed targets beyond ~79km standard cruise will hit, with a raven out to at least lock range with a sensor booster. for example, i get my fleet setup scorp you can use raven, scorp, pretty much any cruise missile boat, with a sensor booster and range script. have a buddy go out to ~90k and aggress you missiles, guns, ecm, anything. despite having the velocity to fly that far, you'll get the message 'arbalest cruise missile launcher has no valid targets in range' or something to that effect.i'm putting this here because it's been bugreported, attached to a defect, etc but not fixed. not just a sensor booster issue because it doesn't work up to the base lock ranges of some missile boats even without a sensor booster.fix it!"
"you're right. i didn't think you could move to the next step without completing something in the previous step. thanks for clearing it up."
"ok, so a warp disruptor has one point and cannot turn off a ships microwarpdrive, a warp scrambler has 2 points and turns off a microwarpdrive. so shouldn't something with infinite points turn it off as well? or fry it :p obviously this would only work in focused mode, but i think its stupid that dictors cannot disable mwds."
"if you can't be happy with your 30km infinity-point scram and aoe-ability, and the ability to lock down supercaps, then train for gallente recons."
"removing learning skills is a fail idea in my opinion. its all part of the game balance. would you also suggest that cccp do away with attribute implants? i believe attribute points help balance the game. not every character should have the same because each character is created with a different purpose in mind."
"i too am concerned that jade is the csm member with the largest amount of issues on this list. why is this? are there no other csm members that have issues to bring up that are supported by the players?"
"jade is the most liberal about seeing topics he likes and bringing them forward. others tend to only bring up issues they feel strongly about. i wish that more would be brought forward, because there's too many good topics that just sink without being noticed, but i don't think that the csm wants to spend twice as much time on meetings in order to bring forward everything, or that ccp would thank them if they did."
"i'm not an expert on computer networking, but i thought there was a fairly fundamental difference between bigger packets and more packets when it came to lagginessfor lack of a better word. making a packet bigger doesn't hurt too much - bandwidth is not an issue for people on high-speed internet, given that it's apparently possible to play eve on dialup - but sending out more packets is worse. also, isn't most of the problem the code base anyways? other games can handle 600 people in a room no problem, but the biggest server in gaming craps itself in fear. ccp was a garage operation when eve launched, forced into quick and dirty, and it's been reaming us ever since. it's better than not having the game, of course, but that's the real genesis of a lot of these problems, to my understanding."
"i'm kinda late to the party here but there's a bunch of good ideas here i had a system half written that was not a million miles away. planets need a lot of love under the current game mechanics, they should be the most important bodies in the sovereignty system and not just an empty warp point. this sounds good, and restores the status of planets. something i'd really like is for the final stage of occupying a planet to involve flying in troop transporters and deploying troops to capture the bunker located on the surface. troop transports would be a new shiptype a t2 hauler is the most obvious route to go with this, although if anyone has other suggestions i'd be interested to hear them with a siege mode required to deploy dropships. for added fun, the defenders would be able to smart-bomb the dropships as they flew to the bunker .in particular on the economic side i'd like to see the development of planetary industries which would take the place of the current empire-seeded pos consumables, and at higher sovereignty levels the introduction of npc logistics which would haul these consumables to the holding alliance's control towers these haulers would also be a viable small gang target for hostiles rolling through your space. cultural structures is something i'd never really thought of. are you envisioning a sort of rome:total war and probably a million other games which i haven't played too system where your populations have a 'loyalty rating' depending on your governance, with the potential to disrupt your economic and military structures or even revolt if you don't keep them happy? oh wow. please make this happen. i'm getting great mental images of a covops sneaking around the system with a cargohold full of spies and saboteurs delivering them to the various structures.as a final point its worth pointing out that not all planets would be inhabited or even inhabitable, and so planetary population isn't something that should apply to jupiter-type gas giants or scorched mercury-like rocks. having some systems virtually or even completely deserted and some with a heavy population might be an interesting development to distinguish systems from each other more."
"no. i'm talking about server side bandwidth load. it scales exponentially with the number of ships receiving updates about each others' actions. n-body problem. quadrupling the resources available will only double the maximum limit. headroom will get harder and harder to come by unless something is done."
"i like scatim's ideas about npc loot.i'm a little skittish about putting too much work into npc civilizations on the planets. considering this game is designed to be like a giant sandbox and there are like 100k players living in highsec who can be moved to 0.0 to establish 0.0 civilization, more infrastructure for ruling the serfs is a better solution i think.maybe combine the two to an extent.i'm chewing on some ideas i think everyone will like. in the meantime will see what happens with the assembly thread and see what kind of feedback its getting.going to be busy for the next few days, but will try to keep contributing."
"my thoughts on why the large sov-changing battles need to be across multiple grids have gotten a little clearer.problems:the timezone balancing system stront timers has the benefit of telling us when and where the showdown will occur. the two specific side-effects are:the skill of pilots and level of coordination and commander quality is greatly diluted as lag kicks in.lop-sided fleet battle is hopeless, but the pos system works to ensure that sov changing battles are fleet battles, thus if alliance numbers are hopeless and the enemy is committed, no level of skill and cunning can allow twenty pilots to levy their toll upon the enemymoar should be better. less should be less. but the way it is now, with fleet battles guaranteed after the stront timer runs out, less is nothing, and moar is everything. i'm exaggerating of course, but it's obvious that large fleet battles nullify the efforts of significantly outnumbered pilots.goals:timezone balancing is intact, but the field of battle is not a single objective. it's a series of simultaneous objectives that fall within the stront timer system. all objectives have significance to the fight, thus forcing an attacker to divide forces.but! if we divide forces, then the defender can just curbstomp our divided detachment! yes, this is why it would be necessary in this system to commit forces very carefully and try to keep the upper hand while playing as few cards as possible. this is what every great tactical victory in history has been based on. shaping the outcome so that a little application of an unadvertised reserve will turn the tide completely.multi-grid battle will also have the effect of vastly increasing the importance of mobility and influence optimal ship distributions downward towards cruiser and bc hulls. pinning an opponent with support will mean not only can they not get away, but that they can't re-deploy to go aid forces under attack.multi-grid combat brokered by the stront-timer system will be the most healthy thing in the development of eve."
"the gate guns idea worries me a little. lowsec gate guns have the unfortunate effect of restricting gatecamp composition to only those ships able to permatank them, and i wouldn't like to see the same limitations become a factor in 0.0 warfare - interceptors or dictors should be able to roam solo or in small groups and camp gates for careless residents without being vapourised by auto-defences the second they aggro a defender.the 'gate fortifications' idea is worth sticking with though, so maybe some sort of gate defences other than guns? e-war, or perhaps even remote reps?"
"pos's are gay. how come 0.0 powers have no cool structures compared to empire? why is our sov system so boring and our capability to build player empires so limited?proposal for the sov-holding planetary defense platforms:planetary defense platform is a large structure with anti-structure way, way, way bigger than dread firepower artillery for enforcing sovereignty the ability to build an empire-esque array of other structures at that planet. up to two can be built. they're separated in stable orbits with the planet in the way, so that they never actually see each other. if one is built at an enemy planet, it will start wiping out all the pos's and other structures in orbit, with the exception of other defense platforms. yay death stars. if you win sov or contest sov at a planet, say byebye to that planet's pos's.the structures are built in light of the fact that they won't survive the largest assaults and are designed instead to attempt to disperse attacking and defending force's interests to allow more room for tactical maneuvering and function as a more robust tool of sov.modulation arrays =dusing quantum entanglement power transfer, sensor array triangulation, and gravitational tide harvesting, it was made possible for an assistance structure to have a direct relationship with the main structure and to bolster its defenses. the added vulnerability of the satellite structures is seen as a trade-off whereby vulnerability to small threats is the price paid to force the distribution of large threats, the ones that a defensive structure is required to help cope with.pdp modulation array benefits:50% bonus to shield resists. the defensive systems of the platform work with the sensors of array to identify sources of incoming fire and modulate the shield to cope with them this boosts hp and shield recharge at the same time.25% bonus to power grid. extra guns at the main platform will come online.array interaction:after looking at the goals of what fahtim put into the low-orbit structures, i've decided to investigate sub-systems. they're very good force multipliers and also a very immersive game mechanic.array subsystems are sub-targets that have less hp than the array and are much, much smaller, representing the keyhole that a weapon must hit to penetrate defenses at a surgical level.subsystems are below the targeting capability of all caps, even triaging carriers. industrial repairs can't be done on surgical damage.to make damage seem logical weapons hit for full damage, regardless of how much gets through the keyhole perform damage calculations twice. once for the array. once for the subsystem. subtract the subsystem from the array amount and apply that to the array as a whole. the subsystem has its own hp.logistics cruisers and sb's are the new sexy in array warfare. sb's for having huge dps in tiny sig radius weapons and capability to dish it from afar. logistics for having inordinately huge...logistics capabilities.going to keep working on this. what's our method of exposing empires to gang warfare at the moment?"
"so where was star fraction anyway?"
"i would like to bring up a topic that i'm sure will spark some firery replies, but i think with faction warfare in game it needs to be brought up. i would like to make a suggestion that ccp change the mechanics in low sec to be more fleet oriented. at current in game a low sec status player in 0.4 or lower system who is in a fleet can be aggressed on a gate or station by anybody who chooses to do so nothing wrong with that. meanwhile his fleet members who could support him and turn the fight to be in thier favor with support ships like recons and hacs, and who would do so out of sentry range, cant't unless they are in a ship that can handle the sentries something wrong with that. basically what i'm saying is that game mechanics should be modified so that if you aggress someone no matter thier sec status you will also have aggression to thier fleet members. also ccp should re-visit remote repping mechanics for fleets with low sec-status players. if low security players are in a fleet together and are assisting a low sec-status fleet member who doesn't have active gcc then gcc should not be assigned to anybody for aiding thier fleet member. i would say there should be limitations to this. * gcc should nulify a fleets ability to assist a member unless the fleetmates want gcc themselves. any player with active gcc should be able to be engaged by anyone else without the aggressor having to worry about taking aggression from that persons fleet. * aggression rights should only be given to players who are in a fleet with the aggressed player at the time of aggression you would not be able to join a fleet after aggression has occurred and get rights to attack someone. with faction warfare in game it has become somewhat unbalanced for pirates in lowsec. faction warfare has turned into anti-pirate blobbing. often times i see 15-30 man gangs made up of mainly interceptors, t1 frigates, t1/t2 cruisers, and mind you most of them are poorly fit. they will be able to blob a low sec status player in a battleship who is in a fleet with support ships and kill that players battleship while his fleetmates can do nothing to help unless they are engaged or decide to take sentries in a recon or hac. in recent patches ccp has encouraged fleet work however with current game mechanics fleet work is difficult if you are below -4.999. i think adjusting this mechanic would balance out the anti-pirating being done by the factional warfare players and other groups, after all eve is always striving for balance. topic modified for easier reading."
"ccp will nerf what they want to nerf regardless of player feedback. it is just the way it is.i happen to agree with these changes.this is by no means the only change that has had a few of the player base upset. those old school players will remeber the change to missles and the addition of a boat load of skills that still don't boost them back to pre-nerf. drones....yep been nerfed too....carriers...been nerfed too.don't complain...test it...provide your feedback after testing and roll with the punches."
"eve development is not a democracy, and thank <insert deity here> for that."
"i think the reason that they don't is fear that people will ignore the real server and choose to only play the test server. if you can get 100 million sp a month on sisi, some people will abandon the slow grind of tq in favour of the instant gratification of sisi. that said, i don't think that fear is especially justified - how many people get a game, and then never turn off the cheat codes? sure, you'll play around with them, but then you go back to something that actually involves accomplishment. also, in a similar vein, research and construction time on sisi should be lowered dramatically."
"i can't believe no one has posted an issue on this before. it's been proposed for years..."
"one problem with sisi is that many times with new features the only people who can test them are those who will directly benefit and so have little reason to point out things which are brokenly overpowered. way back when, uo had a test server, when you logged in you were given massive piles of money, resources, etc. sisi currently comes close with the 100isk items, but a lot of stuff is missing. more importantly, you had the ability to set your skills to anything you liked. this let people test changes that would otherwise be untestable. it lets people test things they would never actually use. more people testing is always better."
"even if this were to occur it would be a case of good riddance to bad rubbish. it'd get rid of a certain element on the tranquility server and leave it to more serious players. those searching for the easy button get a place more to their liking and get out of the hair, partially, of those who dislike easy buttons. whichever server is used, ccp gets paid.good proposal. if for no other reason than to make testing work as testing should work. i'd go even further and say all skills should be maxed for everyone on sisi or better yet allow everyone on sisi to choose the level of their skills. give everyone a chance to test everything and anything. upsides galore and not one single downside that i can see.best regards,windjammeredit: i just noticed i appear to be agreeing with a member of goonfleet innominate. the shame of it all. but he's right."
"this is a great idea. either let us train skills in a few minutes rather than days, or just let us set the level of our skills."
"[idea] redesigning black ops - link to threadi started a new thread for an idea i had...suggestions?"
"signed"
"\"check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\"for this one yes"
"this. if the fitting templates were just stored client side, this would be nothing more than an automation of dragging each module to its intended slot. no extra work for the server and as a bonus, corp/alliance mates could send ship setups to each other as easily as sending eve mail."
"the reason why i suggested ccp would complain about server load is that it was their response to my \"change all ammo at once\" thread that the csm brought forward. ccps response was essentially in part, \"if we make ammo-switching easier, people will do it more often. since ammo switching is a database operation, and database operations bugger up our server, we'd like to make the ui for switching ammo difficult to dissuade people from doing it\". i don't find that a particularly good rationale, but it's the one they used. i could see them making a similar argument as regards any automated method of doing a large number of database operations, is all i'm saying."
"against"
"/signed."
"signed"
"i finally remembered the main reason we limited mercenaries from entering the war on the side of the agressor:corp a declares war on corp b.corp a is actually part of a group of griefer corps, issues merc contracts for this war with 0 fees. allied griefer corps accept, and voila, free wars!it would open up a whole can of worms for corporations to gain free wars easily on targets of their choosing."
"then make the joiners pay wardec fees."
"i know what most of the forum types are flying so it's a vain attempt, but hey."
"but... you don't live in 0.0 and you sure have a lot to say about the issue. you obviously think the way you play the game is the best way, what with calling everyone who doesn't live in npc 0.0 carebears, riiight. get an alliance together and come take some space it should be easy for such a great low sec pvp'er!"
"seeing the recent reaction to the \"1 agent can dish out 100 billion day\" thread, it seem exactly what people in 0.0 want. i don't see why someone should negate that wish."
"this is terrible. do you have any 0.0 experience at all?why should an alliance pay for things its members should be doing to begin with? this is not a way to determine how much a player has been contributing to an alliance at all."
"hey how about instead of this boring pve **** ccp just reintroduced 0.0 static deadspace plexes so 0.0 residents would have something to fight over instead of practically instanced pve **** that nobody wantsyou know, **** that actually demands that you interact/fight other people over resources"
"i'm with it.i think the idea of hiring the agents makes the most sense, from a lol rp standpoint and that it would give the awarding entity some control over standings. it should however be limited to opposing factions of the rat types in the area. for example, in detorid, you could only hire agents from factions opposing angel cartel. esoteria, opposing sanshas. and so on."
"because we fought hard and poured a ton of work into taking it and maintaining it, while you just move in and out on your own volition."
"could you elaborate on this please? why wouldn't command issue a mission to siege a pos and watch the players organize themselves to do it? and what do you believe to be the fundemental problems of 0.0, and do you have any lines of thought on how to fix them?exactly, noone would set up a mission to pay you for escorting your alt.do they also offer you shiny isk for it, though?no, i mean like a very very tiny pos, no bigger than a habitat module, and owned and looked after by a single, individual player.the real question is, why do you do things for your alliance if they don't pay you for every drop of sweat? after all, the alliance makes money off your work through moon mining, leasing out space to others, and so on, while you are squirming to get a few rats or roids to make your isk off, and even that is probably taxed for some strange reason, stealing even more of your hard work. if you want to be an unpaid slave exploited to fill the command's coffers, then you're just silly, imo. viva la revolution!"
"this is where you need a little more insight to the nature of corps and alliances. most people hook up with alliances of this nature because its a social part of the game. social and game. it is actually a lot of fun to be a part of that kind of thing. and if a person does not like the fact that the corp he/she is in has to pay taxes to maintain and grow the corp to allow members other opportunities, then there is always npc corps and can play by them selves. if the members are there in the alliance and are fine with it then they will stay and contribute to help build and defend it.it is alein to you beause its not your play style and you have never expereinced it."
"missions take away from the player-run world. rather than a real player giving missions e.g. your ceo and determining what is the most effective use, your idea would have people running around trying to complete arbitrary objectives for no real reason."
"the short answer is because most 0.0 space is not profitable enough to maintain an empire-scale infrastructure and war-machine while also paying rewards to the membership in the common case."
"even npc research slots charge you for the privilege, and there are some corps around that offer pc research slots for significantly higher fees as wellbut with no waiting. mercenaries charge for their services, as should be obvious from the definition of the word \"mercenary\". and courier contracts tend to include a reward, at least if people want their stuff to actually get moved. so yes, i'd have to say that those services already exist, and that there is a functional, shiny-isk-based economy for them."
"of course most moon mining is done on an alliance level after the regular rank and file members have taken over new space. we may not see the liquid isk from moon mining but that doesn't mean we don't reap the benefits. aside from having all this space to use corps usually have reimbursement programs for ships lost on official ops so the hit isn't so hard. not to mention how much isk it takes to keep the infrastructure up and running, jump bridges online, pos's fueled, bills paid, all that comes from moon mining. the real answer is most pilots don't fight for isk or moons, we go after people we don't like to make them cry, the space is just a bonus"
"actually, just going bankrupt doesn't land you in prison. going bankrupt is not a crime, even though the people that foolishly invested in a poorly performing company and lost money might wrongly think oherwise. defrauding shareholders lands you in prison. one of the aspects of the enron scam that most people don't know is that many stock technicians traders that focus on the technical analysis of a stocks charts had gotten out of enron before the scandal broke. why, because although the price performance seemed inline with the fundamentals of the company, it was completely backwards for the industry in general. why, because they were lying about the fundamentals. all of the info that you should need to know for trading would ultimately be reflected in the price. this probably would not happen overnight, but would require greater development of a robust financial sector which would be the market movers that would cause the smart money moves presaging major price moves. in other words if the financial corporations are dumping a company's stock in high volume and the price is tanking they may know something you don't, and it is time to get out.as always, remember that buying stock is risky. if you read enough books on rl stock trading you may be surprised at how \"pvp\" the attitudes of the authors are. if you buy foolishly someone is not simply going to try to take your money they will take your money, and that is perfectly legal. stupidity costs money.thanks all who approve of the stock item idea.they like me, they really like me"
"so, after my last post, i tried to think of a way to scam my stock proposal, and how the market would correct that, or if necessary what regulations would be required. i guess the most obvious way would be to start a new corp; make an ipo and then go bankrupt disappering with the isk. this is essentially what happened during the dot com bubble and subsequent crash, except that most of those weren't exactly scams. this has an easy market solution which was revealed during that crash. don't buy stock from unproven companies with no profit history or business plan. if you buy stock from a 1 day old corp with a 1 day old ceo, you deserve to part with your money. see comment on stupidity above. this kind of scam would seem to be difficult to police, but it is so obvious that only huge suckers should be taken in by it. of course, it would be bad to place time limit regulations on ipo's because i can think of valid reasons for a brand new corp to have an ipo. someone who has a history of profitable business starting up a new corp, or a spin-off corp. of course you wouldn't have to trust that person, you would see the market movers in the financial sector smart money trusting him/her with major volume and that should be enough validation, at least for a short to medium timeframe.since i am terrible at thinking like a crook, what other ways of scamming the stock market are there?"
"no support.this thread is here simply because some goons want more people fit for missions out in low sec so they the goons can gain a \"no risk\" activity of their own; namely ganking missioners with impunity. just be honest and admit the reason your for this idea goon. beyond that, this would wreck a legitimate gaming style that exists in game just because somebody else doesn't \"like\" how they play.everyone claims that the risk/reward is out of balance in high sec. this may or may not be true. personally i think its not out of balance, but many would disagree. but, what most people fail to realise is that one of the main reasons high sec is there is for people to build up capital for low/no sec operations. either to start them, continue them, or try them again because things didn't go so well.heavy pvper's think that moving levels 4's and other levels out to low/no sec will give them more easy targets to shoot at. in reality, in the long run, it will have the exact opposite effect: there will be even less for you to shoot at out in low/no sec because people will have to spend more time in empire running lower level missions in relative saftey before they have enough capital to venture out.farmers and isk sellers are a problem, yes. level 4 missions are a primary source of their income. but, this is a problem for ccp enforcement; not an excuse to ruin a portion of the game for a goodly number of people.once again, emphatic non-support."
"i also disagree with this proposal, but i have to ask. how does one farm in a l4 mission? you need to have a ship capable of handling what comes your way, and you need to talk to your agent and then make sure you are properly fitted for the type of mob you are facing, either with shield harderners or armor harderners and such. is someone that spend all day doing l4 missions a farmer? or are they just playing the part of the game they find enjoying?i spend most of my time online hauling ore or doing market runs, does that makes me a farmer, or does that makes me a player that enjoys those aspect of the game?"
"you dont need so much attention to do missioning. passive tanks and fof missiles helps even better. so a farmer a guy has several accounts, and does missions with all of them all day long, 23/7. all characters are in npc corps so you cant do anything about them as suicide ganking is not profitable on them. and also the loss of ship for them is not expensive. i know a guy talked a few times with him who does missions with 9 accounts, all of them are played at the same time by him.the player who playes eve only for missions is called carebear. no you are not a farmer, because you use your brain, what to buy, what to sell and also you are operating in limited way of earning money. missions lvl4 hisec are unlimited riskless way to earn money, so thats why majority of eve players want to nerf them."
"simple and effective."
"not supported.of course all pvp-ers want to solve their problem of not having enough easy kills as income by forcing carebears into lowsec. of course they market their \"solution\" as a \"risk/reward\" thing. of course it's no real solution to relevant problems. how many more anti-carebear threads do we need on this forum? seriously people, haven't we read this already over and over again, with all the usual suspects stating the same things, only looking out for their own interests instead of making a real effort to fix a real problem that benefits all in game?"
"well, good for you. have a cookie.how much you can do is irrelevent. there are players that pull in a billion or more per week that can afford to replace +5 implants all the time, they are irrelevent too.i'm talking about the low end casual players, who might pull in 20-30m per month."
"i find it amusing that pvpers would rather fight carebears than other pvpers. seems you don't think highly of yourselves at all."
"where the heck do you get this \"majority\" bull from?!"
"no support. sylthi has the right of this. high sec is a place for people to recover from losses in low sec/0.0 and get moving again or just to enjoy a more casual approach to eve. let's face it, eve hardcores aren't going anywhere. what's the alternative? what are you going to go play? ccp obviously is very interested in growing the player base and many players simply aren't going to want to compete right off the bat in 0.0. or maybe ever. and why should they have to? but enough will to keep the population growing.think of high sec as a fallow field. it's where new warm bodies arrive and get situated. it's where the beaten and tired go to rest. sure, some people will exploit the situation but the real money is still out in 0.0. if it wasn't why would anybody be there as it is? ccp's ambulation project and the presentation around it clearly shows the thinking of the team. they want new blood. new kinds of players. maybe players that have interests other than 24/7 pewpew.i remember leaving pirates of the burning sea because there was too much pvp all the time, everywhere. no real 'safe havens' to recover or recoup. all harbors could fall under blockade and the waters turn treacherous. economies easily crushed. but the defeated had nowhere to go to rebuild and recover.that's really when the genius of eve's high sec hit me."
"people say this and that about how its for people to build up isk to go to low sec or 0.0 but the fact is in most 0.0 you would be making more money with a high sec agent. i really don't care about killing the mission runners, i just want the effort that it takes to be in low sec or 0.0 to be worth more than running high sec missions in a raven thats total lose would take 1-2 missions to pay off. i would be just as fine if they dropped the rewards of high sec mission running down 50% then it would not bother me as much. but having been living in 0.0 for 2.5 years i think i have a right to ***** that it is worth this much. i have watched a friend on his high sec mission character and seen how much effort it takes. that is why i think this is important."
"yes i read that drones thread to, although this does seem like a similar situation it's not exactly the same.if you disconnect with your drones out, there is a chance for recovery. you will be warped back and the drones are still there.in this case, the probes are completely lost. there is no way to recover them. you can see them, you can fly up to them, they are an object like a drone, but you can't scoop them.so on disconnect the lost is guaranteed, with drones, the ability to recover them or some of them, even in a damaged state is still there.edit:- supported my own thread at notification of others :"
"good proposal. like herschel yamamoto said, same as on the drones emergency warp thread "
"it's the same principle, in any case. the details differ, but the principle of \"a disconnect shouldn't result in you losing control of your stuff\" is the same in both cases. also, seriously, support your own thread :p"
"snecnes, herschel means you should check the little box \"support this topic\" located just above your character selection box during a reply.windjammer"
"sounds like a real issue and easy enough to fix, so supported. i'm not sure how often this really happens and as such, how much priority it should have."
"/signed - just make the probes be connected to the ship that launched them rather than the client session id."
"just been hit by this, with a disconnect whilst having quest survey probes in flight. how ******* annoying."
"i have had this happen a few times. nothing more annoying than a random disconnect after 30-40 minutes of quest probes out in a big ass system which basically means a completely wasted 30-40 minutes of spamming that awesome interactive \"analyze\" button .supported."
"don't let the low post count fool you. tech lab is quality over quantity. keep it!"
"caod changes need to be clarified at the very least"
"agreed"
"i see a dev blog about forum updates, and i start into my happy dance...only to find out that they're not actually doing bugger all. rewriting descriptions is nice and all, but it's not a \"forum change\", it's a bit of descriptive text. that's not worth a dev blog - if you're feeling really ambitious, you might mention it in a thread on eve general. we want actual forum changes, at the code level, not a modification of the descriptor text. also, please don't make caod an in-character forum. i like the tards having their own little fenced-off area, and i don't want them invading the still-sometimes-sane forums. also, one other question i have - will any old threads be deleted? i'm an archivist at heart, and i hope all the threads from deleted boards will be moved to whatever remaining board seems most appropriate."
"i agree.i'd also suggest to them that there are many open source asp.net forum software libraries out there. mind you, that would mean they need to bring the entire website into the modern age - iirc they are still using old asp."
"agreed, the forum doesn't need a reshuffle, it needs a complete redesign from ground level upwards.given that all posters on here are tied to an in game character, a pm system as requested above should be easy to implement, just allow us to access the eve-mail system from the forum, bar trial account characters from using the eve-mail system from the forum to avoid isk spamming as a cspa charge can't apply for messages sent from the forum only for messages sent ingame."
"i agree first and foremost that removing techlab is an issue!"
"eve tech lab is the essential resource for all of us 3rd party developers. judging the importance of a forum only by its post count this is what seemed to have happened, is a too simplified means to make a proper decision. two points:1 due to the nature of that forum's contents, the potential user/poster base is of course way lower than caod or md, for example.2 *hint, hint* developers posting there might actually know how to operate a search engine eve-search, google, whatever and do so before posting the umpteens duplicate question about the same topic.both leads to a low post count.we might see something new/a replacement for eve tech lab for 3rd party developers with the upcoming evelopedia which hopefully also provides a real, useful official api documentation. but if that's the case, stating so in the dev blog would have saved much of the rabble going on now."
"tech lab must stay though i'd like it if there would be a thread or system that could keep track of available tools, rather than having to dig through pages of topics to find what is interesting."
"ccp what about doing something usefull, like upgrade the akwardness of the web code and feature wise ffs, we don't even have a proper search function any php forum has."
"wow... if that's true then why doesn't anyone use that to smuggle boosters?"
"they were born as slaves, let them die as slaves.j/kthis is a cool idea. i.e. being able to turn useless commodities into something of use. militants anyone?but this idea is so good that ccp will never use it. still.....support."
"should be a simple thing thing to do if it gets worked out using a lp store option.though i think the problem lies in transportation to said stores and as such an option to convert slaves to free slaves in mid flight is much more desirable. this of course is far more difficult to implement, as is far down the line if at all."
"you know the theology council keeps sending me on missions that some minmatar fighters of freedom have captured some freed slaves. it my job to kill the minmatar rebels and recover the freed slaves from their evil minmatar captors!although i do my job to recover these freed slaves, i am a true amarrian, whatever they did to earn their freed status is not for me to know. however they should offer themselves up to my service if i choose by turning them into my personal staff if i choose to.so i would support the option if i was able to take \"freed slaves\" and turn them back into \"slaves\"."
"no idea, never used them, carried them, or stored them. but i have carried and stored slaves. and only had a faction hit when i have been scanned down and caught with them in my hold jumping between systems, never for keeping them on ice in my station hangar. and as this is about slaves, rather than boosters... <shrug>"
"its sad this is not an option already."
"correct afaik.also on the not doubling thing - i don't have an issue with multiple uses of the same rigs - you do have more than one engine your ship :oh, and posting with an alt to give it another thumb"
"what to say .... great/signed"
"supported! plenty of things in the game have gone from useless to useful, without verging on the overpowered - damage controls, inertial stabs, shield relays. all the unused rigs should get the same treatment!!"
"i dont agree with everything you said but rigs definetly need a review. especially the penalties or lack therof for the rigs."
"was browsing chatsubo today and found this link. what were the results of this discussion? will there be some pf about the third races?recent returnee here and former royal knight of khanid. i wrote some 'correspondence' that reflected the rather pragmatic, nationalistic, view of the cyberknight faction as i saw it a couple years ago for the library here. also had some good discussions with the cosmopolite and ardor over at chatsubo as well discussing some of the, as yet, inexplicable contradictions in the culture described for the mainline khanid and that for the amarrians.common use of cybernetics among the khanid when access to cybernetics is jealously guarded by amarrian nobility/priesthoods.a religious zealot faction seen as odd by ordinary khanid leading one to assume most khanid aren't particularly dogmatic or even orthodox especially considering the question of how their own king flew in the face of amarrian tradition to lead them.less xenophobic than mainline amarr which lead to the technological and trade ties with the caldari state.i'm kind of curious how all this fits together. i've certainly had to cobble together zan's own views so that i could even rp him he played a rather vocal part in the khanid carrier incident a while back and set him up as, as best i could tell, a stereotypical cyberknight since it seemed few others were rped that way.mistrustful of the empire, wary of reunification, proud of his kingdom's, as personified in the king, deeds and successes, more open to other races and ideas especially caldari but also holding to a code of honor.what was hardest for me, though, was figuring out what kind of religious views he might have. clearly the khanid can't cleave to amarrian orthodoxy. their own king just left the trials and did his own thing. on the other hand, they did shelter some of the most radical and fanatic fundamentalists for a long while and do have their own zealot faction.the other question for me is the political stance of the kingdom. the king's a pretty wise fellow to keep a low profile and let the other empires burn out fighting each other but you have to imagine there are political fault lines forming up now. unionists want to aid amarr. cyberknights are probably more in the caldari camp."
"was on the agenda 2 weeks ago but the meeting had to finish before it was addressed. i moved it to the agenda for the coming meeting on sunday and it will get raised there."
"thank you, ms. constantine."
"i use drones as my main dps in level iv missions and these bugs happen to me all the time."
"seen both."
"i believe that any overhaul of moon-mining \"must\" include opening up moon mining in 0.5 and 0.6 - as i understand this was a feature of the game a few years back but was removed as part of the now failed program to force people into 0.0 space. with dyspo and the other top 3 moons netting the uber-allainces billions of isk a month per moon, where is the major harm in allowing the small research corps using the crappy moon-materials in hisec to help offset the cost of their pos's?"
"100% supported! i think instead of respawning, a terraforming element could be introduced where if you had the skills you could \"re-seed\" the moon with x chance of certain mineral veins being recreated. now, i don't know much about terraforming, so i might just be talking out my behind, but it was a thought that popped into my head as i read the op."
"long thread is long"
"i like the general idea of making it randomized, but it is pretty rough, and serenity has some good points. also, open up moon mining in .4 at least currently it is .3 or below, right?. while it needs some serious refinement and consideration, it gets my support."
"to minimize the macroeconomic disruption caused by any change like this, the total number of high-value moons should increase to compensate for the \"flux time\" after a high-value moon has vanished and before it has been rediscovered and mined.if this is not done, then the quantity of high-value moon minerals on the market will decrease in proportion to the ratio of the average length of time that it takes to relocate a high-value moon to the duration of the high-value moon.don't try to spin this suggestion as \"wah don't take away my moon-mining profits.\" the income from high-value moons is determined entirely by market demand right now. the demand remains the same or grows regardless of what the supply does, so the average of miner's profits won't be affected.as an aside, this would work out great for gs. gs holds sooo much worthless space. if the distribution of high-value moons becomes more even across space over time, it can't help but improve our space over the long run."
"good ideas. also, +1 for csm activity in the forum."
"a good idea, but it would rise the price in t2 modules/ships as the moons would assumably need to be rescanned, re setup on each move, perhaps the person who has the moon originally gets a heads up to its new location in an attempt to resecure if possible.also the cost of scan probes would rocket, even thought i own 3 med-high moons, i like this idea"
"not a bad idea, though there would be several kinks that need to be worked on.for those saying that it would lead to less conflict, i disagree. once you set up a moon mining pos you're enemies are not going to want to let you have the income from that, even if they can't hold the moon themselves. so, fast raiding parties hitting the moon miners to disrupt operations are always going to be a threat.likewise, say alliance a and alliance b both manage to locate the same new deposit just inside alliance c's territory. suddenly alliance c's territory becomes a battleground with 3 alliances fighting it out for control of the new resources all trying to push the other two alliances back far enough to be able to set up their own mining pos and defend it.as a result, the limits of alliance control become a lot more fluid with the borders shifting almost daily across the map."
"before they even consider this they need to make both moon scanning and pos setup/teardown less pointlessly soul destroying"
"jade, maybe you should just propose that ccp give you some 0.0 space and a bunch of money. not really much point in trying to hide it with :words:"
"there has to be some static resources to differentiate one system from another."
"i'd love to see the rp explanation for a moon, formed over millennia, suddenly having a geological miracle occur and it's entire mineral composition changing at random!i personally prefer the idea of moons remaining static because it better reflects the real world that we can all relate to - for example look at all those lucky arabs in saudi who have all the oil! dysprosium whilst us poor sods in the uk only have coal! atmospheric gases.it's a fact of life that some regions of earth are richer in resources that are high in value than others and no matter how much we wish for it oil fields are not going to randomly up sticks and appear under a different country - i don't see why eve's resource distribution should be any different.however, that said - there is something that can realistically shift and change, which is technological advancement - in the same way we are looking to achieve the same ends oil does for us with other things biofuels etc how about some kind of rp technological advancement which enables us to make synthetic dysprosium by mining chains of other materials?this could be set up with a similar idea to invention and t2 bpo, where a dyspro moon-holder still has the best moon like a t2 bpo holder still has the best resource as he gets dyspro directly from his moon, but other players can make synthetic dysprosium with a larger time / pos network investment and correspondingly smaller profit margin in exactly the same way you can build t2 gear but with more work and smaller profit than the bpo owner does.i'm not necessarily proposing that as an idea and i don't even know if i'd support it if someone else did! but it would seem more realistic than minerals magically jumping off of one moon, flying across space and landing on another one...."
"permanent main deposits + depleting random minor deposits = stability without stagnationi have already posted a way to achieve this, link further up this thread."
"actually, the situation in the real world is closer to that analogy than you think. while old fields get depleted, new ones are being constantly located. at the moment, the primary barriers to extracting all the discovered oil reserves is politics and technology with most of the discovered reserves being in remote areas with unique problems associated with their extraction.for example, britain has extracted a good amount of the oil from the north sea over the last 40 years, there is still a huge amount in the ground still to be extracted however, a large proportion of that oil is simply too difficult or uneconomical to extract with the old big oil company business models. it's why smaller companies are making a killing at the moment with the fields that the likes of shell and bp won't touch. likewise, a lot of oil is now being located on the west side of scotland in the atlantic ocean requiring innovations in deep water rigs.so it's less a case of the deposits magically moving and more a case of old deposits drying up and new deposits being discovered, often in areas that the old survey equipment either couldn't reach, couldn't process or simply missed.this is compounded in eve by the simple fact that each moon survey is completed within 10 minutes, deposits being missed would therefore be easy to explain as errors in the original scans which only pick up the most obvious results in the scanned areaconversely, as an idea you could come up with a structure that you could anchor survey sattelites? once you had your moon mining pos up and running that would continually scan for fresh deposits on that moon thus prolonging the lifespan of the materials you're mining."
"those that have the really good moons have already won the race, so to speak.they had to fight for them, and now reap the rewards of milking them. the problem with this model is that any new-comer alliance that wishes to challenge them needs those same moons in order to be able to keep up with a long campaign of attrition. as long as old, established alliances have isk-fountains at their disposal, they will only truly be challenged by other, old, establish alliances.by setting up the moons in the way they did, ccp basically created player run factions, not alliances. in order to challenge the old guard, one needs the resources to match.make every moon mineral available in every moon in the game, either in the same amounts, or do some sort of breakdown with 50% of the moons containing the 1st, 3rd, 5th, 7th rarest mins, and the other 50% containing the 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th rarest mins... however you do it, break the monopoly. under this system, alliances will still have incentive to conquer more space, because that will mean more moons in total, but the bigger and ungainly they get, the harder their logistics become, so some alliances may want to pare down some of their space. this makes it necessary to balance expansion with sustainment, and the same group of 500 guys doesn't own one quarter of conquerable space anymore.think about it: if you have a small, lean, well-trusted, everybody-knows-everybody-in-real-life alliance, they will be able to take more space then an equal sized alliance that may not know each other. similarly, huge allinaces containing thousands of people will have to strive to make sure they can trust their pos managers if they want to hold on to all of their space.after a few months of this level of ass-pain required to hold massive chunks of space, it will be interesting to see who still does. i think it is totally realistic that some of the old guard will still prosper under this system, hell some might even benefit from the new system, but the old, huge, lazy alliances will surely crumble if they can't step up to the new challanges of maintaining their space.who's with me?edit: about the break down of minerals in the \"every-mineral moons\"... have like 25k units of the most comming/least expensive min per 500 units of the middle minerals per 1 unit of the rare minerals, or something like that. not those numbers exactly, but along those lines."
"cutting my own fingers by supporting this but hey. didn't like static plexes, don't like static moons. maybe it's worth training astrometrics v for this :"
"oh god this is dumb. stop making proposals on 0.0 which you obviously have no idea about.how about thislet's have agents that you have improved your standings with just up and vanish. let's have bpo's just randomly vanish from your hangar and show up in my hangar.there is no :facepalm: big enough for this idea."
"and the old guard weighs in...interesting."
"aw, it looks like somebody is mad as hell over the t2 bpo thread that toman made.it looks like somebody is terribly, terribly afraid of losing their cash cow."
"which came first, my reply in this thread, or the whine thread about the bpos?goonswarm: forum-warrioring at it's finest."
"make no mistake. static moon mining is one of the few things that encourages combat in 0.0 at this point. arguing anything else is delusional."
"what about some sort of system that encourages maintenance of conquered space? it would make 0.0 more of a \"new frontier\" where new entities could compete, rather than \"join bob, goons, ra, or nc.\"no doubt the 0.0 power blocs would absolutely hate this idea, as it would burden them with having to work to keep what they have. but how many people people, not characters are actively in 0.0? and how many of all of those \"high-sec, carebare, low-risk high-reward, carebear pussies\" would go to 0.0 if it didn't mean having to join an old, established alliance who, by the grace of time alone, got there first."
"i think the main reason why ccp hasn't made moon mining dynamic is because they know all too well that you'll end up with more poses.think about it for a second. the most logical way to overcome dynamic moons would be to have a large pos or two running the reactions and small moons mining the moon minerals at the dynamic moons. no one is going to unanchor a large pos with all the the fixings to move to a new moon. they are all going to have a central place to operate. the fact jump freighters make it easier now to move minerals from pos to pos. so logistics like issues are kind of a non-issue now.this would lead to people not bothering with the 60 minutes unanchor time to recover a small amount of assets, small pos, moon miner, silo. people would probably leave the pos up anyway in case something good came along on that moon. people would have to attack and kill the old powerless pos before they deploy their own.the way ccp would combat this would be to make pos unanchor times a lot faster, because you know they don't want thousands of small poses all over the place.this would in turn break 0.0 warfare. the ability to quickly move a pos makes it easier to defend locations..although i'd support something to make moon mining not a static as it is, i don't think dynamic or depleted resource are the solution."
"the reasons that new entities normally don't show up in 0.0 is that the majority of space in 0.0 is absolutely terrible and the small amount of good stuff is already defended."
"not supported1. moving poses is inhumane treatment of logistics personnel as it stands, having to move every moon mining pos once every 3 months on top of the logistics nightmare is asking for people to simply quit the game outright.2. as has been pointed out on the parody threads there are other forms of static income.3. you being the one to propose such things is akin to a person claiming all people with blue eyes and brown hair 0.0 population should be locked in a cage pos setups and poked with sticks for your amusement, it's a sick sadistic sort of entertainment you probably come up with while sitting at home when you aren't role playing a lady of the night for some well hung caldari stud.4. over 2/3rds of your post is posturing with a sort of assumed setup for ad hominem towards anyone that would disagree. \"would ccp be prepared to shake up politics and over-stabilized borders in 0.0\" anyone who doesn't support your form of torture is automatically assumed to be for over stabilized borders and not necessarily against your half witted ideas on things you yourself will never have to experience. it's akin to the whole abortion issue one side identifies as pro-choice and the other pro-life as if either is truly against freedom in choice or life itself.this sort of writing should be an automatic put off, if your argument cannot stand on it's own 2 feet without such posturing it deserves to die a cold death. if it stands only because people are too moronic to see through such posturing then it is deception.sometimes i wonder who really wants to destroy this game, jade constantine or goons, you seem to be the most intent on destruction thus far."
"...absolutely terrible because the few good moons that make it worth while are well defended.even though the proposal jade put forth has a ton of problems on it's own, it still addresses the fact that there is a huge imbalance between \"those that have\" and \"those that want\" and there is little recourse for anyone other than another huge 0.0 power bloc to do anything about it. it's basically class war; the aristocracy controls the wealth, and the peasants revolt. i think jade is just trying to come up with some way to make it possible to redistribute the wealth although, his idea does suggest some sort of random reassigning, rather than a way to make it so those not in power bloc may be able to even think about contesting for it."
"yes and this thread and everything associdated with jade constainte isn't ****ing stupid enough with this joke of the csm called the jade constinte power hour."
"jade, stick to \"hardcore mode\" proposals."
"dumb idea, jade. alliances did the work, they make the effort, they control the space. many of the locations of these moons are well known, so get your fleet of puppets to try and take them over.moons are what they are, and i find it hard to consider any of them one day, magically, changing into another. i'm all for expanding the supply of rare moons, but leave that to the devs and when they decide to expand eve... it constantly has been expanding, so when new systems come out... new moons too."
"jade, i went and checked the features and ideas discussion forum, and i find no thread with many supporting replies. is there a reason why this feature and idea wasn't posted there first to get feedback from the general eve populace?"
"lol! since when do people check with the features and ideas forum before posting their stuff in the assembly hall?"
"not supported.thisyeswhati hate freedom. there how goony is that? goony goons goon goonedhm.this edit seems a little extreme, but sadly it also looks accurate.it used to be complexes, now it's dyspro. t2 bpos are a bit less profitable due to invention, but they're still quite the isk printing machine... and it still would be if this change were put in. they might even improve.grim mercy: one of the things about t2 bpos is that there's even more of a 'huge imbalance between \"those that have\" and \"those that want\" and there is little recourse for anyone other than another huge 0.0 power bloc to do anything about it' except that not even a 'huge 0.0 power bloc' can do anything about it. the t2 bpos belong to those that got into the game early. end of story, unless they actually want to get rid of them.i wouldn't have any problem with increasing the viability of mining lowends and/or decreasing just how much the dyspro isk fountains are worth, but it seems like the jade's proposal is an attempt to nerf someone else's alliance level income while keeping his own intact."
"i actually support this - currently moon mining is too static, and rich, powerful alliances will always be rich and powerful due to the moons they control, except in rare circumstances such as internal disputes, or overwhelming offensice action."
"sorry, dont buy this.random moons means people will bunker because eventually they will get a pimp moon. this discorages pvp and invasions.however the current system is broken in creating pos wars which are the most hated part of eve.solution?exploration. have miners able to gather these stuff from exploration belts or from mining planets or suns directly. get rid of station npc style income. promote active resource generation in risky space so pvpers can send small raiding gangs to hunt insted of superblobs to fight pos's uner 20 titans doomsdaying under cynojammer crap.e.gnow - pos goes up. zero encoragement for raiders/small pvpers. only superblobers attack pos's for their isk. static resources = broken gameplaywhat should happen - perhaps people take out exhumer lvl5 ships or whatever to mineor gas collect 0.0 suns. this is very risky since any pvper can enter system and warp to sun to guarentee a fight. perhaps the miners get a mixture of 0.0 minerals such as dyso and prom to keep rp fans happy, condensation for gas collectors either way - make moons mining no longer afk npc isk printer that requiers a superblob affair to remove by pomoting the poor eve member to mine suns/planets to econimically compete with mining towers. this promotes the poor eve member and helps him make the riches that previously only ceo's who kept the moon isk had, but also it promotes the solo pvper again and the small raiding gang!what do you think?"
"guys, i have a huge pile t2 bpo's lying here, and invention kind of moved my profits from monster huge, to just huge. how can i move it back up?hey, let's make getting the materials for t2 ships even more difficult and expensive, and even more of a logistical nightmare than it is currently. i don't really know anything about 0.0 or how moon mining works, but if we make the mats randomly disappear and pop up elsehwere, that will slow down things enough we will be able to cash in!now, i just need more :words: ..."
"aye!"
"i can agree with most of this, except for removing level 4s from high-sec.i would support a dynamic agent quality system where each corp that offers missions has its agent quality adjusted based on use. at downtime, the server checks which agents were used most, and adjusts qualities per corp/level. low-sec missions would be balanced to average about +10, with the spread depending on use. high-sec missions would average -10 per corp."
"1 missions need to be made more dynamic and unpredictableagree. 2 mission pay-out in low-sec and 0.0 needs improvementagree.3 module loot has a negative impact on the economy by making t1 production obsolete and injecting too many minerals into the economyagree on removing non-meta items only. 4 missions in factional warfare require improvementsnot participating in fw so can't answer.5 mining missions require improvementsagree.6 agents are static, resulting in overloaded mission hubs, desire to have agent quality made dynamicagree on the payout per visits suggestion.7 level 4 missions in their current form do not belong in high-security spacebasing mission payout on high/low/0.0 sec fixes this8 standing is being monopolized by missions no ways to get standing outside of mission running, with the exception of fw standingmanufacturing items or mining for standings springs to mind."
"1 missions need to be made more dynamic and unpredictableif this can be done in a logical way, such as having a variable in missions, i'm all for it. running duo of death vs 40 frigates would completely destroy a lot of setups. having a slight chance of t2 npcs in missions increasing the chance as the mission level goes up would make it tougher without destroying the missions.2 mission pay-out in low-sec and 0.0 needs improvementthere have been many ideas for this, so all i can say is that i agree. one idea i had was to make people coming into your mission that aren't a member of your corp or fleet automatically have the aggro timer while in the deadspace area. this wouldn't change much except allowing the mission runners a first-fire opportunity, and encouraging the pvp that many mission invaders crave.3 module loot has a negative impact on the economy by making t1 production obsolete and injecting too many minerals into the economystrongly agree. increase the bounties of the npcs and have them only drop meta items would make mining more profitable, and would re-open the market to player-manufactured items basic t1. aside from drones, i never even use any t1 items that i get from rats - it's either sold as with smartbombs or reprocessed. i don't have a problem with keeping drone loot the way it is, though.4 missions in factional warfare require improvementsi don't participate in fw, so i have no clue about that.5 mining missions require improvementsyes, i completely agree. the idea of no roidbelts in high-sec could definitely tie in here, as well as increasing the amount of time and ore available in a mining mission. \"we need some of the ore in this belt. the rest of it we don't care what you do with.\"6 agents are static, resulting in overloaded mission hubs, desire to have agent quality made dynamicif this is implemented intelligently, i have no problem with this. agent qualities do help you know how much standing you need to take them, but it does form mission hubs. i guess this matches real life though, as more people would travel to new york or chicago for the big npc rats than would head to west virginia or colorado.7 level 4 missions in their current form do not belong in high-security spaceyou were right in what you said about this one. the recent news article suggested that mission-running involved the most players in this game, and nerfing this would anger over 50% of the playerbase as the qen stated over 50% of people have no interest in pvp in this game.8 standing is being monopolized by missions no ways to get standing outside of mission running, with the exception of fw standingi had an idea for this one. manufacturing and loot drops aren't always sold. what if they could be traded to fw companies even if the faction doesn't like you much for standing increases makes rp sense and gives another way of achieving faction standing? the standing increase would have to be fairly minimal, but if you ran missions for minmatar in amarr space, you could give them the named loot drops in exchange for your ever-shrinking amarr standing.one other item you forgot to add:9 level 5 missions need improvementthe risk just doesn't match the reward in these missions. since organized players ie player corps involve themselves in teamwork, having the possibility of dropping capital-level salvage might be a possibility here where the salvage from level 5 missions can be used in making rigs for capital ships. in general, the benefits need to be boosted here as well bounties, lp, reward, etc."
"this idea is ok... better than ccp's at leaststill needs some tweaks:the activation time of the mwd would need to be decreasedif you get in range by using your mwd then u click it off...wait 10secs your target has warped off or gone out of scramble range.but the idea has some substance :"
"i like the idea more than what ccp had in mind. but it doesn't solve two problems: 1 ludicrously fast ships are still ludicrously fast. i don't like it to see that most ships just horribly die if they jump into a gatecamp whereas the nano***s could still jump in without needing to particularly worry about it. thing is, it doesn't matter how big the camp is, a nano*** who isn't completly stupid will always escape. this imbalance wouldn't be removed by sarmauls idea.2 frigs can kite outside anyones webrange using afterburners this way. except for some amarr pulse laser platforms they were extremely difficult to hit. this is for assault ships especially. with ab giving 300% instead of 150% faster assault ships like the minmatar ones would be tremendously better than slower ones. especially the jaguar would kick ass while the vengeance or the harpy still were mediocre. so you'd be creating new imbalances with it.but tbh, i'd love to see sarmaul's idea coming to use. lots of pilots would have to reconsider their approaches to combat and their fittings. with the ab becoming useful in pvp it would create a whole new level of diversity. i'd welcome this."
"i agree that any change that affects speed will require a lot of rebalancing over a wide range of ships, but i want to address this point quickly.with the balancing of polycarbons and snakes, the ultra-extreme speeds will be moderated. allowing fast ships to more easily move through gatecamps at the expense of their combat ability seems like a good tradeoff to me, preserving the viability of guerrilla style warfare without allowing superfast ishtars to fly circles around most opponents."
"i approve of this"
"signed"
"absolutely supported!"
"/signed"
"ding."
"60.0"
"do want!"
"pretty straight forward, if amarr militia show as hostiles when my main adversary is the caldari, why can't the minmatar militia show as friendlies without me having to add yet another setting to my overview? even a \"remove allied militia members from overview\" would be useful."
"i support this!"
"did you check your mails, or the insurance panel?insurance would send you a mail that the ship isn't insured anymore. but only if you open the insurance panelmaking it rather useless, and obviously broken."
"have the server check during downtime which insurances have less than 24 hours on them and send out an email."
"i totally support this."
"totally support this. sorry forget to hit support topic"
"supported!"
"you have some very wrong ideas about how things actually work in 0.0 for most players.in essence, your proposal would make 0.0 very much harder for people who fly t1 ships, and very little different to those who fly t2. you might want to think about which type of player would be hurt by this."
"incidentally, if insurance in eve was in any way \"realistic\", it simply wouldn't exist at all for pod pilots. as a demographic, we rate as a worse risk than 15 year old male meth-addicted demolition derby fans."
"if you want to make insurance realistic just have the company charge you 100m isk per month and never pay anything out."
"wouldn't any kind of insurance removal make eve more \"harsh\" so to speak?getting insurance can clearly only been seen as a carebear thing as it lessens the impact of losing a ship. imagine how much more economical damage you would do to your opponents when repeatably destroying their ships, while you being superior at pewpew on the other hand very rarely loses a ship and as such benefit greatly from better insurance."
"i'd support a complete removal of insurance but not one designed to make highsec even more profitable and 0.0 even more worthless. even that would be a huge nerf to anyone living in 0.0. probably putting the profitability far below high sec."
"\"visit\"ing is not the same as living there, in an alliance, participating in alliance warfare. his example of the cynojammed system is perfectly valid in this discussion no matter how much you wish to marginalize the differences between empire and 0.0 gameplay. your proposed changes affects everyone, but penalize by play style in an asymmetric fashion."
"i think there's definately a point in changing insurance-mechanics, but changing it will have quite deep and also unwanted consequences. right now insurance in an unlimited resource that people can just endlessly use as extra funds for 'cheap fleet pvp': get disposable firepower for about a third of it's actual price. if this mechanic is changed, it should be changed in a way that doesn't discourage pvp unfairly, but does reward people for managing risk well. if for example it would cripple some 0.0-mechanics, there should be solutons found for that."
"it would be better to make insurance not pay out for ships lost due to illegal activities, seeing as how pend insurance is under the concord banner it would be unrealistic that they would pay you if you lost your ship to a concord action in empire space"
"like kyoukoku said, there already is a system that change your \"haspaid\" or whatever stat in the database, there's no reason they can't make that same command cause the server to pause any skill in training. you can manually press the pause skill button to stop skill training, so making the server send that same command together with the \"change 'haspaid' attribute to no\" command wouldn't be hard."
"i believe that signifying one's support of this thread was meant to imply that he or she wanted to hear what a dev had to say about the queue, not that he or she necessarily supported implementing the queue . . .pay attention, people!but i do, btw . . ."
"do want."
"why not incentiveise conventional warfare for the titan, by giving it permanent siege-module bonuses? it can fit xl weaponry just like a dreadnaught, howver it doesn't need to use isotopes to run it and i'd nerf back the tracking penalty somewhat. plus the siege module would give a healthy bonus to tanking ability, allowing it to hang around in combat more.make it mutually exclusive with dd usage, so titan pilots can't sit there plinking ships and repeatedly firing its doomsday.couple that with 'focused dd', a lesser 'aoe dd which criples ships, not destroy', and you're probably en-route to a winner. it would certainly make the clone vat more appealable."
"it's the same argument you see with motherships, only on a much larger scale. why fly a huge isk risk if it's too easy to kill. motherships are dropping at a huge rate these days, although it's probably in line with their proliferation b/c ccp didn't plan ahead on the actual investment for them. in a cyno jammed system, moms and titans are pretty nice tools, outside of them, they're hugely vulnerable, thus you see them on grid for 30 seconds and all fitted with cloaks. if you gave a titan siege, it would not stop 10 dreads from killing it. and since most cap fleets now have 30-80 dreads in them, with some reaching 300, titans would have no use for a siege device like this, no matter the tracking. maybe if it had 30 mil armor we'd see differently, but with about 1.2 mil armor, they die too damn fast if you can hold em down.there are situations now where a titan has a reason to stay on grid, but siege mod will not add another one."
"so why not give titans 30 million hp? i assume there's a good reason for this, but it seems reasonable option to consider. these things are bigger than some stations, and yet they barely have more hp than a carrier."
"hows the soccer treating you yaay?"
"there needs to be ways besides missions to gain standing. i think the following ways to gain standing should be added.-trading. every time you make a market trade buy or sell stuff in a station, you get a small standing boost to that corp and a lesser boost to that faction. traders would be able to get their standings up relatively rapidly similar to missions and non-traders would have their standings go up slowly over time to the corps/factions that they interact with consistently.-refining. refining in a station should give a small boost to corp standings and a lesser one to faction standings. reasoning is as above. it's stupid that miners should have to grind missions to get rid of the refining tax.-ratting. killing an npc rat from cosmic anomalies, signatures, or belts should give you a small faction standing boost to the enemies of the rats. this should not apply to missions.rp reasoning for the above: someone who is a well-known \"customer\"...someone who refines at a corp's station often, someone who is a large participant in the market, is going to be more well-liked than, say, some random guy who they've never seen before. as for gameplay reasoning, it means that grindingmissions is no longer the way to get your standings up."
"i support the above product and/or service."
"i've been calling for this for a while but am not entirely sure as of the alternate sources of standing.i don't think these sources are good, sorry, because these are mundane tasks and would benefit mission runners most, because they can refine and sell their loot for even more standing. it wouls also result to buy-your-standing, with people repeatingly buying and selling random items, or buying random stuff off the market to refine.as for ratting, i think all amarr corps do not like the blood raiders, how to determine what corp is the enemy of them? anomalies would work though, i've been thinking of that, but the idea needs a lot of work.so the title i surely agree on but the solution, no. keep discussing though!"
"mission standing gains could always be reduced to compensate. hell, you could also make the standing gain only apply to reprocessing ores. keep in mind individual trades would make very little difference. the people who would notice an immediate standing gain that rivals missions would be the hardcore traders who buy and sell a lot of stuff.or, now that i think of it, a better idea would be simply to give a bonus based on the active orders you have. so, fulfilling buy/sell orders doesn't yield the standing gain, but setting up your own buy/sell orders and having others fulfill them does. you -could- technically farm them this way, but it would be slower than doing missions anyway so it would be pointless. i don't think that standings should go up as fast as speedrunning missions does, but i think it should be possible.i said faction, not corp. attacking blood raiders gives you a little bit of faction standing but no + standing to individual corps."
"now this idea i do like, provides a way back for people who's standings have plunged into the basement.so for example, you kill a serpentis ratstanding with serpentis drops slightlystanding with gallente increases slightly capped?alternatively, kill a minmatar ship:standing with minmatar drops slightlystanding with amaar increases slightlystanding with angels increase slightlyalso for those in 0.0:-kill a concord shipstandings with concord security status plummetsstandings with all pirate factions increasesnow it shouldn't be easy and the maximum increase through this should probably be capped at a point where you can get access to lvl 1 missions with maximum diplomacy though you'll cripple the opposing standing doing this. once you can access the agents then missions should be a more effective method of gaining standings and will have the added effect of letting you gain the derived standings through storyline missions."
"apologies. that is something that would make sense, yes, and is something i could support. since it lowers your standing with one faction, it is not unreasonable to have an increase with others besides the concord status gain for pirate kills."
"i suddenly have misgivings about flying around in a pod..."
"ha, cockpit. nice job.show me your titles!!"
"well, to be fair, this is something virtually everyone knows..."
"do ships even have coc-pits? i can't imagine anything bigger than a fighter having a coc-pit.ccp, please fix the word filter."
"would be interesting"
"well i just used the word coc-pit to get my point across, i could have easily said out of pod view or something along those lines."
"sorry . . .perhaps i should have included a smiley icon.to me, \"fluff\" isn't an insult . . .fluff=backstory=immersion=whatever else that provides answers to questions like: \"why do we have a third person view of our ships?\"i was implying that this \"camera drones\" story actually taught me something new./huglo"
"ah . . . forgot to mention . . .as cool as a coc . . . er . . . um . . . the view you are talking about might be, i don't think it would be all that useful. because of turrets that track targets in eve, i am rarely looking towards the front of my ship . . . at least during the exiting moments anyway . . .now, on the other hand, if you were implying you'd like an inside view of your ship looking out through the view screen/goo/windshield/whatever like via star trek or something . . . then it might be nifty, and as far as i know that sort of thing is planned for ambulation.lo"
"ah ok yeh fluff is a fair surmisal cause in a sense it is that just whether it is good fluff that can add immersion or not ;sure something along those lines i don't think it would be a huge implementation and might add a nice touch though not necessarily for combat."
"kk"
"i loved all the past alliance championships. i`m sure lots of people loved them. so could we get or get the csm to get one an answer out of ccp if they consider holding an alliance championship this year? with the upcomming closing of the dedicated forum it looks very much like ccp is going to save the isk. at least they could let us know. also, whith people rallying for musical instruments, i think its time to voice our desire for yet another couple of weekends with fancy explosions or at least an answer by ccp.dz"
"support. i'll make sure i get this question raised if we don't get a direct clarification from ccp in the interim. its now too late for new issues to make the deadline for the 2nd formal meeting but if we don't hear anything in the next few weeks we can raise the question for the third."
"id like to see a comprehensive review of t2 production in eve online. at present the fixed distribution model of t2 bpos leads to static gameplay as good t2 bpos will always be good t2 bpos and it encourages alliances to hoard good t2 bpos hacs, some command ships, etc while caring precisely nothing about bad t2 bpos ammo, useless modules, etc.would ccp ever consider introducing devaluation of t2 bpos?  a system where eventually good t2 bpos will be produced out and it will be necessary to rediscover alternative sources and re-establish the t2 production chain using new bpos? maybe rough timescale for producing out a t2 bpo would be 2-3 monthswould ccp be prepared to randomize the process of allocating produced items to t2 bpos? perhaps once a particular good t2 bpo is produced out another good t2 bpo is allocated to another player somewhere in eve? this could even be done by classes of t2 bpo, ie that the re-allocation would go to the correct item-type but in anyone's hangar and obviously youd need to adjust the numbers to ensure that you factor in bpo research time and instability into the number of t2 bpos needed to support current industry levels.would ccp be prepared to shake up politics and over-stabilized production chains in eve by having the good bpos that are worth producing get produced out and get randomly respawned in the possession of other players that will need to be re-purchased if existing profit and supply domination is to be maintained?we have a suspension of disbelief issue with previously undiscovered good t2 bpos spawning in new player's hangars obviously, but its not much worse than the endless item production of t2 bpos by hugely industrialized alliances. what i see with the t2 bpo distribution mechanics is a chance to spark real activity in the t2 bpo market again  real trading aimed at fiscal domination and maintaining control of a vital resource. itd also give more value to the marketeer profession actually finding respawning t2 bpos and bring some much needed balance across the industrial alliances. its quite senseless that there are only a handful of really good t2 production alliances in eve and lots of bad ones.im a great believer that eve should have the ability to provide some lucky breaks to players prepared to do the leg work and take the risks and the principle that star fraction could randomly lose some zealot bpo that respawns in the hangar of burn eden or the internet frankly makes me smile with the anticipation of virtual profit loss. make t2 production exciting again! spark trading over t2 bpos and organizationally-diminishing resources. make the economic distribution system a little more dynamic and watch the market and politics get more interesting  everybody wins.now these are very early thoughts, and a broad proposal that basically says can we look at making production from t2 bpos more interesting and dynamic?what do people think?"
"i was just thinking it was time pro another \"remove t2 bpo\" post. and here it is less than 5 minutes after the thought."
"thanks venkul mul - yep i missed that one. good to link the issues."
"yeah, the static, sedentary nature of the t2 bpo market is really a detriment to the otherwise vibrant, active economy that eve is known for. the time for making a change in this area is well past. there really needs to be a way for new industrial alliances/corps to participate."
"aw, it looks like somebody is mad as hell over the moon thread that jade made.it looks like somebody is terribly, terribly afraid of losing their cash cow."
"works both ways."
"6.5/10"
"i have no t2 bpos. that being said, i'm all for getting rid of them, however in a manner much different than described above.the moon thread has good ideas in it to end 0.0 stagnation and make this game more about fighting for resources, not camping them. conversely, this whine thread was designed only to discredit the other.makes sense that a member of a large, ungainly 0.0 alliance with a ton of moons would be ****ed."
"the point is that jade made a suggestion that basically illuminates his shocking ignorance of moon mining and moon scanning. the inherent problem with his suggestion is that finding valuable moons at all is an immensely time consuming process, and having to re-scan entire regions if the moons get randomly respawned would put them on par with current deadspace encounters. this would only increase the \"camping\" of moon resources, and drive up the price of t2 ships. hence the shot at t2 bpo's, of which star fraction has quite a few thanks to their age and the lottery that was in place before invention. instead of finding a way to make other moons equally valuable, which would result in the depreciation of sf's precious t2 bpo's, his suggestion makes 0.0 even less valuable."
"read some of the other posts in that thread. there are ideas of changing the system that don't include \"moving\" moons.it is an interesting topic, changing up 0.0 and the way and reason space gets conquered."
"the t2 bpo issue is pretty interesting too. i imagine there is a means of fixing it without \"moving\" the bpo's. it is an interesting topic, changing up an entire market segment and the way and meansby which t2 ships get produced."
"comparing t2 bpos with moon mining is silly.t2 bpos and moon mining are similar in that both are isk printing machines. the similarities end there. t2 bpos are safe forever. moon mining operations require a ton of logistics, large setup costs, and must be defended. never mind the effort of breaking through a cyno jammer, sieging at least one death star pos, and fighting off the bridged-in defenders. unlike t2 bpos moons fairly regularly change hands.t2 bpos are like a moon mining setup that never has to leave your hangar, and doesn't require an alliance to defend."
"this isn't fair star fraction and the other old school alliances worked hard and put so much effort into winning their t2 bpohwait"
"i agree, completely. however, while it is apparent that neither you nor i have any t2 bpos, one of us is benefited by good moons and the other is not.i'll go ahead and let you guess who. hint: it's you.the venom expressed against an idea of changing up how moons work was surprising. even though his suggestion of how to change it was pretty terrible, there was a discussion going on in that other thread that had some other ideas, until you decided to derail it, in classic goon fashion."
"well i don't know where you're getting the crazy ideas about bpos randomly moving around among players, but i'm all for t2 bpos turning into limited-run bpcs so that over time they disappear from the game.it's not fair that just because some guy ran a bunch of missions and hooked up with some research agents in 2005 or whatever that he forever has the economic advantage that i can never overcome no matter how good at invention i get.also, generally speaking: **** everyone who has any advantage over me and i hope they die. the csm is a pvp playground as much as the markets and gates are in-game; anyone who can't see that is a fool."
"the difference is, you could come and take my moons if you ever get a big enough set of balls. we can never touch sf's t2 bpo's. there should be a way for guys like you and me to get involved in the t2 bpo market. there were no valuable ideas in the other thread. moon mining is an incredibly involved, complex issue, and the only ideas put forth were from individuals who clearly had no experience with moon mining and no grasp of the far-reaching impact their ideas would have on the larger market. you're basically complaining that goons are upset that jade is trying to change 0.0 a topic about which he knows nothing in such a fashion that he benefits financially from it."
"they never should have stopped the lottery that's the only way to make this right put it back in make is so that t2 bpo's are devlaed to the point where they are sellign crap barely above making a scraping profit much like t1 everything."
"invention works just fine. t2 bpos are no longer needed and are a throwback to a poor design decision many years ago.just delete all t2 bpos."
"yeah, lets get rid of t2 bpos. i agree.going after moons is a lot more than just an issue of testicular fortitude, and you know it."
"moon require you to hold a pos on it provide fuel, do logistical work, etc etc etc. t2 bpo's require you to run them in a perfectly safe station. yes t2 bpo's do need more parity :rolleyes:."
"people that pay a year's worth of profits for a t2 bpo are screwing themselves over already. those that have the t2 bpos from past times have made a fortune already or they're just failures. the debate shouldn't be about whether or not t2 bpos should be removed but on how they will be removed. they are a obsolete relict from past times.here are three options:- delete them- turn them into maximum runs bpcs- turn them into bpcs with runs equaling one year running time.no new t2 bpos should be introduces in any way ever again."
"stain empire took 4 of our dyspro moons for nearly 6 months and we're just now getting them back. so, yes, it's mostly testicular fortitude. just because you're lacking doesn't mean it it's some far-reaching fantasy scenario."
"just delete the damn things. the other two options can be achieved by using copy slots in a station.hopefully, this is now the case."
"no support. the op is proposing bringing back the t2 bpo lottery, but this time without the requirement of obtaining rlp's research loyalty points from research agents. this would mean that everyone in eve would have a chance at obtaining a randomly spawned t2 bpo in their hanger. let's see......who would that benefit? possibly a really large alliance? maybe.....goonswarm? naw. i'm sure that's just paranoia on my part. more people = more chance of someone in the alliance getting the t2 bpo. this is just goonswarm looking for another easy button. i'm told wow is full of them. maybe they should check it out. people who have played this game for years are entitled to what they worked for. one of the things that keeps coming out of goonswarm is their belief/desire that people who have been playing a few months should be equal to people that have played for five years. they want instant gratification and large easy buttons.the owners of bpo's are either those who got lucky in the lottery back when it was in place or those that paid enormous sums of isk for them. either way they are entitled to the advantage they currently have. in any case that advantage is not as large as it once was.t2 bpo's became considerably less valuable when invention started allowing anyone to create a t2 bpc. as an example the price of a hulk went from around 500 million isk to around 100 million isk. with invention came the demise of the lottery. no more t2 bpo's given out and lots of t2 bpc's being produced.ccp eliminated the lottery and replaced it with invention specifically to break the lock on the markets held by t2 bpo owners. the idea is that attrition will eventually take its course and t2 bpo's will inevitably disappear. in the meantime, the large advantage the t2 bpo's once held is gone.windjammer"
"so its okay they they got lucky way back when but its not okay to get lucky now? where the **** is the logic in that?windjammer"
"congratulations! you just responded to a parody thread with a seriouspost of over 320 words! that's over 1800 keystrokes at least! you are officially the most dense person who still has the mental capacity to type coherent english sentences...hertford, tell him what he's won!"
"yes, it was okay then and no, it's not okay now. the logic is inherent in the situation, how it changed and the reasons it changed. my post #24 of this thread outlines the reasoning. your inability to grasp it is either intentional or a genuine lack of competence. either way it's the response i would have expected from you given your choice in corporations.windjammer"
"in politics, as in life, it's a joke until it isn't. besides.......why would i pass up an opportunity to put in a well deserved dig to your alliance?windjammer"
"i think it's more a case of \"tell him what he's lost\"."
"while t2 bpo's are worth comparatively less then they once were, it is beyond ******ed to suggest that they do not offer a substantial advantage today. also, how can you possibly equate winning a lottery with work? individuals either got lucky or paid vast sums of isk that they have long since made back. the people with t2 bpo's did not acquire them through any means that a sane person could possibly describe as work. and they most assuredly do not somehow deserve the massive advantage the t2 bpo confers. also, the lottery was discontinued well before i started playing eve, and i have been here for over a year. what about all the other players who are years old who never had a chance at the t2 lottery? what arbitrary line in the sand do you have in mind for a player to actually matter enough to warrant access to t2 bpo's? take your elitist prick attitude and gtfo.windjammer"
"how about all those who want t2 bpo's removed from the game, chip in and buy out those bpo's from their current owners.after they purchase the bpo, they need only right click and choose trash to achieve their goal.the current owners are happy as they were fairly compensated for their efforts in aquiring said bpo.those trashing the bpo's are also happy because they were able to bring \"balance\" to the game."
"good idea! how much for yours?"
"why should those who want to bring balance to the game be punished for the unmitigated greed of those lucky few who are taking advantage of game mechanics that are no longer available to anyone else?i like that. \"...efforts in aquiring said bpo\". haha, effort. getting a lucky roll /= effort. please stop pretending t2 bpo owners exerted themselves somehow. they get the last however many years of monopoly as \"fair compensation\"."
"invention has already accomplished that.t2 bpo holders, however, still rake it in over inventors who see their profit margin dwindle daily.ex:barrage m bpo - build cost per unit ~15 isk.barrage m bpc invention - build cost per unit ~100 isk.this is if the inventor purchases all of the materials involved."
"yea, lets get goons to roll in on another issue and all that jazz. t2 bpos are no longer isk printing machines, but they are an investment in a steady and modest income by any standards. so, against this. eos bpo - makes less than 400 mill month deimos bpo - makes less than 600 mill month ishtar bpo - makes less than 1 bill month astarte bpo - makes less than 1.6 bill month just as examples. and they require allot of work, to keep up production. of course, those who are jealous, will always find a fault with anything - and why should a guy who spent 30 bill on a bpo that makes less than a bill a month get to enjoy his achievement? nawww, we should remove them.... we should drag everyone into the gutter with us... is that how it is?"
"that dude that spent 30 bil on a t2 bpo deserves to get screwed over three ways for drowning a obscene amount of isk into a hopeless investment. 30 months to get even? how mentally degenerated do you have to be to invest even a single isk in something like that?t2 bpos are obsolete. they should have been phased out a long time ago. it's about damn time this is finally happening!"
"if you really feel strongly about the actual topic of t2 bpos, you might want to start a non-joke thread to discuss it. i suggest starting a thread that requests the ccp agree preserve the status quo with t2 bpos until the end of the game, including all of your justifications for why you think it's fair because if some t2 bpo-hater gets to ccp first, who knows what they might decide to do!"
"delete themwindjammer"
"that is the point, neither you, nor i can dictate to someone else how to play the game. but, just because you feel that he: \"deserves to get screwed over three ways for drowning a obscene amount of isk into a hopeless investment.\" does not mean that it should happen - this is just your opinion on the matter. eve will be around for about 6-7 more years, at the moment a good t2 bpo is a valid investment, if people have the isk to invest."
"more not less bpos.not supporting a detrimental nerf plan."
"i would only chip in isk if it allowed me to ban people like you from the game."
"to me this reads like goons wanting only numbers to count in this game, nothing more nothing less."
"i'm for removing them completely from the game."
"while i like the idea of forcing people out of npc corps, this idea is too open to exploitation. if this were implemented, you'd likely still see a bunch of macroing hulks and autopiloting freighters throughout empire, they would just trade all of their materials over to a player corp character for sale. that particular player corp character wouldn't even have to undock, maintaining the current \"risk-free\" npc corp model."
"no? newbies should be able to start corps as long as they're willing to risk getting wardeccedeh? maybe a couple days, but not a full week.possibly, but it should be optional. i'd like to see a way for the defenders to bargain for an end to the war and not get wardecced again 24 hours afterwards. wardecs should not be totally bound to arbitrary objectives...although i suppose the \"closing of corporation\" would do that fineeh? utterly pointless. besides, they'd always just choose \"closing of corporation\" so they don't have to worry about a premature end.yes.no, that's unnecessary hassle. instead of flagging the corp, just flag everyone who is currently in the corp and joins in the future. if you leave, you're still a target for the duration of the war."
"to be honest, it makes no sense to have a war in policed space. remove it completely and force pvp into non-policed space, it makes no sense for any security organization that's supposed to be uncorrupted to allow fighting in their jurisdiction. remove flagging entirely as well. both systems are entirely artificial."
"who ever said concord was incorruptible? they just like blowing your ship up, and look for any excuse they can find to do it. fortunately, they also like money."
"i think that this will actually end up helping new players start corporations instead of hampering them.currently the cost of starting a corporation is trivial - a single destroyer. this means that anyone can start a corporation by running a dozen level one missions and without really knowing how to cooperate with other people. increasing this cost means that:1. fewer caod alt posting corps will exist2. players wanting to start a corporation either have to work for a significant amount of time to do it on their own3. or they need to work together - the 100 mil starting cost is really the corporation's first goalit will make it harder but i think the end result will help them instead of hurting them. it will also help limit corp hopping, which i think is an unintended feature of the corporation system.i think that a week would give them a decent amount of time to prepare for a wari wouldn't make it mandatory. the objectives part is really a quantifiable way to show that a corporation has achieved victory.you misunderstand - they would still be responsible for paying war fees every week, the objectives are a way of having a public record of their victories. this would be extremely important for the reputation of a mercenary corporation, for example, and a good way to determine of those you want to hire are worth what you're paying.i wouldn't mind that either but i'm not sure how feasible it is from a technical perspective."
"1,2,3 and 4 i don't care about. 5 and 6 are excellent however, as it makes mercenaries viable."
"not sure i support all your ideas, but i support this and that war decs need a complete rehaul.most importantly, they need a win/loss objective and an impact to the deccing corp if they fail their war objective. plus, a counter way that a corp who is war decced can achieve to end the war in a win or loss scenario."
"why? this just puts artificial limitations upon war decs and adds pointless complexity."
"i don't think it should ever be required. the objectives should be a way for:1. attacking corps to have a tangible record of their accomplishments during wars2. defending corps to deny the attacking corporations these objectives, which puts a blemish on their record"
"let's think outside the boxa lot of work and thinking has gone into trying to fix the attributes of abs and mwds in order to make them both have an equal use in pvp. the end result seems to have have met with little success. instead of choosing one based upon how it compares up to the other, it should be based upon what one might encounter in the pvp field. instead of boosting or decreasing the attributes of either module i propose we change each modules viability in pvp through the creation of a new longer range mwd webifying module. ideas for this module: goal only slow ships using mwds not afterburners.attributes needs a tweak to range or effectiveness against mwds that would give someone a reason to consider it over the webs available now. incentive give the assault frigates a ship bonus to using the webs, ie extended range for the module or increased effectiveness. result now we might see some more abs and afs having a larger place in pvp and we see a defense against the nano strategy without destroying the tactic itself. anyways, that is just my favorite example. whether or not people like that individual idea, i still think we should start looking into what other aspects and elements of eve we can use to fix a percieved issue."
"sov should be determined by pvp imo. and sov should be impossible to switch without a significant pvp confrontation.if you want to make new pvp objectives to go alongside what we have and give them some sort of sov impact, that is worth talking about so long as they actually encourage pew pew unlike some other suggestions.racing to mine or kill npcs shouldn't be what this is about. and this could cause practical problem where sov gets switched accidentally between friendly organisations who rat/mine/plex in each other's space, affecting the function of critical infrastructure such as jump bridges.this would also cause big problems for corps who hold sov but rent space out.sov is about the ability to control space, not about what you do with it."
"back in the days of the 10/10 plex's being static, the average alliance member would never be allowed to see them. in fact, it was impossible for anybody other than a select few to ever run them. this was bad for eve as a whole and ccp fixed it with exploration.today, static pos are the new problem. moons generating tens of billions a month now mean superblobs are requred to remove them. all the crap associated with lag etc is all over pos's.the small raiding gang or solo pvper cannot do anything vs the static pos income generator. the average alliance member rarely sees the wealth of the moons.so whats the solutions? first leave existing mining pos as they are but boost the average members ability to get them dynamically such as.....sun harvestingwarning-rp on!: small superheated debries from failed planets and moon orbit the suns in small, almost invisible asteroid belts molecules thick. when harvested, can give small quantities of material!warning-rp off!you harvest suns and get random moon mins from there slowly.the pro's for the average alliance memberthe average alliance member can now get into the reactions game as well. he can also start to make wealth from the busy t2 market. people will no longer need to superblob to defend/attack pos's unless its for sovrignitythe pro's for the small gang/raiders/solo pvperyou jump in local and most of the time they warp out by the time you find out which belt they are at and warp to them even expert scanner users can take a minute to get to their target.now, you simply jump in and warp to the sun for a fight, meaning that findng targets is easier.the loosersthe trillionare alliance leader who makes his isk from pos's will lose out. also, oversupply of moon mins wont be a issue if ccp seperate sovrignity claiming pos's from mining pos's the only reason why there is a oversupply of crap moon mins because they are actually free since the pos only exists for sov so even at a loss, these mins make a profit, if you see what i mean.what do you think would be a good solution to empowering the average alliance members and promoting small scale/raiding/solo pvp?"
"supporting my own topic. oh and remember that people can still mine moons as per now. we are taking about empowering alliance grunts and pvpers insted of superblobs vs trillionare alliance ceo"
"bull**** anyone with any kind of ****ing balls could challenge plex gangs. they were exactly what you claim to want, small gang, high level pvp fights, except with no need for soul grinding **** like probing for hours on end, which is something absolutely nobody but the most worthless carebear **** wants.your idea is **** by the way and barely makes sense. i dont see why people would stick around at the sun doing whatever if local is filling up, its not like a plex with a limited resource that you have a reason to fight over"
"plex's would denay their own alliance. and plex's were abused by plex farmers stealing keys and overseer spawns etc that ruined it. if plex's had no keys and you could go the the final stage, then fine."
"i like this idea."
"isn't this just a somewhat poor rehashing of the wormholes ideas?"
"how about requiring that a pos be anchored at the gate to maintain it with the pos & some gate fuel costs. the gates are not near moons, so the pos can't be used for that purpose or, likewise, found by simply warping to a moon. the gate always requires a large tower, and uses 70% of a non-faction tower's cpu/pg resources more difficult to deathstar.one caveat: the 'derelict gate' does not use jump bridge fuel, and sometimes does not even function, requiring repairs, so it is not an assured asset all the time.requiring a pos to hold it means that people won't be spamming instas on the jita market for 'hidden gates' that only warp you directly to a deathstar. :d"
"good points windjammer. ;i suppose my idea would require lighting-fast response times of the shield transfer ship, and that would also probably be 'unrealistic'. which goes against my purpose of getting a more 'realistic' scenario. but if this did happen, at least the above scenarios would provide for more pvp action. in the end, i think tradable kill rights will give the best solution.here's another thought - and intermediate 'kill right' option: low-sec sheriffs! empire factions could dispense sheriff licenses for a fee of course and requiring a very high sec status, giving the pilot the right to agress concord's enemies in low-sec space.this would jive with the backstory concept of factions 'out sourcing' customs officers, and fw fighters, and would give another pvp opportunity. just as the wild west needed sheriffs to tame the lawless bordertowns, factions could hire pilots to 'laid down the law' in low-sec systems beyond their control. instead of gate campers you could have gate keepers who protect passing ships from attacks. anyone getting concord aggro with an unprovoked attack would also get the aggro of any sherrifs in the system who could have 15-30 mins to hunt down the agressor, or at the very least protect the wreck could get agro for wreck thieves as well. of course the sheriff would lose his/her license and get a hefty sec hit for abusing their powers such as stealing the wreckage themselves or colluding with the gankers, etc. okay, shoot away."
"first off... let me apologize if i step on anyone's toes or failed to read the thousands upon thousands of words in this thread... i got as far as 2 pages before i saw a repeating pattern of...well you know the deal already.but a few things didn't get mentioned.a: your focusing on the ganker... aren't you forgetting about the alt's and the people who loot? who gives a flying rip about the ganker if your going to ignore the real problem of the looters. i mean all it takes is one stupid frigate or something to start firing on a defenseless freighter/indy and then all those fun little battle cruisers show up and loot the tar out of you.personally i think the concord strike/penalty should extend to them as well... but i have no idea how that could be implimeneted from a programming standpoint... so scratch that one.b: insruance being \"nerfed\" wouldn't do much... you need to remember that the ganker dosen't care about his ship... he's not even likely to insure unless its a bit spendy anyway... if you really want to have an impact... then you could take away his insurance rights for the... say the sovereign nation of the region? but would that really have an impact? the insurance is given by a particular npc corp is it not? surely they can slap a standing on you as well. im sure they don't appreicate you blowing there money away without some sort of... uh... kick back. that could work too... large fines and penalties or something.c: now i'm going to admit there are valid reasons for the ganking... but you need to remember something folks.... the issue is not the \"legitmate\" tactical manuvers of ganking. its every tom **** and moron who dosen't give a rip about what you think and just want to make money the cheap and easy way... they dont give a rip about the honor of combat.... they do so under the false pretense of \"it would ruin the game if it was otherwise\" and blah blah blah cry me a river type of attitude. and what do you get for your trouble? nothing... except more trouble. new gamers who show up and try to play the game aren't going to tolerate excuses by saying this is the way of the game when they just started playing for a month or so... hell i'd be ****ed too. while i happen to agree that high sec shouldn't be impervious... the penalties for scerwing around in high security should be obsencely higher... oh sure you can do what you want... just be prepaired for consequnces of your actions.personally that kind of behaivour is dishonoable and cowardly... at least the piracey that takes place in low sec has the intent of taking you out and flying off with your goods with its ship in tact. somehow i doubt the true nature of pirates didn't count on \"respawning\".if you get killed... you lose the \"game\" so to speak.... its just stupid to exploit a concord attack where your forcing the gankee to have no choice but to just curl up and die. because in reallity thats what your doing. oh sure... you can buy ships that can handle it.. but only if your a frakking billonare. ever look at a fenrir? that big freighter is sweet for hauling crud... but you can't outfit that thing...and even if you could... won't amount to much.escorts? won't work in high sec... as you already know... concord will fire on them too if they do not have kill rights.... now if killrights where granted to members of the fleet... thats different.... but still.personally i'm agianst ganking because its not my style... but should it be taken away?nope.should it be stopped? hard to do.but for us pilots who want to enjoy the game and not worried about some lame cheapskate.. would be nice not to worry about that in high security space.hopefully we can spend more time working on a solution... and less time defending the right to _______....oh and again... i'm just sharing my 2 cents... after all i bought the game.. id like to have a say in this mess too.i like honorable combat.... and a fighting chance... bankrupting the gankee isn't nice."
"i really dislike it too. couldn't agree with you more and in general i really, really, really dislike nerfs of any kind. nerfs represent a devoluition and decrease in dynamics. i believe evolution should be the preferred method of problem solving, thus increasing dynamics. evolution of ammunition, etc. could have been made to counter nano speeds, but that's not the way ccp chose to go.the only reason i put forth this proposition was because it's going to be much worse the way ccp has proposed it be done. ccp's way = nerfing a fair number of items in the game. my way = nerfing one item. my way = a direct and controlled nerf affecting nothing but the intended target of the nerf. ccp's way = indirect, potentially uncontrolled nerfs affecting more than the intended target of the nerfs.the nano speed nerf is going to happen. the only question is, which way do you want it to be implemented?regards,windjammer"
"tacos rule."
"yes that would be cool. i would like it to work when in sapce and your looking at 20 to 30 hangers and trying to remember where the hell you put that domination gyro."
"station cans are your friend unless you move base a lot. couldn't hurt to have this though."
"agreed fully."
"yeah, i have trouble finding stuff too. people don't like the \"excel in space\" look, but even in excel you can make some easy filters, why not in eve? client-side caching is your performance-saving friend!therefore i'm proud to say: i'm dadutchdude and i support this message!"
"bad idea. if there is to be an interstellar ups, it should be done by the players. the trade/courier business works just fine, no need to interject npc shipping fee's and transport."
"there are too many stations in hisec. it's too hard to get your courier contracts filled in time compared to filling a buy order at a hub. any big trading organization, without the computer aided systems like ups has, would face numerous dead-heads, have to face orders too small, and have a huge pain in the ass dealing with the number of contracts.thus the only contracts are usually freighter sized to be worth the time to find them.a courier system would increase market integration and vastly increase the potential for traders to turn some fast industrial isk."
"not sure if i support a dedicated suicide vessel given there's no actual death in eve but i'd like for the oppertunity of ramming speed and the possibility to inflict damage if going down with your ship means that, you don't eject in a pod, you blow with the ship as it rams into the enemy."
"so long as it takes out your pod too, i'd support it."
"not supporting.there are currently already plenty of serious tactical options out there. adding this one would just create silliness think 'suicidejihad by goonswarm'. i'd prefer ccp spending time on more serious things then this."
"wouldn't need to be database intensive, all it needs is a list of people whos contract's you want to ignore stored locally on the client, not the server. then when you open the contracts window the server sends the full list to the client which then filters out the ones you don't want to see."
"currently, the only thing true-sec affects, ratting-wise, are the potential spawns one sees in the belts. this would make one think that systems with a true-sec of -.7 and lower would just be chock full of triple 1.5 battleships and such, but as i am sure anyone who has ever hopped into a raven can assure you, this is note the case. even systems that are as 'good' as -1.0 are still infested by the sorts of cruiser and battlecruiser spawns which aren't even worth the ammo, making ratting, an already tedious and un-rewarding activity, even moreso.what i suggest, then, is that true-sec becomes more of a sliding scale, wherein the better a system gets, the better the 'worst' potential spawn becomes. for example, a system with -.8 sec would not only be capable of 1.7m battleship spawns, or whatever it is, but it would be in-capable of spawning any battleships worth less than 1m. so on it would work, with deepening true-sec meaning progressively better and better spawns all around.this would, i feel, accomplish the dual purpose of making ratting generally more profitable and further give more incentive to hunt out the better ratting spots, making 0.0 real-estate, currently thought to be worthless by many beyond their dysprosium content, much more valuable, and spurring more conflict in their acquisition and defense. thank you and goodnight"
"yo hey forgot to do this"
"haha no-one rats in 0.0 they all use their highsec mission running alts to make money."
"eve is a tough placestop whiningjoin a good corpor stay in a nub corp"
"if you dont have the resources and manpower to have your own corp... join one that doessorry, life intersecting with reality"
"i've tried to regather all of our ideas and get our main goals presented more clearly. inviting all to keep hacking away at this issue of ****ty pos's doing too many jobs and doing them terribly.acdc - the road to proposal for better a 0.0"
"if someone ****es you off because they say something bigoted or otherwise offends you, you've petitioned it, and you still hate them for it . . .i dunno . . . put a bounty on them if you can't find them and pod them yourself.lo"
"aweseme capsuleers deserve cooleri'm going to attempt to tie back all of the contributions to ideas for better sov and get the concepts that are definitely working more organized. i will leave some room to add links to other threads as the concept is far too large to manage in one thread.please amend to this list any concepts that are missing and try to point out concepts that are not fundamentally sound.the root of all these problems is that pos's were conceived to address too many things and, in order to balance with their many roles, have become a huge pile of middle-ground solutions that have too many side-effects like pos spam, blob warfare, and overall boring 0.0 structures.layered 0.0 warfare for fleet and small/mid-size gang objectivessovereignty structures should be few and should function as legitimate devices of contesting system ownership.objectives that are to represent the final word in who owns a system must balance for timezones.objectives with higher vulnerability should have the cost of defeat represented by amount of time spent in the defeat condition. more fuel use, less mining performed, and lower security and inherent loss of economic activity. this balances for timezones since no loss or victory is total or instantaneous.fighting the passive/stay-at-home allianceall passive income streams must be vulnerable to disruption. cost of this disruption is limited mainly to lost production that won't resume without player action.logistics load of maintaining sov structures and the potential for decreasing that load through mechanisms of additional vulnerability should be increased.structures that grant advantages to 0.0 powers' ability to maintain their territory and bypass non-sov threats should be vulnerable to non-sov threats.making sovereignty more meaningfulseparation of logistics pos and structures controlling sovereignty. planetary defense platforms for a less numerous and more consistent basis of 0.0 sov.separation of residents from owners of system. new facilities for renters and carebears with mechanisms of benefiting the sovereign.these structures will also serve as the basis of 0.0 non-sov residence.more long-term routes of investment in infrastructure that are based on direct involvement. think of pos flogging the dead horse and starbase logistics is needlessly soul destroying threads in context of these changesbetter sov contesting combatpos's were meant to act as fight brokers that determine when a sov-contest will occur. this has the undesirable side-effect of guaranteeing fleet combat in which there is almost never a partial victory or loss.moar should be moar, but less should be less.replacement fight broker must demand constant involvement across several grids simultaneously to change combat dynamics.desired goal is increased headroom for tactics and good coordination leadership to allow outnumbered attackers and defenders routes to levy their toll beyond what they can in head-on fleet combat.secondary goal is to reduce lag, increase headroom for larger battles, and reduce lag's impact on effectiveness of superior tactics."
"nice work. i linked this in the op of my assembly hall proposal as a good summary of our think tank. just watch that the small-mid size gang involvement is in a support role rather than the main spearhead of an operation."
"they shouldn't be the main spearhead, they should be skirmishers. scout around, give everybody time to bring the heavy hitters to bear, inflict some damage, run away when it comes time for beating down, harass where you think you're not getting yourself killed, and then if there's any scraps of the enemy force for you to face after you win, they go mop them up. the same role as light cavalry, slingers, and all the other quick, light units that got sent out ahead of the real army in pre-modern warfare. interceptors are functionally close to horse archers as-isthey don't hurt too much without huge mass, but there's bugger all a slower force can do about them, goals for small gangs should be in the same sort of vein."
"any replies to topics of what small gangs should accomplish should be filed in this dedicated thread.regardless of what anyone feels, ccp is probably going to make some changes. it's up to us to come up with good changes and ensure we're not left with pile of **** v2.0.linkage"
"this is a great summary of base principles. i think the goal is to achieve the most elegant solution that incorporates these in the minimum number of changes to the current mechanics."
"op: nice post, not the wording i would use but i agree with the sentiment."
"all i'd like to know is wtf are goons doing as csm's? nothing like having the ultimate carebear, lying, exploiting, cheating, corp having a say in the future of the game."
"probably because they were voted in.gonna have to elaborate there ... condoned by eve ... but follow the eula ...i guess the largest corp brings in a little bit of game experience.but its ok. you're the first person to point this out. the very first one. you should bring more topics like this into the spotlight."
"real carebears don't lie, exploit or cheat. goons may claim to be the ultimate carebears but they clearly suck at it, and i'm not afraid to say so!speaking as a carebear though, i'm actually glad that there are goons as csms. sure i don't enjoy playing the game in the same way they do, and i might never agree with more than one word in twenty that they say, but they do represent the interests of a large section of the player base, and have a good deal of experience in their playing arena, and some of them are even intelligent and atriculate. no, really!what would be absolute hell would be a csm made up of nothing but empire huggers too afraid to step into low sec for fear of being ganked that's me!. we need a decent cross-section of the playing population to make the csm actually useful and to look at all sides of any issue before submitting it to the kingdom of devness in icelandia."
"i'm thinking up some new ideas just from reading what kelsin's arguing.1 should huge passive income streams be invulnerable to disruption?2 should living in a system as a productive citizen mean interference with the sovereigns?3 should living in a well-kept empire mean exposure of these citizens to all the lawlessness of virgin 0.0?i'm going to say no to all three. here are some solutions i've come up with. let me know how they sit with this discussion circle.1 to seperate the idea of living in a system and having sovereignty over a system, i'd like to see something on the order of colonies implemented.colonies could be like the infrastructure you provide to your local population of care bears that allows them to live in your space and perform economic activity and defenses *cough* without allowing them access to your outpost.colonies should have separate modules that allow them to perform many of the rites of station services. refining, trading, repairs etc. these modules store taxes in their own facilities. sort of like communal grain mills that keep a portion. if you raid them, you can steal the stuff that's kept as well as disrupting operations.colonies under the protection of a defense platform are indestructible.2 on moons, the fix is simple. instead of harvesting arrays, have a system of drones that do all the mining. they're vulnerable while en route back inside the bubble. if you can't redeploy them every so often or defend them, you lose access to your sit-back-enjoy-the-isk income. hp is about that of a bs. they have to move a few kilometers to get inside the bubble. can be interdicted.economic sovereignty requires de-facto sovereignty is my angle. yes, you will get attacked by people at odd timezones. these attacks will not be sov-changing fleets, but small groups of raiders. no excuses for not doing something about them.in orbit around planets, it should be possible to construct a harvesting platform. like other modules under the colony system, they are a passive income system that is vulnerable to disruption. the platform itself is indestructible when protected by a planetary defense platform, but the shipments of goods are not. they are harvested by drones that warp back and forth to the platform.gas giants provide gas products. solid planets provide solid products. availability is much more equal than moon mineral availability.3 gate guns are kinda cool. i am attracted to them. if they lock slowly, they're not a fence, but an anti-fence. you can pass through, but you can't stay. very valuable to those living in a 0.0 empire.possibly another option since colonies and defense platforms can be in any system would be to have a protective shield on the colonies and outposts like a pos. expose some of the more passive elements of income and infrastructure to small gangs, but give back a little in the form of letting the defenders undock and get organized to attack those threats."
"1 you can already disrupt income streams.2 jade mentioned this very idea in iceland. it was a bad idea then and it's a bad one now. making a boring system more boring because you think it might be personally interesting to sit there and shoot drones all day isn't a solution.3 i'm not quite sure what the question here is, but 0.0 is lawless by design. to change that changes both the fiction and the nature of the gameplay."
"seriously darius, a pos is a giant macro-miner that can't be removed without winning a sov-contesting battle, one that currently is guaranteed to be a giant fleet fight where being severely outnumbered means assured defeat.i'm not asking to take a hundred guys and win against a thousand, but i'd like to do a hundred guys worth of damage.you seem so confident in all your statements that an alliance shouldn't have to put up with a small gang when that gang has no capability to affect the alliance as a whole in a sov contesting battle.should they not have to put up with it at all? that's essentially what you're arguing. i'm arguing that an alliance should have to deal with smaller threats as smaller threats. non-long term consequences to short term disruptions."
"small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances. small gangs can already impact the finances and operations of large 0.0 alliances."
"in all seriousness as i've already stated the nature of what you're asking for already exists. try it some time. i'm confident in my statements because we have small gangs. they disrupt enemy operations. i know this because i read their forums. i said this in iceland when the bad moon-drone idea you magically came up with was mentioned. the same person proved their lack of knowledge on the subject by stating that nobody is ever financially damaged by sov warfare."
"i can't touch moon mining in a rapier"
"you can't touch a nyx either... how should we redesign the game to make sure you can conquer large things solo in your tiny insignificant hull?"
"there you go again. it's not about wanting to take over the world in a kestrel. all i'm asking is that it's not possible to simply ignore everything from a kestrel up to pos siege gang.10 hippies crossing the road won't make the world change, but you're bent on the notion that since they can't make the world change you shouldn't have to deal with them at all.at current, if it's not a sov-changing gang, it can be ignored 100%. stay at home tactics ftw.to all economics and logistics disruptions, the same defense will work 100%. get to the station. safe up and cloak. jump clone somewhere else. the bad hippies will go away."
"this is the basis of your argument and it is patently false."
"alright, tell me what they're going to do?station services? ten hours of shooting anyone?this ****'s boring and bad for the game. at least if there were some cost associated with leaving such a gang to rot in space, there would be an incentive to get a gang together instead of just deciding to rearrange the hangar."
"i'm going to take this another direction. you think i'm talking about running around in a bunch of velators and breaking the foundation of an empire instantly.i'm not asking for permission to win at the game.there needs to be more granularity between going out to reinforce towers and camping a jb in an sb.something in between reinforced and incapped.best i've come up with so far is a structure that can be \"un-aligned\" by shooting it. tripping this condition immediately sends it into a localized reinforcement that eats a tiny amount of stront at a constant rate until it's repaired and gives back unused stront.a gang of ten domi's won't burn down your hardware, but they will disrupt the operations until you re-align them however that works or catch them in the first place.read me clearly. some objective in between the 35m shield required to take a tower into reinforced and the lucky breacher who finds a lone hauler.more granular exposure for more granular losses."
"i never said sov warfare was perfect. i said turning it into faction warfare isn't the answer. turning it into cs in space isn't the answer. you can run gangs through 0.0 right now and kill people and that hurts. does killing a few battleships hurt? yes. should a small fleet be able to dent an alliances sovreignty by playing minigames? no, not as they've been presented thus far.as it stands today the barrier to entry for 0.0 is very high, yet somehow people manage to do it. there is no entitlement to the space for you or anyone else. it takes superior leadership and organization. it should. i think one thing people could spend more time thinking about is \"why are so few successful and how can we enable more people?\", rather than \"how can i change 0.0 to make my fleet of 12 stealth bombers sov killers?\".:edit: to clarify. i'm not against changes to the way things work in 0.0. i'm against the ones that have been proposed thus far as the fundamental reasoning behind them is wrong, leading to poor mechanic suggestions. in most cases it's because of ignorance, but that does not make them correct."
"darius, i've been following your replies to threads like these for a while. it's not about fairness or making the game ut2k.what twenty pilots can do, a hundred pilots can do five times better. more granularity of exposure and more granularity for hits to static processes won't change goons or anybody else's place in the game.what it will do is open up the field for a few hundred pilots to bypass the main fleet and go cause disruptions at home across a wide territory and engage in a more mobile war.this isn't really what i'm after though. i've been throwing the bulk of my efforts and decentralizing pos combat to create some more realistic area of engagement than \"meet us at 5-11 tomorrow at 8:42. bring your blob.\"more granular targets in the home territory are just one other way of accomplishing this relationship. more opportunities to wear on an alliance than just at the pos combat."
"still there needs to be realistic limits on what small gangs can accomplish, and i don't think killing pos should be within their capabilities.they could do small objectives that make the big battle easier, but shouldn't be the big battle."
"i've supported small-gang reinforcement a time and fuel expense but never small-gang pos destruction a sov and property expense.i'll leave the implementation out of it, but for instance, i'd like to see this as a possibility:twenty man gang goes in and chews on moon miner for two hours while dodging pos fire. moon mining discontinued until somebody hops out there with a carrier or ospreys and dodges twenty-man gang fire.this is granularity. it's not a large expense. it's somewhere between changing the map and costing the holding alliance some money for leaving you alone."
"and subtle, too!"
"i was very impressed by the eloquence. i know he's basically already driven to insanity by having to deal the arguments for sov changing hands over something trivial like capture so it's an understandable reply."
"it doesn't make him wrong. small gangs have a tactical role already, and there's nothing more small gangs can do because of timezones."
"i didn't claim it made him wrong. i claimed it made him a prick who wasn't contributing much of anything to the conversation. hardly unique around these parts, of courseand i include myself in that, but that doesn't stop me from poking fun."
"darius, frankly you're reading what you want to read, rather than what is there. nobody has proposed anything close to \"12 stealth bombers become sov-killers\" or \"cs in space\" here or anywhere else, and in fact in this very thread people have agreed on just the opposite. the baseless comments you're making are unconstructive to the point of trolling. let's get back on track please, this is a very constructive thread and obfuscating the discussion with off-track rants demeans the openminded and productive debate that was taking place."
"hey kelsin, you might some perspective on this issue. you're in a non-0.0 alliance. why don't you start a thread outlining/discussing the reasons that a competent, healthy, and motivated high-sec or low-sec alliance cannot realistically break into 0.0 and thrive there under the current system. then we can look at ways to enable more people to attempt to play king-of-the-hill in 0.0."
"tell that to gs blackops small ship/small gang force that lives in enemy territory disrupting logistics, ratting, mining, etc. they were a prime driver in the collapse of bruce a couple of months ago."
"trollthe answer is because pos warfare is about capitals and who can field the most shyt at a scheduled battle. no amount of tactics can make up for that moment when you're cyno'd in on by a hundred caps. 0.0 presence is black and white when it comes to differentiating the capitally rich with the capitally poor.i have been a part of this on both ends. up in the north poor little non-coalition alliances getting overwhelmed by 100+ caps and who cares what they had. down in the southern north watching smash dissolve and rk turn terrorist.this is why i'm pushing mainly to increase the legitimacy of sov holding tools such that they allow more room for tactics and skill.i'm avoiding being robin hood. it's not about saying a huge fleet shouldn't be more effective than a smaller fleet. i want to open up the field for a tactically immaculate attack carried out against a lazy enemy to give them the upper hand. at current, it's blob vs blob on one grid with general lag leading his forces against general desynch in a contest of nerves in tolerating such a randomized situation."
"their towers didn't get burned out by blackops gangs. in the end affecting sov requires capitals. because the fights are scheduled and happen on one grid, they require moar capitals.i only want to change the fights to multi-grid."
"nande, just ignore the trolls - keep engaging in thoughtful discussion and it will bear fruit. ccp already agrees with many of the basic principles we've been talking about and it's simply a matter of distilling them into a few proposals without getting derailed by trolling.i'd just advise sticking to base principles for the most part so as not to get off track, and a good list of changes can be developed to put through to the csm."
"not that i particularly see myself as a neutral broker, but being neither with goons nor star fraction, i'm taking the opportunity to call out anyone who goes over the table as a troll.toman's post was 100% troll. star fraction is out of providence because of cva or whatever and toman was trying to poor some salt on that fact.anyone who attempts to disrupt discussion with no clear goals for progress will get toasted when it comes time to bring a final proposal to the csm."
"i'm not trolling. i'm really interested in hearing what the problems are.as for what you suggested about needing 100 caps: what's stopping you as high-sec or low-sec alliance? all it takes to get a 100-strong capfleet is isk and cap-capable pilots. anyone can train for caps, and anyone can earn the isk for them. they honestly don't cost that much. for example, star fraction has a not-insignificant capfleet without being a 0.0 entity, and nothing is stopping them from getting more.so, i don't really buy your first justification for why a healthy, determined high-sec or low-sec alliance can't carve out space in 0.0 under current mechanics.no, i wasn't. the only things i know about sf are that they have a number of capital pilots and a lot of t2 bpos. nothing about their history in 0.0. i had no idea they'd even tried to head into 0.0 in the past. serious question: suppose sf or pick another high-sec/low-sec alliance with some potential; i don't know any by name wanted to take geminate for themselves. what game mechanic is going to unfairly get in their way? what un-opposable roadblock will defeat them?look at tri vs. hydra right now. tri had lost all its 0.0 space, but now they're on their way to taking some."
"he's drawing you off-topic nande. there is not a question of \"why can't alliance x do y?\" the question is how to improve the territory control system of eve."
"i think an important part of identifying the ways to improve the sov system is to identify all the problems with it. you've already identified one well-known problem: the game can't tolerate a lot of ships on a single grid or a single node, for that matter. but there are other problems that need to be addressed. i think that one important problem is the perception that it's not generally possible for a capable group of people to get a foothold in 0.0 and begin to expand. we should pin down what game mechanics make 0.0 so static and think of ways to address them.of course, if i'm interrupting a private conversation between you two then feel free to ignore me. or you might want to take it to email or something if you're having trouble filtering out the \"noise\"."
"i've never argued that it's impossible. i have argued that pos warfare is broken and one of the consequences is inability to affect sov except through mechanisms that force small powers to play into the hands of large powers.there are 11,000 carriers in eve. i'm aware they're not incredibly hard to come by.the weapon of outnumbered forces throughout the history of mankind has been and always will be skirmish tactics and using superior mobility and tactical freedom of not being large and sedentary. eve pos combat gives us scheduled battles that completely negate any of those skirmish tactics and in fact place all sovereign emphasis on giant fleet battles that are filled with lag, further negating any usage of tactics.the mechanics of pos warfare designed to prevent time zone abuses are accidentally killing off the best weapon of outnumbered forces. darius and other voices continually argue that nothing should be done to nerf large alliances as if people have a right to 0.0. the issue isn't the inherent strength of numbers but that smaller powers don't have access to their logical war-fighting tools of choice and are forced by mechanics designed to address time zone imbalance to fight on the favorable terms of a larger force.goons themselves didn't win the battle in syndicate against bob. they made it to where there could be no winner using zerg tactics and a bunch of alts. bob had nothing left meaningful to destroy. to a large alliance who is established in 0.0, getting wiped out means a huge loss of property and infrastructure. zerg tactics can't work there.i'm working to undo the accidents of time-zone balancing as well as add tactical mechanisms of not fighting on the larger power's terms. there should be no entitlement to favorable engagements for larger powers."
"i don't find that perception, or the perceived problem itself, to be an issue. if you do feel free to come up with ways to address it, but it's just a troll.things that do need improving in 0.0:separation of logistics, security and sovereignty.opportunities for guerilla attacks against infrastructure.increased tools for territory security.the above addressed with an eye to layering of vulnerabilities to encompass siege, fleet and small gang tactics."
"i kinda feel like this whole issue is driven by ccp's request for design ideas for small-gang objectives in sov warfare and not by any genuine passion for change along those lines in any large segment of the player base. they're looking for grass-roots solutions to a problem that doesn't really bite the grass roots. i can see why you're really eager to hold on to the focus of anyone who will actually continue to have this conversation with you.if ccp hadn't put out that rfp asking for small-gang objectives in sov warfare, i wonder if we would have seen any serious suggestions along those lines.i mean, i agree that since they asked for it and people have ideas that they should get those ideas to ccp and it's fun to discuss and all. i just kind of wish the effort would go to problems that a lot of players have with the game rather than problems that ccp has with the game. v0v"
"my personal issue is that we, the north, rolled up some alliances without much thought. not because they weren't smart, willing, and prepared. it was because the nature of pos warfare forced them to engage us on 100% unfavorable fleet terms.when it came time for smash to dissolve and rk was still going, i sympathized with rk for having the fortitude to stick with the fight. i knew that just like the alliances we rolled up in the north earlier, rk was at best going to get thrown into losec before any resurgence.the timezone balancing mechanisms of pos's stick everyone into a horridly boring and overly straightforward engagement with very little room for good pilots and good commanders to make a difference.in the end i think everyone will recognize huge benefits of better sov tools. less boring pos shooting. more room for tactics. less lag. more measured defeat or loss. the end of pos spam. better 0.0 empires.many of the goals of small gang objectives can be achieved through better pos warfare, but i don't think pos warfare is a comprehensive solution. i don't believe it's time yet to abandon small gang objectives. this is the logical weapon of choice when outnumbered."
"i think we're getting way too scattered on this issue of the small gang crap.can we agree to come back on sunday and basically just let the topics go for a few days?i'm going to work on a solution in the meantime that will be based on this entire whole giant ball of discussion.there's a lot of it and pretty much everyone has some valid points. i'm getting lost myself just in the shear volume of concerns that must be balanced before any real meaningful solution can be fielded. given i am not in a large alliance, have been in a large alliance, and plan to someday be back in a large alliance, i think i can come up with a solution that has a little bit of something for everyone and in the end looks like a giant sundae of delicious treats."
"i guess it's a bit of a tangent, but can you elaborate on what you're saying about rk? we had a number of memorable for me, anyway fights against them over their pos. in several fights they outnumbered us. after looking at their ship fittings on kms and listening to recordings of what was going on on their ts, i really doubt that tz or membership-numbers issues were why they failed. i mean they didn't even bother to time most of their pos; they just max-stronted them and hoped for the best.but suppose that there was a tz issue. couldn't they have also have attacked our towers outside of our prime? they were smaller at the alliance level than us, but they could still field 200+ man fleets. seems like they could have gotten something going."
"this has probably been all over coad and i'd like not to turn it into that, but here was the war in geminate as i saw it:i got back to that thing after coming back from japan. at that point, rk numbers were at about half. smash was basically gone. when you were in qt i was watching capitals running for their lives towards losec. the dissolution of smash where'd peoke go? i think contributed more than anything to a lack of confidence that robbed a lot of fighting spirit and eventually lead to total implosion. the general feeling was definitely that the battle was uphill and it would be better to wait for redswarm to go home and take back territory from the new pets. there was a huge amount of uncertainty over the point in flying a bs in the face of titans. i cannot for one second fail to recall that my alliance mates were getting very weary of flying against alliances with titans. to this fact our support fleets got smaller and smaller and then there was no point in flying our caps or that's what our cap pilots thought.it boils down to this: pos warfare is a guaranteed fleet battle with very little room to make up for numbers. people know it's black and white, so when the confidence is gone, you see the whole alliance heading straight down. people don't fit to win a fight if they don't think they can win. suddenly the numbers are not packing a punch. trust is replaced with bitterness.i can't speak for most of the large fights and definitely none of the early ones. what you see in later combat is that people don't expect to be able to win outright, so they start clinching assets and engaging with trash. even i was running around with t1 crap at that point doing little more than meatshield work.if pos combat were improved such that the mechanics aren't guaranteed to be brutal to the less potent blob, you would see alliances holding onto morale for a much longer stretch. people would believe more in the ability to craftiness and you would see more attempts to make up ground through underhanded craziness.it's a self-fulfilling prophecy of a losing alliance, but even if it weren't, the facts of pos warfare ensure that once we were off-balance, there was no coming back. smash scattered to the wind quickly and so my direct involvement was gone, but still i didn't like the situation for rk."
"this is a pretty hot topic, and i don't want it to keep clogging threads on sov mechanics.problemthe problem we're after is stay-at-home tactics. we've all done it. you bring twenty guys into system after system to find people docking up everywhere. you advertise your location, and all they do is wait it out. they have fifty people sitting in the station. you claw your eyeballs out and pray to god for your money back for that month.stay-at-home tactics should not be a costless alternative to declining an enemy's invitation for some healthy mid-size gang combat. i've done this stuff even when outnumbered. it's fun. it's a weekend \"let's go pew pew with the neighbors.\" it wouldn't be bad if it happens more often.solutionintermediate goals will exact a toll on stay-at-home tactics and form an extra incentive to get a gang together and go fight. that is what we're after. i fly to go shoot the enemy. i probably shoot enemy. ground rules for specific solutionsi've made a lot of proposals about small-gang objectives that are in between changing the map and camping an empty system. pos destruction or other sov changing activity is out of the question a task that should requires a siege gang.my recommendation for any small gang objectives is that they disrupt things temporarily and do not cause lasting property or sov damage. that is, you can skirmish the hell out of a defending alliance and cause them lots of headaches, but you can't burn down their towers without going toe to toe in fleet combat.to summarize:stay-at-home tactics blow!any intermediate goals should not be sov-related or involve property loss.expenses of a successful guerrilla operation should involve fuel/lost production.the easiest way to measure the success of such a war is, \"what portion of 23 hours a day do we have their logistics screwed up?\"the metric is time in the success condition vs. time in the defeat condition. how many hours a day can you keep your mining array online etc. thus the conditions are automatically balanced for timezone strength. if they're holding you offline 22 hours a day, it's not because they attacked at 3am.so that's it. where do we draw the line on what a smaller gang can do and cannot do?"
"should be able to go into a system and lock it down. camp gates. camp stations. basically the presence of a small gang should be a disruption to individual money-making like missions, ratting, and asteroid mining. the only thing a small gang can do is make everyone run away.because of timezones, small gangs are too dynamic to have the ability to damage anything static like logistics. if timezones weren't a problem and we all played 24/7 then it may have worked, but it's a video game we balance with rl, and that's the situation we have to work around."
"my objection to this as a goal is very simple. \"hey guys, let's go camp their station, and the less we get to shoot, the more we're doing our job!\"your arguments are precisely why i'm hardlining the assertion that any small/midsize gang objectives should only really be effective when you win consistently and the defender never responds. make them easily repaired and have no loss of property. cost is through time spent in the disrupted state, not what's destroyed or captured.for instance, suppose a moon miner is more like a ship with 5m hp that can't be engaged by a dread moving target oh god! but can be trapped outside the bubble before making the delivery run and slowly pecked into a reinforcement that burns a small amount of stront but gives back all stront once the shield is healed.5m hp is easily within striking distance of a handful of hac's flying between pos guns for an hour or so. it's just something do do in between the \"we have de-facto sov in your territory\" and the \"we're burning down your towers\" phase. it would give defenders more reason to come out of the station and attackers something to do in between.bingo. small-gang objective that's not timezone unfair and gives an incentive to go fight instead of waiting for the bad hippies to go away."
"it is timezone unfair if i can go shot your npc moon miners during your non-primetime. anything that requires a constant presence around the clock is timezone unfair."
"there's a major difference:in pos warfare, if i can tear down your tower at 3am, i can put it up with my own. i have caused an irreversible loss of hardware instantly. i have gained a strategic advantage overnight. i could use this to change sov overnight. this is why sov needs such strong timezone balance.with disruption over time objectives, you can stop the bleeding at 6am. the enemy can only cost you money if you fail to respond at all. they can only keep you from restoring operation as long as they are in system with de-facto sovereignty.also, this isn't about the biggest fleet the enemy can come up with at 3am. it's a small-gang objective that only requires a small-gang defense."
"i'm going to head off this discussion and propose a different style of mechanic for the small gang objective:a system that has a cycle over a 24 hour period and truly requires more time of the day spent in a victory state than a defeat state to start inflicting damage.mechanic is...a structure that can maintain itself and has a limited capability to go into \"operational reinforced\" where it keeps running while reinforced. this works against a buffer of capacitor. in normal operation, capacitor is stored. in reinforced operation, capacitor is dried up. 24hours of capacitor. if it is under reinforced for the majority of the day, it will have a negative effective recharge and eventually go into real reinforced.this would negate the 3am attack as long as you don't also fail to head off the 9am attack, the 3pm attack, and the 11pm attack."
"i think you guys just pinpointed an important issue. there are three levels of disruption any attacker can inflict on a defender:1 permanent - destroying their assets and replacing them with your own, preventing resumption of defender activity.2 interruption - disabling assets until they are repaired/replaced and defender activity resumes.3 suppression - disabling assets until the attacker's action stops, defender activity immediately resumes.the difference between #2 and #3 are what you're getting at.right now small gangs can do #3 by camping gates/stations, preventing ratters and miners from doing their thing. but if there are no ratters or miners, they can't really make an impact that lasts beyond their departure from the area.disabling station services is meant to be a #2. what i think nande is looking for is more things along those lines, especially in regards to passive income generation.the counterargument fahtim is making is that if the enemy can disable #2 anything that an alliance really cares about during an off-peak period, then that alliance will feel compelled to protect their assets 23/7 lest they lose income/sov/whatever all night while people are sleeping.but if interruption/disabling/#2 actions are restricted to things alliances don't care about...well what's the point? and if sensitive assets can only be suppressed #3 and never interrupted #2, then the attacker has to camp those assets 23/7 to make an impact. and so that is the impasse.off the top of my head, one solution would be to engineer a time limit into any interruptions - the asset requires a certain amount of time for automated repair mechanisms to get itself back online. so an insurgent attack on some asset would have an effect that lasts past the time they leave, but not indefinitely until a defender returns to take some repair action. then it is just a question of determining how long the downtime is following an attack like that."
"don't assume that you're dealing with a defender who plays for 11.5 hours and and an attacker who plays for 11.5 hours.assume you're dealing with a defender who plays for 8 hours, attacker 1 who plays for 8 hours, and attacker 2 who plays for 8 hours. attackers 1 and 2 don't even know each other exist and don't intend to coordinate. but between the two of them they can keep an objective down for 2/3 of the day outside of the defender's prime just because of how the timezones work out.this entire discussion is just kelsin's stargate stuff rehashed. the real solution is to have timezone-based servers just like every other mmo and be done with it. so here's an approximation: if you want a small gang fight, go attack someone in your own timezone or get auto-blueballed."
"yeah, that's what it boils down to. pve objectives should not be implemented to fill the timezone-based pvp gap."
"what is wrong with an objective being kept down when a defender is not around to defend it?"
"because the common case is that a defender is not around to defend 2/3 of the time or more because they have to work, eat, ****, and sleep in addition to playing eve. if a single attacker puts more time into the game than a single defender, then they should be able to win out. two unrelated attackers shouldn't compromise a defender due to a simple accident of timezones. even if the cross-timezone is attack is by design, it's still not an even playing field because you can't get a buddy to defend your space for you with the same efficacy that you yourself could defend it due to pos shield passwords and such."
"alright, in keeping with the whole \"defender should have an advantage\" angle of pos warfare, switch the timers to 8hours up-time making up for 15 hours downtime.8 hours on + 15 hours off == systems are within limits to remain online in \"operational reinforced\" status where production doesn't skip a beat.surely you're not going to argue that a defender shouldn't have to maintain de-facto sovereignty at any time."
"but what attacker can keep an objective down for 15 hours? we've just established that in the common case they're going to be playing in 8 hour blocks or less.what you are trying to do is imagine up a system for playing tug-of-war where the two sides take turns pulling on the rope, and at any point a random 3rd party can show up and pull the rope in either direction. 1 it's stupid and makes no sense it's not really tug-of-war anymore, and 2 it's not fun because you aren't really interacting with your opponent you're just standing on a field pulling a rope around by yourself."
"so you're saying that it should be 13 hours instead i thought your previous example was a ridiculous exception and am glad you've pointed that out. apologize for the argument baitingno, it's not trivial. i can go attack your moon mining while you're off in timbuktu possibly my timbuktu and demand that you break off to go deal with a roaming threat in your home territory or sacrifice the moon paycheck.so yes, you are interacting very directly with your opponent by maintaining a constant presence in their space and forcing them to address your presence or face certain time-zone-balanced doom.in fact, you can use these attacks as feints to draw the enemy away from your main objective or to stimulate the formation of a defensive gang and then hot-dropping them at the gate into the system."
"you're kind missing my point but i've lost patience with explaining. like i wrote above everything you're trying to do has been examined in kelsin's old thread with the gate-capturing mechanic. just go read that and save some electrons."
"you're talking about winning/losing territory. i'm talking about suppression of assets like passive income. i don't see anything wrong with attackers being able to suppress the passive income for instance moon mining of defenders at off-hours of the defender.i think we've already established that small gangs aren't going to be conquering territory. what we're talking about here is the function of small gangs in suppressing the security and profitability of territory held by the enemy.edit: the flaw in what you guys are bringing up here is that you're confusing destruction + conquering #1 with interruption or suppression #2 + #3."
"they both mean \"hurt\". the only difference is in the method and degree. the issue of fairness for both attacker and defender applies regardless. you don't get a free pass by saying \"yes it's unfair, but it only hurts *a little* and *sometimes*\"."
"nope. you're points in kelsin's old thread boil down to these:1 sov changing should require commitment.2 nothing should change hands because of ten guys who decide to go sit at a gate on a lark.however 1 no sov is changing hands. de-jure sov will be under no contest in this mechanism.2 the ten guys have to show up constantly and have to pack enough ammo to finish the job. likely they will do it in multiple systems. even more likely they're doing it to lure you into forming gatecamps and spreading out in your own territory so they can attack you piecemeal. this is anything but a random series of attacks."
"i've already established that a system will be balanced for timezones. it's therefore not unfair. it's easier to repair and hurts less. that is the relationship, not a trade of unfairness for less impact."
"this is the point that needs to be sorted. i'll go ahead and argue that it is not time zone unfair to have your passive income interrupted, whether it is during your primetime or not, and in fact this is exactly the objective small gangs should have - the disruption of fixed infrastructure passive income. rather than assuming a territory holder is entitled to 24 hour passive income generation, the income derived from something like moon mining can be based on how consistently secure an alliance can keep their infrastructure. an alliance with good time zone coverage and security within their territory can maintain security and keep their passive income going for more of the time. poor coverage or poor security reduces the income.i'd like to hear arguments on that specific point."
"keslin, i'm siding with fahtim and toman here. if you can disrupt something with the first attack, you can just attack over and over again in their off-peak hours. it requires no real coordination. you could just be passing through in your mauler and dodging pos guns for six hours while afk.more than one attack. advantages to the defender. the real purpose is to expose assets and force involvement in the home territory. the disruption is a consequence for not accepting that challenge."
"so you're sure you're not just rehashing over the same ground, then?"
"it's looking more and more to be the case that we're going in circles. i don't know what the problem is anymore. i've taken all of the angles to provide concessions to the points of fahtim and toman and still failed to start reaching a concensus.i set off with a lot of goals for improved sov. one goal is to give sovereigns more benefits to holding sov in exchange for added exposure. increase the value of space to compensate for the increased non-sov-pos-scheduled-fleet-battle vulnerabilities.please, create a wish-list of everything you could have as a sovereign that would increase the value of 0.0. then we can talk about the proper level of exposure."
"again, why assume that a defender who only logs in a portion of the day is entitled to passive income generation from fixed infrastructure during the time they are offline? why not structure the system around generating income while you can protect an asset, and having it lie dormant while you cannot?by assuming entitlement to offline passive income like that, you set yourself up for having to jump through crazy hoops to achieve time-zone parity in an area that doesn't require it.for the sake of argument, what if you tripled the current rate of income from moon mining, but implemented something like what i'm describing? a defender would only need to make sure their passive income isn't interfered with for 8 hours a day to equal their current income under this system.but that aside - good alliances have good time zone coverage and are rewarded by it - so i don't see the problem with needing good time zone coverage to get the most out of your moon mining operations in the face of insurgent attacks."
"here's my proposal for increased 0.0 riches:terra mining platform -- can be constructed at a rocky planet with sov. harvests materials associated with rocky planets. more income than a high-end moon per planet.gas mining platform -- can be constructed on a gas-giant planet with sov. harvests materials associated with gas giants. more income than a high-end moon per planet.a layered system of timed processes that are escalated at each stage and happen across the span of several days negating timezone issues can eventually stop operations. escalation here meaning that each stage requires more firepower to accomplish in a timely fashion, ending at a sub-typical tower knockdown gang. at some intermediate step, mining can be reduced to 50% and then 25% as the approach is made to a final assault. disrupted production can be siphoned off to an extent."
"nande you're straying pretty far from the question posed in the thread title.if we can just stay big picture for a moment - the question is \"what should small gangs be able to accomplish?\" i suggest that a good answer is - small gangs should be able to disable the moon mining operations of an enemy territory to inhibit their passive income.there's plenty of points around which to balance a straightforward idea like that - how much firepower it takes to do the job, how long it takes, how long it takes a defender to re-online a miner, whether automated repair is possible, whether disabling results in a total halt of income or only partial, etc.and it admirably fulfills all the requirements laid out in the op."
"i'm working on a full draft for a new structure. if the idea flies, we can use the same modifications for pos's. it's in line with the total proposal for fixed sov and more meaningful 0.0 ownership.i'm going to work on a new model where there are degrees of production lost as phases of the disruption are left unchecked. production isn't lost 100% until the whole platform is reinforced as if it's going to get trashed after it comes out.in between that phase and the initial harassment, i'm going to propose several states of operational reinforcement that each come with a little bit more lost production and finally the capability to steal some product.each phase has more predictability scheduling for a fight and requires more firepower than the last.this would be ideal in my opinion. small gangs do small things. large gangs do large things, and everything in between happens in measured steps."
"i think this is definitely the direction to take this thread.the opposition is to erosion of 0.0 stability.by raising the value of 0.0, erosion is avoided even as more exposure is added."
"dude. spacing. for the love i god my eyes are bleeding."
"sounds like u need glasses ="
"i wouldn't even read the cure to cancer if it was formatted like this."
"well first i'd like to respond to the 24th sentence in this post by commenting that it's not very well organized and that even though you've gotten the point already by now it's kind of fun to troll a forum from time to time and anyway, run on sentences are really hard to read and conjunctions and stuff take tie too many things together sometimes and posts that are really hard to read just get harder and harder to read and are you still with me sometimes i ramble on and on and on and on. not to be too hard on you. try to learn to use the bullet point lists and other organizational tools like underlining and italics to make it obvious which parts of the post we need to read and which parts are there to provide more details/commentary. i seriously just wrote this entire wall of text without thinking too much and just relying on a pretty fast typing ability. cheers m8 good luck. never ever ever again wall of text us to death omg i've discovered the cure for cancer, but you'll never find it in this huge post simply because it's buried near the end of a well-reasoned set of rambling with no discernible organization. how am i doing?"
"members of goonswarm can read?"
"my alt is in shock too about the goonfleet reading thing"
"sorry guys i'm not a forum *****. i spend more time in game actually doing things that most people just talk about on the forums. but you are right sorry for the block of text.overall point- fleet mechanics need to be adjusted"
"please include this topic under your fleet list:[issue] fleet battle lag - give us back warfare on a massive scale."
"a new type of container for private pilots - the stats of a station container, but without all the secuirty systems, database clogging, and the possibility to get rid of them when we move on:[issue] insecure station containera very simple new item that make pilots' lives simpler, and even removes tons of un-necessary data being stored in the databases."
"fix this, mkckay?"
"signed this needs sorted!!!!!"
"make them something other than the butt of jokes.windjammer"
"signed..."
"/supported sounds like a good idea"
"i'd support this as long as a player would get to set their character's skill level instead of just having every skill. i know players use sisi for more than just looking for bugs. if you had every skill you'd have no way to really see how your build would work on tq."
"all issues agreed with bud, and inc research and construction times i fully support as well."
"setting of skills is a nice idea as well, would allow you to lower skills not just raise them, and there are times where that would be of use for testing."
"this is a really nice idea, and would go a long way with helping of the testing. i approve."
"bah this proposal needs more visibility, it is approvable!"
"/signedthe fittings could be saved on the client just like the overview settings are if server load is a problem. ought to be exportable/importable as well so saving on clients won't be an issue, people would soon find web sources with tons of stored fitting files. this would also enable eft to integrate with this, fit in eft then import then load, huge usability improvement :"
"might be hard with eft, but what about this:i fit out my ship, click this button called lets say \"export fittings\" and it will be saved on your own, client, on your computer."
"against.added: nano nerf is killing solo warfare imo."
"against nano nerf as proposed because i am against blob warfare . . . and thought ccp was trying to work to discourage blob warfare - nor encourage it.did not ccp say they were working to move away from blob warfare?"
"def against"
"in the middle of the nano nerf hype, i hope you will find this refreshing idea worthy to show direction how to change the local in the future.previous suggestions were based on ancient ideas, like completely eliminate local channel, or allow people leaving this channel. these are bad in basic imho, because intelligence should work on more levels, than \"having\" or \"not having\".short introductionthe basic idea of neural networks is that whenever you your ship enter a new system, your ship connects to an information hub located within the system which provides it with information about local. a system can have multiple information hubs, which can be maintained both by npc and by player organizations. the kind of information available through these information hubs depends on the level of access the hub is providing to the pilot. the level provided is standing-dependent, their subnetworks can be standing-dependant and subscription-based too. the maximum level of intel provided by player maintained networks is also might depend on the system sovenerity level of the entity providing the information. possible hubs players can use: in empire space the system holder faction is providing hub access to anyone who subscribes for this service and has high enough standings to access the hubs. this means that the amarr, the caldari, the gallente and minmatar, and also the pirate factions operate their own neural networks players may be able to connect to. furthermore, hi-quality services can be accessed like the faction navies e.g. caldari navy subnetworks, providing a better quality of service, but also at a higher price. in hi-sec concord is providing a free neural network as well, which is available to anyone, but criminals. in 0.0 player corporations and alliances have to deploy their own hubs if they want to use them. a neural network hub structure can be anchored to posses, which provides information to the pilots who have access to it. the quality of service depends on the subscribtion, and the maximum qos achievable by hub structures is same with the souvenerity level of the system. hubs located in sov 3 and sov 4 systems are much more accurate and detailed than those in sov 0, sov 1 and sov 2. the other way to get infromations in systems one does not have a friendly pos in is the use of role ships recons and/or neural network probes. recon ships may serve as a neural network hub, and the level provided could depend on whether the ship is cloaked or not and skills ofc. the probes are similar to scan probes, they can be launched from probe launchers and provide some level of qos to all those, who are in the same gang/network."
"concept details the neutal network is a concept, where the main idea is to force the players to organise their local for themselfes. the base idea is simple, if you do nothing, you wont receive any kind of intelligence about people present. \"do for it\" is not as hard as it might sound at first. equipments, like system scanners at poses, or proper scan probes, or role ships can provide information on many levels about who is along with you.the \"many levels\" means four levels, it's not an accident, that it's the same number, like the sovereignity levels have. anchorable devices cant provide better quality of information level, than the level of sov. in the system. recon ships and covert ops class frigates may provide intelligence on three levels 1-2-3, based on if the ship is cloaked, or not, or in case probes were used for the better quality, what kind of them were gathering the information.in \"high sec\" systems people may use npc faction networks if their standings are good enough towards the given faction. concord network should be also present and avaliable for everyone, whose the security status is a non negative number, lower personal sec status means an auto-kick.since its kind of impossible having \"good enough standings towards all npc factions\", there would be gaps in \"low sec\" by default, which should be normal. increasing the sight of a pilot might be avaliable by player networks in low sec also, but not with the current sovereignity system. if it would be possibe having \"major sov.\" and \"minor sov.\" in a system, low sec could turn into paradise for a lot of people. maintaining low sec networks and renting them for some isk could be a profession and ofc source of conflict. anyways, there is a big potential in this imho.it should be possible to join multiple networks at the same time. joining a system, where there are multiple networks present always means that player receives the best quality of information automatically. networks sould be working both on alliance and corporation level. this means joining the amarr network is nice, but i'm sure by joining the imperial navy's network might be better source in most cases, just like the khanid network in in the khanid kingdom. each faction has it's main network, joining its subnetworks faction member corps should be optional."
"in case of player network, the situation is similar to npc networks. if a corporation/alliance founds a new network, the first thing which has to be defined is the nain network node, which is the default, custom filtered node, intel sources can be strained off by information type, like poses only/ships only/probes only, xy corp assets only, or other restictions, like max 1st and 2nd level only. subnetworks, which provides quicker, better information can be reserved for true allies/more isk.in a system, which is no man's land, if there is no intel source present, there should be no intel at all, except about people on common networks. i'm sure many people are concerned about the future of roaming gangs, and stuff. having a friendly recon ship in system solves the problem, you wont fly blind, as long as there is a covert ops/recon ship with you and on a common network.also if this system comes live, sending distress signals finally can come into game. the main problem with distress signals in the current system is obvious, if you are already in trouble, you wont call in your enemies too. if you are able to pick which networks should transmit the distress signal, only your friends will receive your message. the message in itself is not enough, people on common network with the distress signal frequency also see the location as a warpable beacon.to avoid \"fun with sending distress signals\", this should not be a free feature, i guess 1m isk should be enough to make people \"bored\" with this.with the neural network, new type of agent missions can be implemented, like travel to hostile territory, probe some stuff, kill some stuff, rest like usual. if you are still reading, you must be really curious, what are these levels exactly, what kind of difference might be there... well, let me introduce my guess:basic 1 level:1 minute delayshows friendlies in system, by namedisplays whether unknown presence is in systemreports about ships entering / leaving the system names only for friendliesplease visit your user settings to re-enable images.story is simple, 1 neutral/hostile guy left the system, then later a friend, who is on a same network, like \"you\" has joined the system. the refresh rate of this level is 1 minute, or whatever.moderate 2 level:30 secs delayshows friendles in system, by nameshows local countreports about ships entering / leaving the system names only for friendliesplease visit your user settings to re-enable images.the story here is simple too, 1 neutral/hostile left the system, then 3 of them joined. this level provides double speed refresh rate compated to the basic level.advanced 3 level:no delayprovides list of both enemies and friends, by nameshows both enemies and friends entering system, by namecustomizable statistics, like summariesplease visit your user settings to re-enable images.this is what you could see on the third level, its actually same with the current local, except it is able to show who is joining and leaving the system.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.and this is what local could be, if players were able to customize the channel if high level intel is available. i'm sure many people would not care joins/leaves for each random people, if in a middle of a fleet battle and lag it would be cool, if it would be easy to follow the odds all the time.the last one is the home level 4, which is about the same with the previous level, but with intel about ship types also for each pilot."
"now you may ask, what is the point, why even touch local? i brought this up because of i'd like to propose a better alternative than here has mentioned. otherways, it's because:- you could be able to take advantage by getting better intel- you could be able to blind your enemies by killing their intel source which could be fun in the middle of a fleet battle, or home system- you could send/receive distress signals- you could earn money by advertising and renting out your network- people were forced to claim systems, it would be an interest to populate 0.0 more, than ever- blind spots in space, where anything can happen like in good old times- recon ships would finally get the recon role- imagine, how many chinese farmers would die in the first week :- alliances were able to decide, who is getting free intel on local in their sovereign systems- finally low sec could receive a nice boost- guess other stuff too...here is about why i dont think all this would be a barrier for people.and here are some thoughts about recon ships."
"yes."
"that's horrible.why shouldn't i be able to recruit mercs to help me in a war i started? why shouldn't i be able to just pay them to wardec someone's alt corp? etc.seriously now, what do you want with the changes? the mercenary profession is quite fine.seriously, did any of you csm people hear about the 'it's not broken, don't break in on purpose'? it's a simple concept to grasp."
"i like it."
"this is a really good idea .it will actually make sense to put a bountey on someone after this .but there is a small thing i see as a problem. if you put a bountey on someone you expect him/her to get killed and you don't care if the person that is going to do it has a high or a low standing with ird . you do however care if he does the job or not.ird standing has very litle to do with that .... someone with low pvp experience can get lots of ird standing by just killing a ton of people via bountey contracts in jita . while a more expierenced pvper might go looking for that one big special badguy, fly trough potentially dangerous space . to gather intel on his target and eventually pin him down and kill him.now who of these 2 people would you like to go after your 100 m bountey contract on the goonswarm ceo ^^ :p.edit : i forgot the thumbs up !!!"
"good stuff."
"/signed"
"i think you're on the right track, in as much as the bounty system needing a rework, but this idea is just more rigid mechanics and \"cans\" and \"can'ts\" forced upon the game. not supported, sadly."
"1.0"
"your merc contracts thing sounds good on the surface, but you're going to have wise-guy merc corps out there who accept contracts and then split the fee with the deccing corp to get the war lifted without firing a shot or losing a ship. the net effect will be that the corp that got decced paid a ransom, even though that's what they were trying to avoid.making bounties into open contracts that anyone can accept wouldn't solve the issue of them being too easy to exploit. here is a suggestion that i made, c&ped from the features ideas section for your convenience:bounty hunting levelsworks basically the same as levels in missions. as you progress in level you're allowed to go after progressively bigger targets.level 1: up to 1,000,000 bountylevel 2: up to 10,000,000level 3: up to 100,000,000level 4: up to 1,000,000,000level 5: unlimitedto achieve each level, you need a certain number of \"confirmed kills\" with a passible k/d ratio.level 2: 50 kills 60% k/dlevel 3: 250 kills, 70% k/dlevel 4: 500 kills, 80% k/dlevel 5: 1000 kills, 90% k/dthis does a couple of things. it makes bounty hunting into a \"real\" profession that has a progression and some prestige to it, and it makes it harder to exploit. by the time you get to the upper levels, you are a proven, dedicated bounty hunter, so someone who cheezes off a rich industrialist and gets a 1b bounty on his head won't be able to just have a random buddy of his pod him and split the bounty.bounty hunting locatorlet bounty hunters communicate with locator agents from space. the higher you go in the profession the higher the level agent you can use. higher level agents provide quicker answers.sec status requirementyou have to get a concord license to go bounty hunting. you obviously have to have a positive sec status. criminal activity of any kind, or associating with criminals i.e. being in the same corp, trading with them or giving them money can cost you your license. net effect is that you have to choose pirating, or bounty hunting, but not both.target requirementslicensed bounty hunters can collect bounties anywhere in space for those who either:a have a sec. status under -2.0b belong to a corp that has been the aggressor in an empire war within the last 30 days.this keeps \"civilians\" from being targeted and griefed with bounties.level decay and resetto maintain your bounty hunter level you must maintain the k/d ratio for that level, and 10% of the required kills for that level per month. failure to do so will bump you down to the next lower level. bounty hunter level resets to 1 upon character transfer. this keeps people high level pirates, especially from buying and warehousing bounty hunter alts to use to collect the bounties on themselves. it also requires that the player be a fairly dedicated bounty hunter to stay at the upper levels of the profession."
"i read the pdf file and like the idea...some points - bounties are looked at as way to \"cost\" the target... thus a bounty contract is issued as described, by a person with kill rights with several amounts...1 total bounty to be paid out - this is the total isk value that will be paid out for this contract.2 damage % - this is a value, between 20%minimum and 80% maximum. a bounty hunter accepts a contract, finds and attacks the target of that bounty contract and destroys the ship the target is in... 100% of the insurance value of that ship is multiplied by the damage % and paid to the bounty hunter from the total bounty. if the target of the contract is podded, the total cost of the replacement clone closest clone that covers the targets sp and any implants average market value * damage mod for implants is deducted from the total bounty and paid to the bounty hunter. only the clone replacement cost is not modified by the damage % in the pay out process. the bounty hunters are paid by their results... and podding a naked clone pod is not all that impressive.the other thing that i remember was it seems that there was a limitation on who could accept the contract placed by the contractor, and i disagree with that idea, the bounty contract system should be blind... put the contract out there and let the chips fall where they may.another change would be the targets of bounties need to be visible  we currently can see a little skull icon on a pilot with a bounty on their head, that icon should remain, the amount of the bounty should not show, just that that pilot has a bounty contract on their head."
"again, this is the status quo. you can do that as-is. i don't know many who do, though - the random merc corp the decced hire has to be willing to pay off their enemy to avoid the fight. most of them would rather just keep their commission and fight than lose half their money off the top. this is why damage-based payouts are the correct way to do it. they're unexploitable. we already have those. bounty hunters don't need special locator agents, they have the normal ones. if you wanted to make a locator agent use range skill, i could go for that, but it should be for everybody. so you want squeaky-clean bounty hunters, who aren't even allowed to be in corp with someone at negative sec? and if you've put in 1000 kills, with a 90% ratio, and you happen to buy ammo off someone at negative sec, you lose all your experience? that's not just stupid, it's completely insane. and besides, what's wrong with both? bounty hunters are shady people, it's in the nature of the beast. or you could use the present system, where they go on people with negative sec status. and what's wrong with griefing? you focus far too much on preventing odd little corner cases, and not enough on making the profession functional. you require that someone who wants to be a top-end bounty hunter has to kill better than three people per day in order to be able to collect big bounties. that's nearly impossible - even if it wasn't for travel time and issues of when people are online, there aren't enough bounties in existence to maintain very many people at 5. and besides, why does the person who put up the bounty care who collects it? they want to cause pain, not ensure that their hired killers live in a state of grace."
"ok i know this is old but i still want to support it ... ^^something i find ridiculas is that ccp charges the same amount for a month subscribtion in us $'s as in euro's . so i pay 34,99 euro's a 2 months via subscribtion ... while i pay in us dollars at gtc vendors saving me 12 euro's ...."
"about time...supported."
"nefing again, last update they sed they wernt going to nerf anything, and now thay are"
"in favor of the general spirit of the motion, but not fully behind the implementation.i think i understand what you're getting at here, but, as has been said ad nauseum already, the implementation leaves much to be desired. the mission types you've suggested are already part of the everyday life, so to speak, of the major 0.0 entities goonswarm, bob, et al, and to provide a source of income for this is rather pointless. this is not to say, however, your idea is wholly without merit, but you do fail to grasp the environment of null-sec space, and it shows. perhaps input from the other respected csms with said experience would solve this problem?with regards to player-created missions: no. no, no, no, no, no, nein, nyet, non, a thousand times, <U+03BF><U+03CD><U+03BD>. apart from the fact your average player, frankly, has all the creative ability of a slug, the bureaucracy required to approve, code, and implement these missions would be mind-boggling at best and completely ineffectual at worst. there simply is no way to implement this idea efficiently without separating the wheat from the chaff, so to speak. you had me at npc vendors, you dropped me on my head when you said mediators. alliances don't need npc mediators; many already have high-ranking members whose sole purpose is diplomacy. failing that, the big stick* can always be waved and, if necessary, dropped on the head of your enemies.*note: big stick can apply to capital ships, titans, or in the case of goonswarm, blobs of t1 frigatesso what is to be done about 0.0 sec and agents with respect to it?well, therein lies the problem. as was stated previously, deadspace complexes could help make 0.0 sec worth the trouble. please note, i am referring to the conquerable portion of nullsec, not the haphazard npc-controlled parts, which are little more than high sec with no rules. agents can have a place in these areas, but the implementation is rather tricky, as has been noticed already. logistics missions, while an option, are redundant as they are already a factor in maintaining poses, ratting missions are redundant, as are many of the missions available in high sec. faction warfare brings up another problem as it can lead to members of a specific alliance fighting with other members, simply by having a corp choose a different side. this also has the unfortunate side effect of shoehorning members of said corps into fighting a war that is not necessarily beneficial to them. what good does it do the average minmatar player to fight for the amarr? lol speed nerf i don't presume to have answers to any of these questions, since i am rather lacking in the subtle nuance of making money in zero sec myself hi, delta squad, but agents could be brought in, theoretically speaking, to help the average grunt pay for the carrier that he dreams about when getting popped in his tackling frigate. pirate npcs could be an option. hell, even \"delegates\" of concord could be brought in, offering missions to take out rats in belts, and then transitioning to complexes.all things considered, your idea has merit, but simply needs refinement. as a goon, i must say more propositions like this could lead to more faith in the csms as a whole, since it proves that they aren't simply concerned with making isk in highsec.but, again, consult the members who have experience in 0.0. this is imperative, as only one who knows the mechanics can suggest improvements.tl;dr: sure, why not?"
"the more you talk, the more i find that i don't like you, because you're pretty clueless.goonswarm's moon mining pays for a large number of alliance level benefits in addition to \"upkeep\". this is the case for probably every other alliance that has nationalized moon mining. we're hardly \"exploited to fill the command's coffers\" i'm pretty sure our directors and ceo don't even get paid, true storyso yeah, while your enthusiasm is commendable, your ignorance is not. there is little more dangerous than a well-intentioned person with extremely limited info...i like how, even in this day and age, this stereotype carries on."
"probably because 80% of our fleets consist of t1 frigates, duh."
"perhaps it is a goon poking fun at this stereotype? :iiam:"
"\"federated ecumenical college of amarrian leaders\"? yeah, i could believe that."
"it just may be a goon posting."
"beats fighting over belts."
"ankh i should hate you for single handledy nerfing suicide ganking ; but i won't and i think there's some leet ideas here. one of the interesting ones is using ingame products as a simulated environment feed to make the inside of your station thrive this has a nice touch and eve does need a bit of a femininity here and there. in essence there's a somewhat good idea bubbling under here, not to be dismissed completely out of hand.i also think a person who hasn't flown in 0.0 has as much right to observe the behaviour and make a value call on what could add to it as anyone."
"because sieging a pos is a big dangerous task. capital ships and battleships are expensiveand in 0.0 battleships are very hard to make available. you simply don't do so without a competent fc and a well arranged fleet. it isn't just a level 6 mission. the fundamental problem of 0.0 is that l4 missions in highsec are as or more profitable. controlling 0.0 space costs a lot of money and time. really the only reason to live in 0.0 is ego. as has been mentioned, moon mining is generally used to keep the alliance afloat. 0.0 logistics are crazy expensive. fighting wars in 0.0 is insanely expensive. in 0.0 ships get blown up, a lot. capital ships get blown up. 0.0 isn't highsec, 0.0 pvp isn't just another version of mission running. nobody is in 0.0 for the money, people who are out to get space rich stay in highsec where it's safer and easier. i don't care about getting rich, i just make enough money to support myself."
"innominate is on the ball here, i read over the details too fast. regular missions in 0.0 would be a lot better in my opinion.ankh, you may have a bit of a skewed image of 0.0. i can't blame you, and i'm happy enough that you try to bring some sunshine in our rotten daily drag, but some remarks are a bit inaccurate. it should also be noted that any self-respecting alliance has an open financial record to ceo's, and i don't know about other alliances but ours is legit. an outpost costs roughly 25 bil, a mothership costs 20 bil, a titan costs 75 bil. most titans aren't exactly funded by the pilots themselves.oh, and a typical round trip for a carrier costs roughly 10 mil, there's a lot of capitals out there performing alliance work, so there's a nice isk drain. then there's alliance-supplied logistics ships, dreads, replacement programmes.... need i continue?"
"i like the general idea as long as there are no npc missions in player owned stations, only player made missions."
"why? why no npc agents? explain."
"so, for example, a ceo of alliance a creates a mission saying:-\"destroy the pos of alliance b in system y. it's orbiting planet w, moon z.we'll pay 10 billion isk on completion split evenly between your fleet and an additional 100 million to the fleet commander\"fleet commander a sees the mission, thinks 'i can take this on' and accepts the mission. it's then up to him to gather the fleet he thinks will be required for the task, get them into position and flatten the pos while keeping the enemy fleets off his fleet's back.-----at least, that's how i'm reading into ankh's idea."
"the short version: an incredibly bad idea by someone that has never lived in 0.0 or even been in a player corp."
"because nobody would create such a mission. the pos itself is its own reward. thats the whole reasion why pos wars exist - pos's are worth ten of billions for a good pos chain. why would a player put up a mission to do something he would be doing anyway? e.g why would bob put up a mission to blow up pos's in hostile stations? and why would they do this for pos's they would be blowing up anyway?its like telling the criminal to rob a police station.also, your other comment about alliances not sharing- thats perfectly true and the sad state of 0.0 atm. most alliances in 0.0 are basically run by scammers and con men who keep all or most of the isk, resources, mining ops etc to themselves. i mean, why run contract scams when you can make a 50-100man carebear corp to make you billions a week and give you respect right?so corp memebers are just slaves who rat and mine. pvp corps at least usually share stuff, so taking over that pos = hundreds of free ships. thats why there is such a big gap of prosperity between the carebear member and the pvp member usually.player made missions would not work. people who want to kill a pos just do it or hire mercs to do it. they do not need some complex npc system that nobody will use because you do not understand 0.0.boost 0.0 npc regons with better missions that what we have currently. npc 0.0 anybody can dock so there is risk there."
"me likee."
"excellent analysis. what?and you were doing so well. : yes. no."
"when instead it's easier and probably less costly for all involved for an alliance fc to just run the op to flatten said pos that he would have done with or without a mission to do it."
"chribba has my support cuz we're both sweeds"
"hell yea"
"hi!<3 siege mode.i want to fit capital mining lasers on my dread and mine 300km aways!"
"if the local was taken away it would be nice if the scanner could differentiate between unoccupied ships and active ones. instead, maybe you wouldn't even have the ship type on scanner but rather it's size? that could be more interesting. but overall, let's get rid of low sec and 0.0 local."
"/signed"
"that market would get so infested with people trying to scam good ones and bad ones that eventually noone would bother trying to fish out the credible ones from the scams. specially when a couple of good scams kick in and people really loose isk and there will be a big scam that works, people start to sell their **** and everyone looses isk.stock market in eve, in its current form, is just a bunch of roleplayers that want it to work because it looks nice. if one values his time there are a 1000 better ways to make isk in eve, with much less risk. also about the risk, i know buying stock in rl can be risky, stocks go up and down and corporations go bankrupt. however, you never have to worry about the person taking all the shareholders money and **** off at least very very very rarely, since thats illegal. if eve doesnt have that, then eve wont have a successful stock market. end of story."
"giving people better and more tangiable reasons for sticking to their chosen corporation would be a start. how can anything be valued at all if the most valuable asset of all the pilots can and will up and leave at the slightest sense of an uphill journey?before there are benefits to staying loyal to your corporation coded into the corporate interface the stockmarket need not be."
"there are corporations that have been around for years. these would appear to be safe investments, and not that hard to find. also, so what if everyone looses isk on a scam? it would only be a problem if you are an idiot that has all of his/her investment capital in one place, diversify. it is easy to just lay out a blanket doomsday statement saying there will be too many scammers it can't work. but how do we limit that possibility as much as possible? as far as making money, huge sums of money are made in the rl market, i don't see why eve would necessarily be any different with a working stock market.i'm sorry for not understanding you, wendat; could you please explain how individual loyalty to a corporation has anything to do with stocks. people quit working for corporations in rl all the time without affecting stock value."
"you are correct. however that are not many of them, and it would make a very dull stock market to only include the \"best of the best\". and even they could end up as a scam it has happened before and with much more isk floating in active stock market, the chances of that happening would be higher.as soon as people start loosing isk to scams, even though they diversify, your going to see people get ****ed off and go do something that is not 10-20% chance of a scam. then people stop trying, sell their shares and the demand for shares goes down and everyone looses isk.yes, its very easy. because thats how it is.huge sums of money are indeed made in the rl market because people dont fly away with your isk in spaceships. people that try are normally put behind bars. i know the idea of a working stock market is very cool indeed, and i really would like to see it ingame because i really like it in rl. but what im trying to say, even though you can limit scaming to a absolute minium and buy shares all over the place to minimize the risk, your still going to see scams. theese scams will result in people not beliving in the market and it will never be what it could be with regulation."
"after reading every post in this thred, and the amazing ideas that have been pointed out and suggested.i have always wondered the possibility of having a stock exchange in eve, and being able to see the daily ups and downs of my stock. i never really thought people would be so worried about scams since there are already several scams within eve as it is! one of my corp members actually got approched by someone and that person just asked for isk. he claimed he made $150 million isk a day doing it.anyways,to the people who complain:this is straght forward, if you don't like the idea, don't play this portion of the game if it comes simple. if i was going to invest isk into a corp or alliance, i would do my research on them and see if they are a farud or not, but nothing is ever garenteed, not even your ship if you go thru a 0.5 system.i think it would be neat, that if you buy shares it displays a lot of information: from, your purchase prince, to how much you made per share, and how many current people are looking to buy... etc.now for those who are worried about fruad, why not make a standard?-corporations have to be at least 6 months old to make share's go public. -maybe have 5 different stock exchanges where you actually have to go to and register your corporation. -and in order to register your corp, you have to have an active pos, and maybe even print out the shares take them to the station and put them up for sale. this way people can contract them around.-there could be a currently employee requirement, so weive out the 1 man corps. not saying 1 person couldn't make a decent living doing it but it just protects the consumer.eve has a great market, ships get blowen up and it keeps the isk flowing.- zylawy"
"dont get me wrong, i really like the idea. however, if i were to choose from using my isk in shares that theres a high risk of being scammed aswell as the basic risk of buying stock, i would choose another profession. and when people see the light and realize that the market is just nice to look at and alot of the corps registered are possible scams, why bother? and about thoose standards, there going to have be way higher than that :"
"currently the only way to make more money in 0.0 is through drone region ratting, or moon mining. level four missions shouldn't be this rewarding and should be adjusted."
"this is me many weeks and i live full time in 0.0 -- it's perfectly viable to be a casual player down here. my impression is that a lot of highsec-only players have an unrealistic idea of the time commitment required to play in 0.0. while some alliances may require more commitment there are also opportunities for casual play.one of the biggest obstacles for casuals in nullsec is simply a matter of education. it's pretty easy to avoid undesirable engagements in eve once you've learned how, but unfortunately that's not something they put in the tutorials.maybe we need a \"burn back to the gate\" tutorial, along with a \"fit a cloak\" tutorial and a \"watch intel channels\" tutorial?"
"hahahahahahahahahah let me set you straight. no missions in 0.0empire suckshave you ever got a faction or officer spawn, i have and i can tell you 90% of faction spawns are worthless. wooo ammo and a tag awesomeofficer spawns are even more of a joke since i've lived in 0.0 for a year and haven't seen 1. someone got one in the system i rat in the other day and it was worth maybe 100mil hahahah moon mining is done on an alliance level0.0 is the \"end game\" there's no reason people living in a newbie area should be making as much as pilots in 0.0 space who have fought and paid for that space."
"something needs to be done. the sad fact remains that high-sec is far more profitable than large swaths of 0.0. either high-sec needs to be nerfed or low-sec/0.0 needs more boosts."
"i don't understand these people who think that warping into low sec is an immediate death sentence. as long as you are at the keyboard playing the game, it's not that bad. sometimes you might die with no chance to avoid it, but most of the time i don't see anyone else, pirate or otherwise.edit: i don't support putting the lvl 4's into 0.0, but putting 3's and 4's into lowsec sounds fair."
"hells yeah."
"\"don't nerf my nanos!\"\"don't nerf my suicide ganks!\"\"don't nerf again, i admit my war decs!\"\"wait, people are having fun but i can't easily shoot them? nerf the way they play!!!!\"yeah....no.not supported."
"you are a tard"
"no, i'm sick of the goddamn hypocrisy of the \"pvp elite\" in this game. apparently people being able to enjoy the game the way they like without being an easy target makes way too many e-pvpeens shrivel up and die.could high sec risk/reward/time balance be looked at and possibly adjusted? absolutely.although..with so much mission money pouring into the game at nigh catastrophic levels, you'd think that prices would be inflating faster then the blow up altar boy doll in the priests bedroom..yet somehow, this disastrous inflation that would logically be the result of mega millions/billions/trillions being 'farmed' 23/7/365 doesn't seem to be happening..so maybe it's not as big of a problem as the people whining seem to think.people have been whing that the nerfs i mentiond were like using a chainsaw to preform brain surgery. fair enough, although most reasonable people will agree that some changes were needed...but are all over the map on how much change is necessary. however, those would be minor changes when compared to the ops idea.all level 4s to no sec, and all level 3s to low sec would cause a fundamental change in the game play of what...50%-75% ?guessing, based on various things i've heard about the %age of people in high sec of the player base. pvp will actually get worse..because it's too damn expensive to replace ships without access to decent missions, and who the hell would want to do level 3 missions in low sec..the pirates/gankers and i admit, they are different things would be salivating over the new target rich environment..except, due to overhunting and don't fool yourself, overhunting would happen the people likliest to do level 3 missions would be unable to afford the constant replacement of ships, or the constant re-grinding of status due to failed/timed out missions so low sec would remain the same or even worse wasteland that it is today.and the newbie trying to get ahead in the world is stuck with level 2 missions in high sec and you think level 4s are boring or trying to latch on with a 0.0 corp/alliance..most of which have sp requirements that the newer players won't meet. so they bugger off to another game. and the people who were avoiding low sec/0.0 because they wanted to minimize their pvp exposure..well they still don't want to go to low sec/0.0, so they slowly drift away from the game not many ragequit...they just give up over time when they realize they aren't enjoying the game anymore..a slow trend, not a sudden dropso you've got the new player growth slowing as word gets out the eve has gotten even less friendly for the newcomer/casual player. the 'carebear' more specifically, the mission-runner population is slowly dwindling as they give up on the game. the only one left are the pvpers and the industrialists.great, just what you want, right?i hope you don't mind paying through the ass for named mods, since most the the supply is gone.those hardware upgrades to reduce 0.0 fleetbattle lag? well, sadly, ccps income stream has dropped significantly, so that needs to be put on hold.i'm sure eve will survive...but it will likely be a much smaller game.now..having prophesized doom...some reasonable adjustments to risk/reward that i've heardmove all level 4 agents >quality 0 to low/no-sec.dynamic agent quality..more used agents lower in quality, lesser used go up in quality more to break up mission hubs than a isk adjustment, admittedlylimit the number of missions a player can get from a certain agent or even an npc corp per day..myabe a max of 5/agent and 10/corp per day.limited, reasonable changes..which can be adjusted as needed instead of hardore nerf hammer time. the same way the nerfs i mentioned in my first post should be looked at."
"first question first: you don't know how to farm level 4 missions? good. too many people know how to already.second question: no. if you spend all day running missions with your character, more power to you. i have been known to run lvl 4's for 8-14 hours straight on my days off as a way to build up capital for my other in game activities.truth be told, the only play styles that i have a problem with are macroers and farmers. other than them, let everybody enjoy the wonder that is eve the way they want to, i say.i just wish more players felt the way i do, and would quit clogging up the forums with \"take away from them and give to me\" threads.seriously though, cheers to you, and i am glad you enjoy your activities in eve just the way they are.peace.p.s. no support for the op again."
"i was in 0.0 in the first week of playing, i borrowed some money bought an osprey and mined in s-u of syndicate. other people could join and go into 0.0 syndicate actually had agents so i could do missions their, and with a support group of my corp i thrived. people can do that if they want to sure it was hard at times but knowing i was in level three missions before the trial was out and having tackled people who tried to kill myself and others it was a hole lot better than the previous time i had tried the game and had nothing. 0.0 is a great place for newbies and allows you to learn how to fit ships well, learn to watch local, and how to pvp in frigates that cost you nothing to lose."
"no support.first the op talks about wanting to \"balance\" income and then talks about changes as ill-concieved and poorly planned out as the ccp speed nerf.yeah. whatever.back to my policy of ignoring goonathreads."
"level 4s only being in 0.0 is too extreme. level 5s only in 0.0 yes, but 4s should stay in low sec and all other levels in high sec."
"high sec can have the level fives really. i mean if you have to kill an npc cap ship in high sec go for it. it would even bring you guys together but the lvl 4 missions make more isk reliably than just about anything the average person can make in 0.0 or low sec for the risk/reward."
"average and i mean average, not top reward for missions is 20 million hour. a raven cost 80 millions, so that is 4 hours of play.average reward ratting in 0.0 is in the 30-40 million range including the not so rare faction spawns, every one of them rise the average a lot. if you want you can rat in 0.0 as long as you can run missions in high sec with very little additional risk, so there is a decent balance. naturally if you go for the \"with 2 accounts and uber faction set up i can do 60 million/hour\" posts you should balance that with the \"in my -1.00 true security system i get 120 millions hour plus faction spawns and officers\" posts."
"level 4 mission in 0.0? forgetting them?ratting in almost all regions?"
"all i see is a naked attempt by the op to try and force veteran players to live the same way he does in game.well i say to hell with that!you like living out in no/low sec? awesome! stay out there, be happy, and stop trying to ruin the game for vets who like living in empire some/most of the time.what the hell do you have to complain about anyway? you think level 3's and 4's are such awesome money makers? great! go run them yourself! it's not like their aren't higher quality agents out in low/no sec that pay out a lot more in direct isk, loot, and better missions than their counterparts in high sec right now, already in game. so how is that not balanced?? with that balance already in place in game, where is this mythical problem you are trying to dream up? i don't buy this in the least. the balance is fine the way it is.**** no support. ****"
"\"could high sec risk/reward/time balance be looked at and possibly adjusted? absolutely.although..with so much mission money pouring into the game at nigh catastrophic levels, you'd think that prices would be inflating faster then the blow up altar boy doll in the priests bedroom..yet somehow, this disastrous inflation that would logically be the result of mega millions/billions/trillions being 'farmed' 23/7/365 doesn't seem to be happening..so maybe it's not as big of a problem as the people whining seem to think.\"i think the reason why price of many things is actually going down over time despite of more and more isk entering circulation is simply because there<U+FFFD>s even more minerals/modules and such entering as well asset inflation beating isk inflation. most items are well supplied to the market and to make inventory move sellers have to compete ferociously with prices. it<U+FFFD>s easy to see from battleship prices for example.t2 doesn<U+FFFD>t have quite same pattern due to building material production being far more limited which puts effective floor on prices."
"op talks about risk v reward??dude, your alliance mates tampered with the client and, because it was undetectable, forced ccp to give everyone the same 'feature'. result: a safer eve.your alliance mates ganked **** loads of hulks and coveters and got the insurance system nerfed. result: a safer eve.of course i can see how an alliance with huge swathes of space to rent out would be interested in attracting more people to 0.0.especially as your alliance charges people a further $20 to play the game with them.is a good troll though."
"hey keep your level iv mission runners and their lagg away from 0.0 space !!!"
"you can rat for days and weeks and not see a single faction spawn, bringing them into the equation is stupid. your payout for ratting is being generous as well. if the belts have been pruned and there are some good chains set up then we can make 20mil an hour, of course that's if you aren't sharing the system with 5 other people which you usually do. the 30-40 mil range is what you get if you hit a faction spawn. in order to make 30-40mil an hour in 0.0 you have to kill 22 of the highest value rats at 1.8mil. how often do you think that happens? you're lucky to see one triple 1.8mil bs spawn in a system of 22 belts. get out."
"/signed"
"look, someone who makes his isk off level 4's in the safety of 1.0 space."
"figures a goonie would bring this up one more...mission runners support eve-online. with out them, you would be forced to go back to wow to gank newbies.why cant you let people play the way they want to? why force them to play with you? empire players are playing their game not yours. want to see eve-online die....this is the way.."
"what is this risk/reward you speak of? lag camps dont have risk...suicide ganks dont have risk...ganking newbs dont have risk....i got a better idea, istead of driving the players away, lets convert eve-online to wow is space! so after level 70 all you have to do is kill each other off with no harmful effects....stupid goon...just stupid"
"yeah no support here either.poorly thought out, short sighted, and well just not a good idea.please see the 1,000,000 other threads about this very same topic."
"then since you guys dislike this idea so much how about just allowing agents in outposts."
"strange, i get them pretty often. and not bringing them in the equation is stupid. my current average with faction spawn is 60 millions, in -0.42 sec space. without the faction spawn is 25. notice the difference of including them? still convinced that not including them is the right way to calculate the returns of ratting?"
"calling shenanigans. even assuming every one dropped a 175m item, that's an average of one faction spawn every 5 hours. unless there are some serious imbalances between a -0.7 in angel rat space, where i've had 2 in about 80 hours of ratting, i'm forced to conclude that your post is an outright fabrication."
"he might just be lucky, neither your or his subjective experience carry special validity"
"i've been playing eve for many years, i just now started running missions again...why? i needed cash, i did'nt need to fight sombody in a ratting ship against a pvp ship. so i moved back into empire and ran three level four missions...32 million isk. took me from 9am to 3pm, i do them solowhere the harm in that...6 hours of my life used to earn 32 million isk. reward...i made 3 times the amount i would have in a system by my self with 12 belts in it. 10 million 8 hours playrisk...well, comming out of warp into a trap...funny ccp real frecking funny some salvage pirate comming into my field...or some lame can tipper...did i mention having to run to a station to recharge my cap several times last night?no there isnt anything wrong with what i did yesterday, the risk i was taking equals the reward i recieved."
"no you just do not know how to run missions. or know what missions to turn down and go on to the next one."
"le sigh.1 hisec isk printing aka level 4 misisons have not always existed in this form, so no, they aren't necessary.2 they can't play the way they want to because in eve, what one person does affects others. in this case, the availability of level 4 missions makes pvp in lowsec/0.0 useless because you can't inflict any financial losses on your opponent. any losses can be made up by missioning in hisec, and there's nothing to fight over because you can get the same thing missioning in hisec."
"wts, economics 101 skillbook - only 1 billion isk l4 missions produce both lots of isk, and lots of modules/minerals. these generally tend to counteract eachother when it comes to inflation, but that does not mean that l4 highsec missions are not getting farmed, or that they are good for the economy. the nano nerf wouldn't be needed if t2 ships and modules were more expensive, but thanks to the general availability of quick, easy isk in highsec, everyone and their mother can afford a pimped out vagabond."
"this is the biggest problem i have with the current mission setup. it's tough to fight meaningful battles over territory when both sides are just replacing losses with out of corp mission alts -- and they don't care about the territory anyway because, hey, missions are better."
"hey, im a carebear, would i be more tolerable to a pvp:er only because i moved out to lowsec?"
"it has nothing to do with you being in lowsec or hisec, it has everything to do with rewards in hisec vs rewards in lowsec.and people need to stop making this into a war of pvers vs pvpers. it's not about that, it's about risk vs reward and making conflict in lowsec/0.0 meaningful."
"i can totally agree with this. i being one of these l4 mission running carebears think:1 level 4 missions are too easy after a while, mostly because they are too predictable. this makes them too farmable.2 level 4 missions pay out too much, esp. in drops. the item drops also disrupt the market and make it 'the new mining' by refining modules. some of this could also be said for level 3 missions.3 life in low sec and 0.0 is probably not rewarding enough compared to mission farming.4 pve fittings and combat are too different from pvp fittings and combat to give mission runners enough of a fighting chance in low sec. i fully agree these issues should be fixed, but not in the way that is proposed. fix them so that:* mission running is still a viable career. * missions are less farmable but more enjoyable and educational by making it more dynamic and allow more pvp-like fittings and strategies. * carebearism isn't punished* income oppertunities across the various regions of space increase according to risk"
"try searching for encounter sites while you rat. it increase the faction spawn found. and yes, you are spot on. currently i am at 1 faction every 5 hours. but as i have probably had serious luck i have halved the result to 30-40 mill as in the first post about return ratting.edit, more like 1 faction every 4 hours for that result. that is why i have spoken about 30-40 million average and not 60."
"really, really crappy idea.1. 0.0 power blocs are already too rich, don't need to get richer.so, tell me again why 0.0 alliances who can already field game-breaking cap fleets and fighter swarms that block out the sun, and can replace them like they're t-1 frigs need more static resources to farm?the economics of t2 production since the introduction of invention has already made 0.0 way too rich for its own good. it doesn't need to get richer.2. it's a freaking gamethere are already more rewards to be had in 0.0. there are already level 4 agents in 0.0, and they're higher quality than the agents in empire. the people who aren't going after them simply don't want to. they're content to play their pve game in empire. most of them are casual/occasional players who don't have time for grandious alliance goals and politics. they just want to pay their 14.95, and log on and shoot some npc rats when they want to.when goonswarm starts paying the bills around here, i will fully support your right to tell them that their 14.95 isn't welcome anymore. till then, how about you play your game, and let them play theirs. i know that you're butt-hurt that it's about to get harder to grief some segment of the eve population to make yourself feel cool and important and get your \"lulz\". but hey, get over it. 3. there is, and ought to be, room in this game for individuals.yanno, some folks just like to think outside the... er... hive-mind no pun intended. your proposal is basically to turn empire into a \"starter island\" that nobody would stay in after their trial account expires. most mmos are that way. eve isn't. most mmos have separate pve only servers. eve doesn't. welcome to eve.i'm sure you'd like eve to be a different game, you know, just for \"lulz\". don't think it's happening, bud. there are going to be folks who happily play this game that you can't grief. it's a sad tale of woe, to be sure, but i'm sure you'll live.i do love how you've redecorated 0.0 though. look at it this way, if you can't lure empire players to 0.0 by turning it into power-bloc-cum-napland, forcing them to come isn't going to work. you'll just push them out of the game, and fortunately, that isn't your call. i'm willing to bet that this time next year, their 14.95 will still be as welcome as it is now."
"1 it's not about making 00 more profitable, but hisec less profitable. also, being in 0.0. besides, 0.0 is not more profitable when you factor in the time/effort needed to defend that space.2 eve is a game where when you do something, it always affects someone else. being able to print isk in hisec dumbs down pvp in eve because you cannot inflict meaningful financial losses on your opponent because no matter how much space they lose, they can always make a lot of isk in a short time by farming isk in hisec.3 erm...it is. this does not mean you'll be successful just ignoring everyone else, it is an mmo, but it doesn't mean you need to join a corp. hell, even with the changes it wouldn't mean you need to join a corp, it would just make it easier to survive as it should be."
"that's the one reason i started this, the loss of asset doesn't reallybother me, it's the time. you can easily waste 20-30 minutes of time on a disconnect.i like the idea someone else had of assign it to a shipid rather then a session id. that would solve the problem."
"1400s and other projectiles need some love"
"support for clip size increase or dam boost + rof decrease. artilleries need to reload way too often. as for other changes i<U+FFFD>d like to have fusion as highest damage ammo and little bit higher damage values for large projectile rounds.and fix all long range gun short range ammos those are terrible quake, gleam and javelin. way too many penalties when compared to faction ammo."
"arty need a review!"
"tech lab must stay!i fear it's an api pre-nerf tho "
"techlab!!"
"fix search and posting problems before you do any of this non-sense.more wasted time that could have gone to actually benefit the paying customers....."
"tech lab must stay."
"i support the tech lab"
"tech lab is only one of two forums sections i read, please leave it alone.regards,gil"
"thanks for putting this up lavista. it's surprising the focus is here, given what we discussed at the last csm/ccp meet.eve technology lab has to stay, it's spawned evemon, outpost alert!, loads of information sites, google tool .. eve almighty .. it wouldn't be half as almighty without that forum and the slew of spawned 3rd party tools. count on my vote for sunday's csm meeting."
"i'm shocked that they would remove the tech lab and not even offering an alternative.this would simply be a big blow to 3rd party eve application developement."
"yes! i want to be able to convert \"freed\" back into normal slaves too!!"
"m<U+FFFD>h if the gallentean hippy's get a 'free slave' button . i want an 'enslave' button . <U+FFFD>nd last but not least an eat the lifestock button. this keeps on bothering me . if i buy lifestock of the market i expect it to be possible to slaughter them and eat them .... note for support : .. only if there also is an enslave button :"
"supportedalso supported"
"support. i almost didn't read the thread though, because the title led me to believe that this belonged on the intergalactic summit forum. i propose to have it changed to \"add option to free slaves\"."
"i was thinking of a more complicated system for the freeing of slaves.each group from tourists to slaves should be 'freeable'. each would have a set of variables associated with them: likelihood of success, gratitude, and cost of setting free. a tourist wouldn't have much gratitude, but would have a higher rate of success, and would cost almost nothing to set free. a slave would have much gratitude, but would not have high rate of success, and would be expensive to set free. it should be possible, but not likely, that a freed slave ends up being a ceo of a top corp and gives you many iskies because they were highly appreciative.after setting the slaves free - maybe a week or two later, you receive an eve-mail from the \"livestock\" that burns me a bit too, saying what has happened to them and possibly including some iskies."
"i like this option of turning slaves to freed slaves, as well as the option to somehow \"disable\" drugs and turn them in, and turning exotic dancers and janitors into slaves, and so on.of course, once changed, changing something back should be impossible, or smuggling will run rampant."
"i recently raised a petition for salvage drones. after all, we have all sorts of other drones, it make no sense that you have to haul a big ship everywhere or tractor everything - the tractor beams and salvage mods take up valuable slots. also, having sds would mean you could salvage whilst you fight.i got the response below and am therefore doing as advised.\"hi,this sounds like a pretty good idea.i suggest that you post about the new idea for optimizing and improving the game in the features and ideas discussion section of our official forums.the dev team regularly reads it and takes feedback into consideration while working their hardest to improve the game.here is a direct link to the section:"
"just a minor point, posting gm correspondence isn't allowed on the forum.having said that, it's not a bad idea though i would personally prefer to see tug drones implemented ie drones that'll fly out to a wreck and pull the whole thing back to within 1500m of your ship from looting/salvaging purposes.they would need to be reasonably fast on the outbound trip being slowed down by the mass of whatever they're towing on the return trip. explanation for this would be that it needs to be a flying powerful engine in order to be able to move the mass of a wreck.so they'd probably return a frigate wreck at around the same rate as a standard tractor beam while a battleship wreck would take more time to pull in.of course, to pull in wrecks faster all you would need to do is dedicate multiple drones per wreck to offset the mass.the problem with salvaging at that range would be the size of cargo hold a drone would need in order to be able to salvage any wreck it gets to.tenative support therefore, i like the idea however it would need careful consideration as to drone volume/bandwidth/cargo hold size. it would also need to be done in such a way that these drones could only salvage/tractor a wreck that you, your corp or your fleet created."
"i've been wondering about this for a while - suspect it may be a little too close to 'easy mode' gaming though. +1 even so."
"this is a horrible idea. there should not be drones for everything. otherwise we will make drone ships capable of doing everything imaginable. tractoring and salvaging wrecks should take up a high slot that could otherwise be used on weapons."
"thanks. i didn't see a downside for anyone when i made this proposal, but it's still a little surprising there hasn't been some sort of dissent. pleasantly surprising, though.best regards,windjammer"
"any love for drones is good."
"i wouldn't support this idea even if ccp made it quicker to setup and tear down poses, as well as scan moons. currently there are about 2-4k moons in a region, and i recently scanned over 1300 of them in one of our regions. this took over 40 hours of nonstop scanning. this idea is horrible and you should stop posting."
"there are, location and number of moons."
"no"
"yes, let's continue to punish 0.0 alliances for being successful at holding valuable regions and vast amounts of stations. let's force them to preform tedious procedures in order to maintain themselves while the groups in empire do nothing but run level 4 missions in 1.0 security space with no risk.this movement would also directly influence you jade, as the reduced high end moon pool to draw from would result in inreased t2 costs and t2 margins. i don't appreciate your abuse of your position to further your wallet. moon mining, as it stands, is fine: what needs to be addressed is the break-down and distribution of the resources requiring moon materials. that says that instead of 1000 units of low ends and 500 of the high, you require 4000 of the low and 250 of the high, making the low more valuable and the high's less. this would be a far larger and more beneficial step for moon mining than any random distribution of moons which change from time to time. additionally, i would encourge that the high end moons be re-distributed. right now well over half of eves high ends are contained within three regions: and that's just bloody ******ed i speak, of course, of paragon soul, feythabolis and delve."
"i would remove the mining from the moons and introduce asteroids that can be mined not the roids found in belts btw. these asteroids are spawned random in eve and need to be probed to be found.the asteriod has a certain ammount of stuff that can be mined untill it is depleted and gone. the asteroid itself has also a timer it's on the move for role playing sake ;  so if the timer is up the roid is gone also wether all materials are mined or not.in order to mine the asteroid you have a special mining structure that can be launched once and is destroyed when the roid is gone. it is possible to get it back but it needs to be 'retrieved' while the roid is still there.i really think that moons should be only used for sov and not for mining. one problem though, the system i thought of will not triger wars more often but it does trigger a need for space because holding more space means getting higher chance that a roid will spawn inside the alliance space."
"maybe just dynamic moons within constellations? like 8/10,9/10,10/10 plexes."
"i think you're just looking for more ways to screw over the 0.0 alliances that you can't actually bully around like you do empire corps. this is just along the same vein as your destructible outposts suggestions."
"bluntly speaking, there is not a single aspect of this suggestion that is not absolutely terrible. sorry if it comes off as a troll, because it's not, but really, this is all just bad as bad can be when flying around in a mothership full of groon fighters.i think part of the problem is that much of the people here think that moon mining is some magical isk fountain where profit flows like rivers of honey. maybe one of the logistics people could give them an idea of the typical cost? just a suggestion.i'm all for redistribution of wealth, but to just randomly move the already spawned moons? this just shows how laughably unqualified you are, jade, as a csm and even more so as the head of such a group. if you want this to be taken even remotely seriously you should stop treating it like some... well, magical isk fountain."
"i love scanning moons. it's wonderful how it takes hours to find out what's in a system usually nothing valuable, and to collate this and work out where you can make money without going insane from the logistics. now i get to re-scan space, because jade would have moons move around at random. hooray!even more fun is anchoring poses. right click, anchor, wait 5 minutes, right click, online, wait 5 minutes, repeat for 40 modules. now i get to spend even more of my play time staring at a little bar counting down to 0. brilliant. this is just what i wanted to do to help keep my alliance afloat. this is a wonderful, well-thought out idea, from a sensible and not-at-all biased csm rep, who isn't acting in his own interest."
"it's a pain in the ass to set up a pos. we already hate pos's.wait until after \"starbase logistics is needlessly soul-destroying\" has been addressed before making moon minerals migrate around."
"this,with the current pos mechanics if moons functioned as jade proposes the prices of moon minerals and the subsequent materials and components would sky rocket as the time spent finding moons and deploying mining operations would rise exponentially."
"i propose letting goonswarm have 100% influence over what gets done in 0.0, because they obviously are the only one's who know anything about it and all of you other carebears should just leave well enough alone!"
"why not have moons run out of minerals and then eventually restock over time.much like a re-spawning asteroids.yeah i know.. random idea... but i'm curious as to the response.migrating moon minerals is a bit of a pain... especially from the programing aspect... the algorithms involved would blow your brains out. let's not make ccp's job any harder ^_^;;better yet.... lower the rate at which you gain income from them..and cause the balance to shift more in favor of mining rocks/ice... that would help a bit.i don't get why theres only \"1\" ore/type mined from any one moon/planet... why not have a combination of things and then be required to purchase specific modules of various qualities or require various skills to mine that specific type or types of ore.there are various strengths of asteroids right? why not have the same type.a planet/moon in reality would not have a single quality of ore or ice but many kinds of various yields.random thought at best i know. certainly better than migrating moons.... yuck."
"i agree with 1 2 4 5 and 8 but would like to add that i believe the mission sensitive items need to be locked so ppl cant fly in and steal them trashing your hard earned faction standings. because you cant finish the mission and have to fail it."
"a reasonable discussion of high sec level 4 risk/reward?i can give the idea in general a thumbs up...especially when compared to the other issue thread.i don't agree with every point...and don't really feel much change is needed, but i've got no problem with the subject being looked at, and adjusted if ccp feels it is necessary."
"issue:the only containers available that are large and cheap for us to sort all the junk in our hangars are station containers. unfortunately, they are all audit logged. they can't be deleted for a long time after use, and in the meantime they not only clog the database with their presence, they also contain huge logs. this may not affect the servers much, but it surely does them no good. at the same time, those of us that switch stations now and then, leave a trail of cans clogging our assets windows. i wouldn't be surprised if there's several million unused station containers in eve - and just as many in use - that don't need the security and logs.solution:give us a plain container. large. that's all. it's a very simple item to add, and probably won't take a dev more than 10 minutes to do - though seeding the sales on all stations will probably take a bit longer.item:name: insecure station containercapacity: like a station containervolume: like a station containermass: like a station containersecurity: none. no audit, no password, no logs, no nothing.simple, isn't it?"
"oh and, yay! i support this! wee!"
"lordy yes. station containers are a gargantuan ****-off at the moment, because they do aggravating things like locking all my items, or being untrashable. i understand why logged containers are nice in certain aspects, and why corp hangars really ought to use them, but for private use they're like officious bureaucrats living in your storage locker."
"supported...big time. i have a station container that i never used, but i set the password and now i can't reprocess it/sell it for 3 weeks! wtf?"
"put a password on it and you got my vote. minus the logbut yeah... either way... sounds good to me."
"supporting this thread because it's sarm."
"/sign"
"op's suggestion is as it always should have been"
"sarmaul.... i kinda love you right now.great ideas and minmatar nanopilot supported"
"simpler is usually better. at least give it a try on sisi. it certainly sounds like it's more likely to meet the criteria that 'guerilla warfare must remain viable' than what was on sisi last week."
"sign me up for a minmatar fleet set"
"supported!"
"supported indeed !"
"yeahhh that's so clean plastic models.my rl wallet will be bleeding for that"
"/signed"
"i want plastic kits with photoetched brassdetails and resin interiors.the sooner the better!"
"vindicator please"
"this!please ccp. :d"
"we need the option to filter friendly militia guys from our overview."
"yes, not to mention a way to remove neutral pilots while keeping wts."
"ohh yes, most useful"
"much needed .... yes please."
"i agree, much needed to give us more options to make the overview \"fw friendly\""
"the cross faction battleships are great especially the nightmare but we're lacking 2 major battleship crosses that would also be great ships, gallente/amarr and caldari/minmatar.i'm especially interested in the latter, i'm a caldari pilot it makes sense to crosstrain with minmatar as i can take advantage of my missile and shield skills but when i get the skills up there is no payoff with a cross faction battleship which is a real shame as i'd love to have a caldari/minmatar bs to aim for."
"toss in another amarr/caldari one while you're at it, so that every faction gets 4. i like this in principle, but the fluff really doesn't. finding another 2-3 factions to give ships to is not easy with as few combat-oriented npc factions as exist right now. also, i just want to see the two you listed getting +5% resists per level off the am/cal skill, and +7.5% rep per level off the min/gal skill. it's probably not sane, but it'd be funny."
"i hear that this is something that is in the works thukker, soe, ammatar, intaki syndicate ships etc..in development old chap, however it would be helpful if you suggest a good idea of what they could be like :p i.e. more than skillset required"
"it seems to easy for a group of individuals to warp into someones mission and take the completion items, then they attemp to ransom the items back. missioners can spend a long time building their faction standings and put a lot of effort into them just to have someone steal a \"damsel\" or such item. the hit we recieve towards are standing both faction and corp are heavy and in all honesty any loser can warp in and steal these items. i think we should have mission sensitive items only grabbable by the missioner, or theft resulting in a loss towards the theifs concord standing or the standing towards the missions corp, after all they are infringing upon that corp, why should the agent hate the guy that lost the mission, he should hate the guy that stole the item. anyways i think ccp should do something about this cause losing faction standing sucks cause it is hard to get back."
"most mission-sensitive items are dropped in wrecks. if i'm not mistaken, you have the right to kill people who loot your wreck. failing that, when you see someone enter your mission zone that you don't know, just warp out, and all the aggression will fall on them. a lot of thieves fly ships that can't handle that, especially with the massive cpu pinch of a scan probe launcher. also, worst-case, can't you just come back the next day once the mission has respawned, and do it again to grab the damsel again? it's never happened to me, but that should be possible from what i can tell. either that or just pay them off or accept the standings hit. you've been had, live with it. this really doesn't seem like an issue."
"pettition it. it used to be not allowed, dunno if thats still the case or not."
"not sure about this - mission completion occurs when you kill the main guy and cause the needed item to drop/spawn, not when you pick it up. there is the window of opportunity to steal it if a thief is in the right place at the right time.however... i am a dedicated mission runner myself, and any possible solution to this seems a little too carebear. there should always be some risk in eve - and one of the risks associated with running missions is that if you're unlucky your mission drop will be nicked, and you run the risk of having to displease your agent. as hershey says, if they pinch it, kill 'em it might not make it through the wreck, but 50% chance is better than none, not to mention the satisfaction ;"
"petitioning it doesnt work and you cant reset it thats what the gms say, and saying hey youve been had, i dont know when 1 frig warps in and theres 6 bses at the station waiting to gank you for firing on their buddy, eh, i honestly dont think it should be allowed"
"you have kill rights.. kill them! this is no different from then stealing loot."
"who cares if there's a dozen titans waiting at the station for you? he stole, so your corp gets kill rights on him. you shot him, so he gets kill rights on youto defend himself, but his corp does not get kill rights. let the battleships attack - it'll be absolutely hilarious to hear their crying in local when concord kills the lot of them."
"have not been boosted for years, however ships, hp, resists, and most other things have.as it stands a player can tank them in almost most ship classes so they useless tbh.is there a chance we could get these boosted ? or even looked at?"
"i find it humorous to the people who think this would make 0.0 space worthless.removal of insurance would make a couple things very apparent.the value of your ship is now much greater....you have to stop and consider whether your ego/pride is worth more than your ship.makes corporations weigh whether its cost effective to attack someone making it more of a challenge as opposed to just an another slug fest.war's don't have insurance.... thats what makes war..... nasty.course i don't like the prospect of losing a multi-million isk investment like an freighter or something... or a battlecruiser.would put an end to the morons who can think they can just go off and do whatever they want realizing they have to buy there ships back without any payouts.worthless? only if your griping about not having the ability to pvp 24/7.... make it much harder? yes... but not impossible... would be an intriguing challenge. hardly worthless... would make it more valuable even... as in your ship outlasting the challenges thrown at it.i'd miss the insurance... but at least it makes pvp fights and attacks much more accurate to the true value of what takes place.... like the fact you can't just replace your ship at the drop of a hat without paying even more money to achieve the same goal.a standoff suddenly becomes a question of whose a better \"steward\" of ones cash.sure it won't be pretty... but it would take a lot of the \"fun\" out of people who don't care about money anymore... most of us don't have that kind of money anyway... that gives them pause.. and i like that.: o /signed none and tweeking for different insurance methods for sure."
"the entire premise of this proposal is flawed.insurance is not there to be realistic in any way shape or form.it is there to take the bite off of ship loses.adding realism is not a factor when designing game mechanics.\"realism\" is used as a means to justify game mechanics after the fact.the developers didn't start with the idea \"hey, we should allow players to buy insurance for their ships, how should that insurance work?\"they started with the idea \"hey, we should give some isk back to a player when they lose there ships so they aren't totally screwed, now what \"realistic\" reason can we use to justify giving them that isk?\"try designing your idea with the game mechanic in mind, then try to make it \"realistic\" by adding fluff around it.your attempt to start with what is \"realistic\" and develop game mechanics from there will fail.please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i appreciate what you've said, and i agree. however, let us not ignore the state of the game - many people wanted a solution to capital ships online..i'm sure i'm not alone in hoping to one day see more combat taking place in smaller ships e.g. cruiser warfare and all...wouldn't you?i admit that this idea would perhaps give titans a bit too much of an edge, however...scagga"
"so why the garbage about making insurance more \"reaslistic\"?if you think that insurance payouts should be decreased to encourage people to fly smaller ships, then bloody well say so.that is a far more reasonable proposal. i am not sure if i support it or not, but atleast you would be stating a valid reason for changing insurance.with the goal clearly stated you might get some reasonable ideas on how to acheive that. you can worry about making it sound \"reaslistic\" later."
"bad idea.you will make pvp so incredibly costly .its realistic but it would not be good for the gameplay. lets fase it , the last thing we want is an insurence system like that irl . everyone hates that . thas why they made insurence in eve so win in the first place :."
"amen scagga. much better than removing it. i like."
"the 'garbage' indeed, what i put there was more of an afterthought. the feedback you gave led me to reconsider the idea, and that's what came out now for more feedback!"
"yes, it makes pvp more costly - especially if you're good at losing stuff often. everyone would feel the brunt of it - including myself. but let's think of the results, shall we? will it really be bad for gameplay? if the result is fewer cap-blobs and more small-ship warfare, perhaps it is?sometimes improvements are painful."
"your system favors those who lose ships less often.therefore, those who form up capital ship blobs to minimize their loses will receive better insurance coverage than those roaming small gangs who frequantly lose ships.you might want to rethink your entire mechanic given your stated objective is to encourage the use of small roaming gangs instead of large capital blobs."
"*scagga's 2-stroke 35bhp brain putts along merrily while it works out a possible solution to this uphill task...was that the wind changing direction? damn...*"
"i think the only way to make insurance truly realistic and effective, is to turn it over to the players. why not allow players/player corps to sell insurance coverage? yet another mini-profession created! and who knows what other mini-professions players will create around it?"
"well said! i look forward to seeing a new proposal."
"i got podkilled yesterday in a 0.8 system, while flying in a pod between to systems relocating ships.what i don't understand is, that i am not getting any kill rights against the other player. i've lost 80mil+ isk in implants, and i have no recourse on the bastard whatsoever.i petitioned it to ccp, but they say:\"besides there is no kill right issues for a pod kill as intended. i apologize for the inconvenience this has caused you and wish you a speedy recovery. \"thanks a bunch. how is this fair?"
"so you where suicide pod killed or did you agro the killer first?if someone upped and podded you for the pure pleasure of just killing you and they got concorded, then i would support this. but if you stole a heap of ore, and they attacked you in your pod then i would have to say.. i support ccp."
"nope, i was on autopilot between two systems, simply flying back to pick up another ship.i came back and found myself sitting in a clone vat, with all my +4 implants gone.the main thing is, this happened in a 0.8 system on route, and the route was entirely in high-sec."
"the issue is pretty simple here.a player shot at you, was probably concorded for doing so, and that should get you kill rights. it doesn't matter what you're in, if you lose your current transportation ship even a pod you should get kill rights.supported as long as you where not part of a war dec, faction wars, or had agro on someone."
"please do not post private correspondences with ccp staff on the forums. ~saint"
"and no, we are neither at war, nor had the other player kill rights or anything."
"my guess is that it's an intended feature."
"i find it dificult to give you support considering you where using autopilot.if you where not using autopilot you would have likely not been killed as warping to 0 meters to your gate of choice would allow you to quickly escape.i do have issue with the fact that you didn't get kill rights... i'd think you would considering what took place... but then you have yet to confirm if concord took said player out... after all it is high sec...and if you where autopiloting.... your likely to have been killed at a stargate..... and concord camps those frequently.....i'd say someone was either really stupid... or just really mad at you... but it goes back to the first rule i learned when i started playing this game.you don't autopilot unless your willing to risk your skin."
"this really isn't a proposal and does not belong in the assmebly hall portion of the forums.in the situation you describe, you get kill rights. examine the wording of your petition for flaws in the information it contains. if you find a flaw, repetition. if you find no flaw, file a petition against the gm who first responded. this will escalate the matter to a more senior member of the gm team for review.windjammer"
"i believe that i will go podhunting in a cheap ship thanks for the ideawindjammer"
"don't undock with implants you can't afford to lose?"
"i wish people would read. he's not ****ing and moaning that he got podded on autopilot ffs. he thinks he should get killrights on the aggressor and i don't see any reason why he shouldn't.supported."
"the reason i am posting this here is related to the response i got from the gm, which i am not allowed to quote it seems.the main point is, that the gm described this as an intended result meaning, me not getting kill rights after a pod kill. however, everyone i am telling this to, thinks this doesn't make sense and it mad.if this is indeed as intended by ccp, then this is something that needs to be changed. hence the reason i am turning to the csm."
"yeah, i'm down with more communication."
"time saving ftw, eh?"
"meh.nuclear weapons are overpowered aswell, its just one of the things thats meant to be there for a deterrent.dd scares enemy fleets from hanging around. people trying to survive a couple shots setup their ships for it. i think its fine as is. except maybe a couple dozen too many titans"
"i hear you got kicked :-"
"couple of ideas i posted elsewhere:turret batteriesthese fit only on a titan. they come in a few flavors:small weapon battery: holds 16 small guns or launchers.medium weapon battery: holds 8 medium guns or launcherslarge weapon battery: holds 4 large guns or launchersxl weapon battery: holds 2 xl guns or launchersthis would let you fit a titan to be a support killer, or a cap killer, and get it in the middle of the fight, instead of sitting behind a pos shield waiting to do its \"trick\".titan can't dd through its own shieldit changes the dd to a weapon that can only be used under fire, when the ship is taking some significant damage.what we want to do is get these ships into the fight, instead of having them be an extremely conservatively played \"one trick pony\". it was fine to have them played so conservatively when there were less than a hand full of them in game. by the time we get up to 50 or more of them roaming round they're going to become a problem and will ultimately have to be nerfed and that would be a shame. better to change them so that they get played agressively, and lost a little more often.down side to this, of course, is lag. it's bad enough to lose a carrier, dread, or mom to lag. losing titans to lag would redefine the meaning of \"sucks\"."
"no,because you included refining and trading as possible alternatives, you have essentially proposed the the ability to buy standings. it would be too easy for a \"rich and established\" player to create alts with high standings of every single faction he could dream of with your proposal."
"why shouldn't you be able to buy faction standing? not a troll, serious question as to why this particular concept would break the game."
"yeah good point. as it is the main purpose of standings is for cheaper brokers, better refining, and jump clones. if they had to buy standing they'd have to do a ton of trades until they'd saved enough on broker fees to make back the money they lost buying those standings."
"honestly the only way i would support any type of \"buying\" standing is by turning in faction tags to the navys.right now you get faction and corp standing by killing other pilots in faction wars. now the pilots don't drop tags, but the npc you kill in plexes do.. and if you have a good enough team, you can tank and kill the navy's in highsec.take those tags, go to the respected navy's of their enemy and turn the tags in for a very very very small corp/faction gain.this doesn't exactly benefit mission runners apart from any missions they have gained these tags in. most of which are somewhat rare from what i can tell.since you've already lost standing with the corp/faction when you \"killed\" the navy/faction npc. why not have the ability to turn in the tags for faction/corp standing with the other navy.seems like a logical choice to me."
"trading would not give enough of a standing gain for it to make it faster than missions, making it utterly pointless."
"that's only a good idea if you dramatically increase the tag supply."
"afaik, faction warfare only increases your faction standings when you are promoted, which requires you to capture/defend complexes or run missions.if killing other pilots gives you faction standings increases then i might need to sign some alts up for faction warfare.uh... if it is going to be utterly pointless, then why are you suggesting it?are your standings gains from refining equally pointless or exploitable?standings gains from ratting might be workable, but you will still have a hard time balancing them to be worthwhile but not over-powered: what size of standings gains are your proposing as reasonable for killing a battleship sized rat? maybe capping them in much the same way that security status gains are capped?"
"i said trying to farm it would be pointless in the face of missions. that is missionrunning would get your standings up faster."
"how do you figure?have you figured in the ease of completing a trade compared to completing a mission?please provide a sepecific example of this proposed standings increase for trading.likewise with refining: does this only apply to refining ore? or will you also get an increase for refining modules? how will the size of the standings increase be calculated?examples are needed to detirmine if your idea is exploitable or worthwhile.i am having a hard time seeing any room in between the two, as i expect the standings gains would be exploitable, long before they are worthwhile."
"the discussion of the nano nerfs have got me thinking about the other way small ships are supposed to evade damage from large ships: small signature radius. currently the turret/drone hit formulas take the traversal of the target as the primary hit determiner, with signature being a modifier on that. missiles are a bit more divorced than turrets and drones, but they still favor heavily speed over signature radius.what if the role of signature and traversal/speed were reversed in these formulas?off the top of my head, this gets us:mwds remain effective for engaging and disengaging quickly, but are no longer a good tank due to the signature penalty.afterburners become the 'speed tanking' module as they allow you to increase traversal without screwing your primary tanking attribute still not sure people will fit them.small ships get new life against larger ships since you can't web them down and obliterate them or shoot them from range.smaller bore guns and ships like destroyers get a bump in effectiveness for dealing with like-sized targets.the currently underused 'undersized' guns could be made to have a weapon signature and use the ammo type of the lower gun class i.e. dual 250mm railguns would fire medium hybrid ammo, but at a higher rof.ships and weapons become a bit easier to balance because their tanks and effectiveness against tanks are more predictable.target painters useful? lol."
"no. small signature radius should not make small, -cheap- ships hard to kill. sig radius already is a huge boost to survivability, and the speed that small ships have which will be more pronounced after the nanonerf will keep them viable. small ships shouldn't tank like battleships, period, even if it's done by sig radius rather than hitpoints, it's the same effect. small ships will rely on speed, which will be easier after the web nerf.oh, and target painters already are useful and will become more useful after the nanonerf. the sig radius increase was never trivial, it's just that you went so god damn fast that it didn't matter. sig radius increase has a pretty huge effect and tps are very useful."
"what are you talking about.as a multiplier, changes to signature radius are exactly inverse of transversal.multiplying signature radius by 2 currently has the same effect on turrets as dividing speed by 2.the difference is that there are modules that will increase/decrease speed by huge amounts. the modules that effect signature radius are much smaller.are you suggesting that when the magnitude of speed mods is decreased to prevent ludicrous speeds, that they should boost the modifiers for signature radius?"
"this is actually an idea worth looking at closer. even if 2x speed is the same as halving signature radius, it's easy to get 10x speed boosts out of microwarpdrives. it's near impossible to cut your signature radius. the only thing which really has a significant effect on signature radius is a microwarpdrive.perhaps allowing afterburners to combine with some method of dramatically reducing signature radius could allow speed tanks to exist without requiring the ridiculous speeds it currently requires..."
"sigh. speed is already getting nerfed. that's the whole point of the nanonerf, to stop ships from going so fast that nothing else matters. as for tps: again, already useful. they function like tracking computers for everyone shooting at a given target."
"have you compared the net effect on tracking for a mwd and an afterburner?mwd 10x speed, 5x signature radius = 2.0x tracking diffucultyab 2.5x speed, 1x signature radius = 2.5x tracking diffucultyafterburners are already more effective at making you harder to track. the problem is that they are 1/4 as effective at getting you into range."
"small ships have speed advantage even after nerf, all the overeaction is a no brainer plus tracking against bigger ships. as someone above said, you don't need invulnerability. with web nerf bigger ships won't be able to web you and hence track you better.i know missiles are different, but ccp is still looking over that."
"mwd is closer to 5-6x speed, isn't it? unless you have a lot of mass-reduction, in case abs will be more than 2.5x speed."
"you're dumb. target painters are all but entirely worthless. your belief otherwise shows your ignorance of the issue.one of the biggest problems with the nano nerf is how many of the fast ships rely on speed for their tank. to make it work encourages the ridiculously fast ships that the nerf is targeting. the signature radius change he's talking about doesn't let a ship sit at a dead stop and absorb damage just by being small, it reduces the speed needed to speed-tank. it means that a 2km/s ab inty could dodge fire like an 8km/s inty. give ships the same ability to avoid damage, but at lower speeds, making tackling easier without completely screwing ships which rely on speed to not die.can you fill me in on the math involved for this? in my experience, the mwd is far more effective for avoiding fire in situations where an ab would mean instant death. i could be wrong about the reality.or maybe it's just missiles needing to be changed to follow similar rules.see my previous point. when you start stacking cheap implants, gang bonuses, rigs, etc, 10x is a moderate figure. going beyond that is not difficult."
"i was intentionally being conservitive in my presentation of that fact.yes, ab's typically give a larger boost to speed and mwd's give a smaller boost to speed than i cited in my example.i did that so that if anyone doubted that ab's had a greater net effect on tracking than mwd's, an attempt to use more realist numbers would show that ab's were more in fact even effective than i already claimed them to be.the point remains, mwd's are favored because of the absolute increase in speed, not because they are more effective at reducing tracking."
"the math for this is right here. notice how speed and signature radius factors are multiplied together. that means that multiplying one has the same as multiplying the other. a 5x increase in signature radius exactly cancels a 5x increase in speed.because of the signature radius penalty, a mwd setup would need to go 6.0x - 6.5x faster than a similar ab setup to have a greater impact on tracking. mwd's are faster than ab's, but not that much faster.the reason that ab's don't work is that you are normally dead before they get you close enough to be effective.if you start out close, the ab will make you harder to track than a mwd will."
"that is definately a factor.to avoid missiles, you need to get above a specific speed. that speed is independant of your signature radius or your distance from the person shooting at you. it is only dependant on the attributes of the missile.with turrets, the speed that you need depends on the distance you are from the person shooting at you and on your signature radius, in addition to the attributes of the turret.mwd can push you beyond the explosion velocity of a missile, an ab cannot."
"what i'm suggesting is that the tracking formula be weighted to favor signature over speed. this allows players to play the tactical game with mwds, but at the same time make them less wonderful as a tank.this is true, but what i'm getting at is that speed serves two purposes: a it allows you to engage and disengage and is absolutely required to make use of short ranged weapons and b it allows you to tank. what i'm suggesting is fiddling with the math so that speed retains a, but loses some of b.no, i was suggesting an alternative nanonerf. this set of 'nerfs' allows ships to retain the ability to disengage, but fitting a ship for that ability doesn't also give you an awesome tank as well."
"so give mwd's a >10x multipler to signature radius instead of a 6x multipler, so that activating a mwd will actually make you easier to track than leaving it off? basicly have it so that a frigate with a mwd on is like shooting at a cruiser moving the speed that frigate was moving before he turned on his mwd. sure he is immune to missiles/drones, but you will plaster him with your turrets. that could be an interesting alternative to having the mwd deactivated by scrams.or are you suggesting that we do something like square the signature radius/signature resolution term in the tracking formula, making it impactical to hit with larger guns and unlikely to miss with smaller ones?that would be yet another huge boost to missile boot pve, as turrets would be even further removed as being viable for missions."
"i wasn't thinking anything quite so radical as adding an exponent. i'd think a tunable constant parameter would do the trick. though if you were inclined, a sigmoid function could be interesting.how to tune the constant or select the function is obviously going to depend on what your world view is. how fast do you think battleship-class weapons should kill a frigate? how about cruiser-class weapons? are you happy with the number of cruisers you're seeing in fleet situations? etc."
"the problem is the only constant that you have to work with is the exponent.remember: multiplying signature radius by anything, including a constant, is the same as dividing speed by that same value.you need not increase the exponent from 1 to 2, a factional exponent might work, but if you want to persue that path, you will probably need to provide a suggested value, as i doubt you will get enough buy in on the idea to get someone else to do it for you."
"one other thing one could do is divorce the the signature term from the tracking portion of the hit equation. the idea being that, even with 0 traversal, it's tough to hit a small target with a big gun. so, you get more benefit from speed up close, but your signature provides a certain level of protection whatever range you happen to be at."
"how do you propose that we divorce signature term from the tracking portion of the hit equation?how do you suggest that we get a tough chance to hit against a smaller stationary target, without also nerf'ing the possiblity of getting reliable hits on stationary targets of similar size to your turrets?how specificly would you change the tracking equation?"
"er.can i recommend that you go and review how tracking works again. signature radius vs. resolution is a direct multiplier on turret tracking."
"how smart culd your idea be if your dumb enough to post it on you're goon main? have you figured out that the csm and this forum are not for goons yet? non csm member who actualy reds this forum will even look at this idea after they see where op is from. countdown til it get silently moved to another forum.edit for speling."
"i'm not sure what he's getting at, as there's already a penalty for shooting at someone smaller with larger guns. it's the radii of the ammo vs. ship signature, same as what happens with missiles.the only thing i can figure is that he wants a chance to miss if both ships are stationary, which doesn't make any sense to me unless we're in a solar wind storm."
"the point is that speed matters more than sig radius for various reasons. if you increase the importance of sig radius, and decrease the importance of speed, you can reduce overall speeds and the problems it causes without hurting speed tanks. given the way it makes webbing easier, you could make speed tanks stronger without causing problems.actually that may be a fix in and of itself...greatly improve the ab/low sig radius tanking ability, while making sig radius more important so that mwds actually increase the damage you make. give people a reason to use afterburners without nerfing mwds directly. you could then create a situation where smaller ships with mwds web the afterburner ships. but where afterburner ships become vastly better than they are now.as was pointed out, an mwd = 2.0x where an ab = 2.5x. what if an ab were 5x or more? it could create a situation where small mwd ships become more important, where webs are something more than \"stop them from getting to the gate\", and generally adds to the concept of having good tactics in one situation that can be countered quite easily."
"by this are you suggesting that ab's be boosted to provide a larger bonus to speed, perhaps in line with an effective 400% increase after skills and mass reduction mods? or did you have something else in mind?mwd's are in need of a nerf because of their ability to grant near invulnerablity on extreme setups that have become compartively common because of that invulnerablity. while boosting ab might increase their popularity, it will not solve this problem with mwd's."
"i checked the index already and didn't find any mention of this.ccp please add a skill book for advanced starbase defense management so as to allow control of more pos guns/webs/jammers goodness.obviously it would prerequisite with lv5 of the already hugely popular starbase defense management skill book and would perhaps be a rank 8 or higher skill.also, why you're at it, what would be the harm in providing some specialty skills that could allow better lock times or more damage with guns or better jamming of said pos defenses. perhaps faction specific skills for use on faction towers with faction modules; i.e. dread guristas starbase jammer calibration... or better yet domination starbase artillery specialization...oh and put all these yummy new pos gunnery/management skills in their own skill category already. take them out of the corp management category.thank you csm and ccp!anyone hate pos warfare? lmao dream on, eh?"
"supported :"
"no new skills, please... *ugh*simply make the existing skill work with groups of arrays rather than one at a time.merely enable the pos manager to define anchored structures into arrays of up to 'skill lvl #' items.example, with lvl 5 you can select 3 guns, a web, a scram, and define it as series a. then another 3 guns/web/scram and define it as series b, with series c being 5 missile launchers... ect. then when it comes to defending the pos the defender selects a series and defines a target."
"pos defense should be the domain of at least a small group of players, not a solo job.one player being able to man all of the pos guns in an attack allows a single player to do the entire defense, and to potentially insta-pop hostile ships without giving them any chance to react."
"i'm ok with removing non-meta loot, but named loot should stay."
"not really. if we keep meta-modules as drops, it really won't too much."
"could i clarify, how do you expect high end minerals to be acquired in high sec if all t1 meta loot is no longer a feature of npc loot?i understand people can acquire them via the means of finding hidden belts even then surely not adequately.or is it that you expect all high end minerals to come from low/null sec?"
"i support this 100% for one simple reason...i firmly believe anything that has a bpo should not be in the drop table. i don't care about meta items being in the drop, let them stay."
"its inflationary.the minerals from loot drops tend to balance out the increase in the money supply that results from bounties and mission rewards. if you remove this \"materials faucet\" you'll have to replace it with another one, or intoduce an offsetting \"isk drain\" or materials prices will rise because money is entering more quickly relative to the rate at which materials are coming in.saying that it will help noobish manufacturers assumes that you won't have scads of them out there building stuff with mins they mined themselves and treating the mins as if they were \"free\". my prediction is that you'd still see the price of most t1 meta 0 modules pegged pretty close to their \"melt\" value. as someone else above said, about all this will do other than potentially causing inflation is nerf the income of resellers who serve as collection channels for dropped loot from new who don't know any better than to sell into the buy order at the nearest station, and don't even check the min value of what they're selling."
"one the issue of macro farming:totally /signed. i refuse to believe the *absurd* drop in mineral prices is due to players mining. i think it's large scale industrial macro mining that's causing it - and it's eroding the market for legitimate players.i remember being able to make at least a decent living on mining - now... no. the prices are way too low.personally, id like to see some kind of efforts to detect macro miners, and ban them in droves. kick them out, over and over, until it's no longer profitable.when i jump into a belt and see ships mining as a team, not responding to anything, but mining, all the time, day and night, in hulks, with the player names:sdfkasfkghersdflqqfkgefgvfkgeqfdlhkefsdklhcvxlku...call me crazy, but i suspect this is not only a macro mining operation, but one that's been left alone for a very long time. long enough to learn how to handle hulks. something needs to be done... really."
"no cockpits and no crackheads either...edit: ohhhhhh... look at that, you can now say crack."
"let us paint our ships pink!!!and with hello kitty on the side plz!"
"as a few posts have stated, and as detailed in the \"camera drones\" chronicle, you are immersed in your sensory-deprived pod when piloting your ship. the view you have is from your camera drones.why do you think the screen goes black while you undock/dock temporary interruption of transmission, and why you don't actually \"see\" yourself jumping when you use a stargate? interference. obviously the interference is not as bad when warping, as you camera drones still work then.nice idea, but there aren't actually any co... those places, in eve to have a view from.ab"
"removed. navigator"
"kiddies:fighters have c*o*c*kpitsbiger ships have flight decksnow for the op...why would i want to look a geen goo? your in a pod with a tube shoved up your every hole in body...and maybe a couple of extra....."
"given that even frigates are dozens of meters long up to battleships, which are hundreds of meters long, you're not looking at cockpits anyway, you're thinking of a bridge, and it's still wrong."
"the fact ccp have said we'll be walking gives us a right have a c-pit as well. if not then i demand when you leave your ship to walk on the station you are coved with goo that drips off you for five minutes"
"goo and cockpits this gets my vote"
"i like it but i fear the lag actually this could make sentry drones more popular. because you know that's what people would use over many other drones unless fighters where also included.even if it was just player controlled drones like station guns. a player with a new skilled called it \"station drone operation\" goes to the pos, interfaces with the pos and takes control of the drones.give him a max of 250mbits/s or 10 drones, but he can fly whatever drones he wants, if he wants 10 light drones go ahead. drone bay would have to be 2000m3 however, large enough to have multiple done types etc.this also adds an element of support from the pos. something to which the poses don't currently have. imagine 10 heavy shield or armor maintenance bots repping the friendly fleet.it would still take a pilot at the pos controlling the drones. i think with the dynamic power of a drone bay and 10 drones of your choosing would the drone mod would have to eat a lot of cpu."
"pos fights lag bad enough without adding more drones to the mess. bad idea."
"thanks jade.also ccp, there are certainly more people that would love another alliance championships than this thread got suport."
"i have been wanting to raise this exact issue for a while now. so i fully support.but then again. if it has come to the point where csm has to be used for answering trivial issues like that, where the hell are we then? it's sad."
"i completly understand your point of view. this question was asked on the alliance championship forum quite some time ago and never got answered. the same question was asked in regards to the forum changes. no answer yet. unfortunately sometime ccp seems to choose the \"lalala if i ignore them long enough they might go away\" option instead of a clear yes/no and facing the reaction. which is indeed sad. i can even understand them from time to time. dealing with customers/players can be difficult and scary. doing so via the internet isnt going to make it a lot easier. at the end of the day though this form of non-communication will only make it worse.i can also understand that with the wealth of issues raised on this forum and the workload the members of the csm are taking upon themself in their spare time  and i think the csm is doing a good job, so thank you guys this issue could be easily considered trivial. personally i believe its not. the amount of actively involved players and people watching it was crazy. it also hugely helps to create a sense of community as the whole cluster is sharing the same events."
"*push*"
"the goon agenda, 'ok guys, this is how we break bob, they have all these tech ii bpos worth billions, lets storm the forums and whine till they're gone and we can all grind like it's lineage ii'.tech ii bpos is no longer a problem, your alliance monopolizing high end moons are."
"okay."
"look how stupid you are. i mean it, just stop, crank up the font size, and look how stupid you are."
"another \"cry\" thread about t2 bpos, yes this what the game needs.... if you don't who owns them now, buy them from those players, otherwise invent."
"let me see if i can goon it up right...ehrm hm. no u!"
"supporting this in spite."
"we had this discussion numerous times during the election campaign. nobody has yet to actually put up any good reasons as for why to do that, leave alone justifying how it's worth taking ingame assets away as heavy-handed, as this is. people invested large sums of isk into this. making them finite would be upsetting to them.i don't have a t2 bpo. they aren't isk printers either. so nice try already."
"here's to hoping you apply the same logic when asked whether it's worth randomly taking away the high-value moons that alliances have scanned out, fought for, towered, and set up logistics chains to mine. the parallels between the two issues are very strong."
"since you have been here for a whole year, you of course must know what you speak of. of course you should have equal access to everything. so what if it took years to acquire or tens of billions of isk. you pay your money to ccp and you deserve it now, for no effort or isk. if you don't get it? stamp your little bee foot and make eve understand how entitled you truly are.there, there, little bee. don't try to buzz so loudly. ccp will give you everything you desire. just explain it to them as you have to me. you've certainly straightened me out.windjammer"
"didn't you get the memo? it's now officially okay to take things away from goonswarm. next we'll have to start work on limiting the size of alliances. you guys are just too big.windjammer"
"i do.there's a large difference between moons and blueprints. but what is the point? this is not about moons. i will happily discuss that in another thread."
"no really, i want you to stop for a second, and actually read what you wrote.just think about that for a second.that \"monopoly\" was fought for. internet spaceships were blown up to wrench those moons from the cold, dead hands of their previous owners. also, who cares about bob's assets, this is clearly a satire proposal, something you were too vapid to notice from the get go.thus:look at how stupid you are."
"why was this moved to general discussion?"
"in my opinion it would be sensible to remove t2 bpo's as they are relict from the 'old times'. however outright removal would be somewhat unfair against people who have invested a lot of resoures to acuire them.one of the solutions i see would be propability based 'declining' of bpo per run produced. say - taking 'damage' like t2 laser crystals until it's destroyed eventually. say ... balanced for approx a year of continious production. or just converting them into bpc's with enough runs for year of production."
"are you seriously saying that 1 billion a month made in complete safety and with almost no work not an isk printing machine?"
"2 proposals:1. now that we have auctions, there should just be daily t2 bpo auctions by npc corporations so that existing t2 bpos will be devalued over time.+ slowly diminishing value of t2 bpos+ t2 bpo distribution fairness+ good isk sink- bad for invention2. t2 bpos should be worse than invented bpcs for example, they should get set to me -10 or so and research not possible, or at least invented bpcs should have a realistic chance to be better than any/all t2 bpos+ small change+ good nerf to t2 bpos- there's still stuff in the game that you can't get anymore"
"no, the lottery was bad enough, and most people never got anything, some people got more than 1, rather not have that crap again.just remove t2 bpos altogether and make invention the only way to get t2 ships"
"the forums ate my last post not that anyone will miss it, but the point was that there are benefits and drawbacks to t2 bpos. assuming that there's a lot of advance warning, i wouldn't mind if they were all deleted. i do invention and don't own any t2 bpos, so i'm not completely biased, but i think everyone's biased here."
"oh is it this time of the week again? *yawn*"
"i am suggesting that if someone is making 1 billion a month on a 30 billion or 60 billion investemnt, even if they sit on their toilet, is ok. most t2 bpos have been bought out from the \"lucky\" winner of the lotto, and are now in the hands of the people who earned the isk, one way or another, to buy them."
"t2 bpo is as anoying as when tti had the t5 mining laser. that they bought from someone else"
"your calculations are also wrong. ishtar bpo would yield some 1.5-2b a month atleast with minimum 50million profit per ship. astarte would be alot higher."
"my calculations are based on producing all of the above for over 2 years with overall market fluctuations in mind. just because this month it is little more profitable, does not mean that the next month the same will occur, it usually does not. with moon mineral price fluctuations the profits fluctuate as well. what i described was averages, and no, i certainly do not mind someone who invests 60 billion isk into astarte bpo to make 1.6-2 bill a month...."
"except most people haven't invested \"30 billion isk\" in their t2 bpos. those who did, well, investment carries risk and expecting years of continuous isk printing is nothing more than hubris.edit: why was this thread moved into general discussion?"
"i think that the holders of t2 bpos can't possibly control the market on what you call the \"good\" items. they are too popular, and the volumes are too high. if all of the holders of the bpos colluded unlikely they still couldn't set the price of these items so low that they were impossible to make a profit on for inventors, thus maintaining their monopoly, because they cannot supply 100% of the demand. there isn't really a way for them to cartel and keep the price of these items high, either, because if they tried, the item would just get more attractive to invent.on the \"not so good\" t2 bpos, nobody really cares. they aren't attractive to invent anyway because they aren't popular, and even the bpo holder probably makes jack on them.short version: there isn't a problem here that needs solving. invention is working just fine.what could be really cool, though, is to provide a tiny really tiny chance that an invention job could result in a bpo. by tiny i mean it would happen a small number of times a year game-wide. this would give those who invent an item regularly some chance to eventually get a bpo for one. that would pretty much limit it to serious t2 inventor/producers and exclude those running bunches of research alts hoping to strike it rich.the very long term net effect of his would be what you're asking for. the bpos would gradually be devalued because they would slowly become more common, and invention on that item would eventually stop unless demand continued to rise because production would have shifted to bpos.this would be really cool for those who have invested time and isk setting themselves up as inventor/producers, but game wise, it would only make sense if ccp planned to regularly introduce new items that would then be produced only by invention for a while, and then likewise slowly shift to production from bpos."
"ok, who let the goons out of caod? furthermore what goon dev moved this crap from assembly hall here?"
"it's all part of their master plan to ruin everyone else's game play and make them cry, bud. that's why they play the game you know. didn't you get the memo?"
"goon alt detected."
"lock and delete! from my cold dead hands! *clutches eagle bpo hard*i actually sold one this month."
"nah. my main is someone you never heard of in a corp you never heard of. and, i'd like to keep it that way."
"the vast majority of t2 bpo revenue was captured before the invention patch. now all you're getting by using t2 bpos is basically invention costs and then some. anyone can buy a t2 bpo...i'm sure if you made an offer people couldn't refuse sellers would be lining up. t2 bpos have already been heavily devalued. remember how cerbs dropped from like2 250mil to 80mil? yeah...all lost profit margin.if you can't afford to buy one, that's your fault, not the t2 bpo holders' faults."
"quite a bit of those profits got transferred to moon-holders, since rare moon mins are now the limiting factor in production and the only point in the value chain that is vulnerable to manipulation and cartelling. i guess that's better in a sense, at least you can fight over a moon.there was a time when many of the big alliances didn't even bother with t2 chains. there wasn't any money in it unless you had the bpos."
"i've looked at this thread and it's pretty much a gd thread: \"you whined about me so now i'm gonna whine about you.\"if this is what the csm forum is like then i think a spanish proverb is in order: \"aunque la mona se vista de seda, mona se queda.\" essentially, \"a monkey in a silk dress is still a monkey.\""
"cute. one problem with your indirect whine at us is the small issue that star fraction as an entity owns exactly zero t2 bpos. have a nice day though."
"why not make it such that t2 production can only be done at a pos, and the that the blueprint has to actually be at the pos. this would bring it more inline with the risk reward ratio of everything else."
"i like how this thread always follow the pattern of nerf t2 bpos instead of make invention better.but then again, this time we are talking goons, anything that can hurt even the slightest the other players it's great for them."
"i have nothing to say. neither does the op.the universe is in balance......."
"is it this time of a month already?btw: speed nerf is not in yet - you can go back whining about it"
"invention has already overtaken t2 bpo's as most seeded on market, there is no issue at hand and t2 bpo's also change hands a lot which is good as it moves isk around."
"which means invention has developed far enough that ccp can finalize the shift from lottery to invention by removing any remaining bpos."
"i kind of agree with this, but i think that those that have bpo's already should get to keep them - i don't agree with how the old system distributed them but i don't think those players should get humped by the changes. i'd like to see t2 bpc's making their way to the average player like me! who basically has no chance of otherwise ever getting hold of one"
"t2 bpo's should either be removed from the game or else there needs to still be a way for those not around for the \"lottery\" or lucky enough to have a dev in their alliance give them a bunch to obtain them.period.it's **** poor game design to have unobtainable but still extremely valuable and important to the game economy items in the game.either re introduce t2 bpo's say as a rare result of invention or convert them all to bpc's and use the invention system as the exclusive method of producing t2 bpc's."
"i own four minor t2 bposi'm not against an eventual change, but any such change would need to be announced at least a full year in advance, better yet, 2 full years.this is because some folks not me paid massive amounts of isk for their t2 bpos.if it was announced that ccp is planning, in two years time, to make remove, or change, t2 bpos, such bpos would still have a lot of value and earning potential, but such value would shrink as time passed, and any new buyers would base the amount they payed on the approaching date."
"um... that's great, except that it's totally insane.who the hell is going to buy a -10 bpo? you do understand that it would amount to a license to lose money forever, right? i guess it would provide some amusement value watching nubs buy something completely worthless becasue its a \"t2 bpo\". if more bpos were seeded and i'm not saying they should be they should, as i said above, be the very rare result of invention jobs. that way, they would go to those who are specialized on and active in that part of the game. as more bpos gradually entered the game, they'd be traded more frequently and eventually be expensive, but obtainable for anyone who wanted to specialize in producing that item, in line with the cost of capital bpos today.ccp should really only consider it if they'd like to use invention as a way of producing newly introduced items and gradully transition them to bpo based production as the market for them matures. given that they don't introduce new items that often, though, it might not make any sense. invention as a profession would die out."
"t2 production from bpos is easier and cheaper because of the me difference between invention bpcs and a researched bpo. it not only reduces mineral cost, but it also reduces time, so your profit per day per manufacturing slot is high though, remember, an inventor can just make another alt and get 10 more slots, a t2 bpo is only in one slot. if you want to reduce the impact that t2 bpos have on the market and reduce profits for t2 bpo holders then simply improve the me that you get from decryptors and increase the drop rate of decryptors. i hold 6 t2 ammo bpos that i bought, and the profit per day on them is so low now that they are not worth making. my manufacturing slots are better used on more lucrative goods.any reduction in costs of t2 production will increase the demand for moon minerals, and push more isk towards the holders of those moons."
"yeah, the minimum margin the average producer is willing to accept isn't going to change much, and the moon mins are already the limiting factor. if prices started to fall because of decreased production costs demand would rise and the mins would get even more scarce. you'd hit price equliibrium again, but with the min sellers getting a proportionatly larger slice of the pie.maybe that's what ccp intended all along. make the really valuable resource something out there in space that you have to fight for and defend, instead of a bpo that someone can hide away in their empire hanger."
"no work?no risk?that can be only considered trolling.have you ever tried to build a t2 ship? no? then shut up and get a clue first. and if you have, then you know that quite a lot of work is involved.no risk? and you think that the materials just drop from nowhere into your hangar and the ships are sold instantly where they are built? i see quite often freighters full of t2 ships blown up, suicide ganks, you know?so it is neither work free, nor risk free.besides, as already mentioned - if you want cheap t2 ships go and invent them. there is no way those t2 bpo holders can compete with invention. while i might have a profitable t2 bpo it is only one at a time. while i can make as many inventions and build jobs with alts etc as i want and thus multiplying my profits more and more. with some alts i can easily produce 10 or 15 times more ships than a bpo holder - so what? he might produce cheap, but i get the bulk deals.i can't see any problems with t2 ship bpo's. especially when the demand for t2 ships is high those bpo's have not really a noticable impact on the market.and no, i dont own a t2 ship bpo."
"i could have sworn i heard something about 'invention', i hear it's a solution to the t2 bpo problem, and means that even the best t2 bpos now take around 4-10 years to earn back their face value."
"i do t2 ship production, like you, from invention. it's either time intensive mining some of your own stuff, or very capital intensive buying everything. if you have a big bankroll, it's probably the most isk/hour played in the game for an individual.i don't find it to be particularly risky. i've never been the target of a suicide, but then again, i don't and wouldn't haul a freighter full of golems. a few at a time is all i'm willing to risk. which probably puts my risk profile in line with doing l4 missions in an expensively fit ship.if you don't have a lot of capital to begin with, it's not the license to print money that everyone thinks it is. if you're under-capitalized, you can probably only produce one ship at a time, and then only infrequently. if you do have a lot of capital, you've probably been in the game a long time and have earned the position you now enjoy. of course, that doesn't stop others from envying that position and thinking it's unfair that you have it, but them's the breaks."
"i would like to see all t2 bpos expire 2 years from today."
"i think things as they are now in the t2 world are balanced out just fine.before t2 invention a select few had the isk to aquire t2 bpo's, some got them from dev's but that's another story altogether.the point is that billions of isk were spend by some lucky individuals, corporations and factions to get their hands on these isk making bp's and they promptly abused that monopoly by asking rediculous prizes for every ship they churned out of the factories.hulks for instance were usually close to a billion isk.then invention came along and hurt the wallets of the t2 bpo owners tremendously, and i think this is a good thing after their price-gauging.nowadays every month old character flies around with t2 modules which used to be affordable only to the filthy rich in the eve community.the point is that all the people owning a t2 bpo spend billions of isk aquiring and then lots of time researching them.ccp has reached out to both t2 bpo owners and the rest of eve by keeping bpo's valuable due to the possibility to research them for good material efficiencies and making t2 items more affordable and available through invention, which makes bpc's only with crappy material efficiencies.i like this balance and it certainly was a great solution to fix a big problem.you can't just take away all the bpo's from individuals, corporations and factions after they've spend billions of iskies on them.let it be.edit: and nope... i don't have a single t2 bpo"
"first and foremost, i got through most of the second page of this thread, so this could have been suggested already. if so, i suck. now on to the topic...as i see the problem, people are saying effectively\"people who have t2 bpos have, in the past, had a huge financial advantage. they continue to have an advantage because the bpos have been researched and have a significantly lower manufacture cost than invented bpos\"so how about implementing a degradation period for t2 bpos? for every <insert time interval here>, the bpos lose a point of me and pe. it'd have to be a nice timeframe, maybe once a quarter. when that happens, the bpo can either be pulled from production for a short period of time to be re-researched or it can continue to be used, albeit at reduced efficiency.at the same time, slightly improve the base me and pe of invented bpos. between the 2, it should allow the t2 bpos to remain more profitable than invented bpos, but it decreases the profit disparity and requires a little more effort on the part of the bpo owner. another option is to use the same degradation idea but flag the bpos as unresearchable and they disappear once me and pe both get negative. and, if this is implemented, there is a decent grace period 6 months? prior to this, allowing any bpo owners to research the bpos as much as possible, effectively improving the length of time they'll have to use the bposrandom crazy thoughts. it they suck, oh well.edit:ramificationst2 construction materials and everything used to create them will likely decrease in price somewhat, due to decreased costs. potential for trivial fluctuations in pos fuel costs due to the potential to altered pos fuel requirements stemming from the occasional need to re-do research on bpos.short term increase in profit margins followed by lower cpm cost per mod as the market forces re-adjust the prices to accomodate a reduced production cost. one would suspect that the profit margins would be similar percentage wise to the present situation. people i can see negatively affected: those owning moon mining poss for direct resale could have their profits reduced slightly.persons whom complete the entire invention process from moon mins through reactions and such to invention and production could be adversely affected if the reduced sale prices are not equivalent to the boost in production efficiency of t2 bpcs. people owning t2 bpos will have their profit decrease slightly owing to either re-research or reduced efficiency needs.if i missed anything obvious, please feel free to correct me."
"so what you are saying is that:a no datacore costsb no meta item costsc no interface costsd no copy slot costse no invention slot costsf able to me and pe researchmeans you don't make more isk per production run than someone who invents?you're correct about volume though."
"a t2 bpo holder can make more isk / manufacturing slot hour on that item than i can. he can only occupy one slot with that item. for me, the question is whether i can make more / slot hour making the item than i can making some other item. if i can, i build it. if i can't, i don't. whether he can make more from that one slot making that one item than i can doesn't matter to me."
"no way to remove these bpo's without leaving the owners - who probably bought it - with a giant hole in their wallet; the part they invested in the actual bpo. if ccp would resort to this, they would infact be moderating the market they have so strived to keep solely playerbased, aside from starbase accessories/fuel and skillbooks."
"you can make more money selling 100% markup cruisers, you just have to put them in the right stations"
"any change to t2 bpos needs to be announced a year or two in advance."
"poorly thought out and pointless idea.making invented bpcs researchable would solve pretty much all of the whinage. if people wanted to spend the time bringing their bpc down to 10 me/pe a process that takes the same amount of time as doing so with a bpo, not longer, then they can balance out the profit margin by reducing their waste.t2 bpo owners will still have a degree of profit in that they don't need to waste/buy datacores to produce a few runs."
"spam!skunk"
"i'd have to see the math on that. researching up a bpc sounds like a bad proposition to me compared to using the same research slot to research up any bpo that produced a similar profit / slot hour. it might make sense for someone who is trying to build their own golem on the cheap and doesn't mind waiting for it, but for someone doing it as a business it probably doesn't make much sense, though, like i said, i could be wrong. i haven't \"done the math\"."
"simple solution, institute a buyback policy and forcefully repurchase the bpo's for fair compensation. the issue is that this 'feature' no longer exists. either ccp will have to keep diluting it with invention improvements or otherwise balance the situation and at least this would be a mechanism that would compensate the players."
"i don't think that most people get that removing t2 bpos would likely decrease the profit inventors made higher input prices and also increase the price consumers paid for some rarer items. in short, it wouldn't solve anything other than jealousy. and if we're going there, why not remove every unique item as well.i've looked at several t2 bpo auctions, and the people buying are spending 4-10+ years profit on buying them. which means that they're not actually making the new owners any money, unless they hold them for at least that long unlikely. the people that intitially 'won' them, have already made the buck if there was a buck to be made, so all you're doing is punishing the people that have bought them, the same way anyone else can buy them. on the open market which is quickly turning t2 bpo's into collectors items only, because buying one will never make back the outlay.there are t2 bpos out there, that make less than 7 million isk per month, a factory slot, going for an entire month, making 7 million isk. you make more than that with a mediocre t1 bpo.the lottery is dead, respawning t2 bpos will not happen. get over it, if you really must have one, go buy one, the crappy ones will sell for less than a billion isk. granted you will never make that back on some of them, even if you spent the next hundred years building off it, but hey, you know best."
"people that own t2 blueprint originals should be punished.oooooohhhh...... yes......... punished..........whips.........straps........leather..........mmmmmmmmmmmm......... punished......."
"the reality is ccp have already dilluted bpos hugely, the 'best' t2 bpos out there make about a billion isk per month. the last one of these went for 70 billion isk. almost six years profit at current rates, and as datacore prices drop, that figure will go up as time goes on, to the point where it never actually makes it back.invention killed the era of ridiculously high t2 prices, there are t2 modules now invented en masse going for less than 500k, when they were 25mil before. you will make less with most t2 bpos than you can with many t1 bpos. and there's a newsflash, on any commonly used item, inventors are only competing with other inventors for the price, because if the demand outweighs the bpo supply, inventors will invent until it is unprofitable to do so. the bpo owner if they sold any cheaper than the invention cost, would just have the item bought and resold above the invention cost, because the demand is there to support it. t2 is now common and dirt cheap, previously fitting t2 was considered a luxury, now it's a baseline.why would you even 'do' a buyback, what would it solve, and how impossible would it be to decide on 'fair' compensation without knowing what the market price and build price for the item is for everyone involved? what if that price was less than they bought the bpo for last week ? what if it was twice as much ? who would cry foul over any change and see it as ccp favouring one group or another ?invention is the solution, it's here, and it's getting cheaper. in the end and for alot of them already, the reality is t2 bpos will become irrelevant, you don't need them to make t2 items, and you can make far more inventing and still using the same number of slots as a bpo owner because you're inventing something that is more profitable than that particular bpo."
"you're comparing isk per production run. try comparing isk per hour of an inventor of a typical t2 bpo vs the isk per hour of an inventor inventing one of the more profitable t2 items. obviously the isk per production run of the same item will be more, but being an inventor you can easily switch items to the more profitable ones which do change with market forces while the bpo owner is stuck printing out the same item regardless of how low the margins go, or how nerfed the item he has the bpo for gets. obviously the bpo owner can invent too, and we're already at the stage where many t2 bpos are being shelved and not produced from, because the manufacturing slot of the char that can build it, is worth more isk building something else.of course the reality is for owners of those products, having the bpo converted into limited runs, would actually be of benefit, as the price of the item would have to rise to the invented cost, and they would actually make more. inventors of course would make less, and the consumer would pay more."
"the people buying them today are basically trading a pile of isk for an income stream on the assumption hope that the asset itself will retain its value, or at least not depreciate too much while they hold it.that's the assumption, anyway. truth is that a 10-15% return on capital per year in eve is really poor. you'd do better way better taking your 60 billion and running 10 manufacturing slots full of something, anything, that provided your a modest markup of 8-15% but allowed you to turn that money over monthly.yeah, it's a purchase for someone looking for a collectors item, or for someone who just doesn't have a lot of business smarts."
"of course the bpo owner can always build for much lower costs than a t2 inventer can. but that is not the point.the point is that the demand for t2 items also and especially ships is now that high, that no matter how fast the t2 bpo holder can build, he will always be in the minority compared to the inventors.and maybe he can try to crash the market with ridiculous low prices but that little try of market manipulation would be quickly swallowed up by the huge demand for t2 items.it is the t2 inventor who sets the price for the item, not the bpo holder any more. this is why there is no way for the bpo-holder to compete. because he is just a small piece in the big t2 market now.sure, he can do his little profitable business, but compared to the whole market? negligtable, he has no power any more.and you know what? bpo's do not scale well. if you have a corp with 100 people, then it still would be only 1 person using one slot. but with inventions you could put all the 100 people to use and let them all make money. invention scales absolutely prefectly.so, those who complain about t2 bpo's have no understanding of inventions and the market. the real winner with t2 invention are the moon guys - and of course those who needs to fit their ships"
"what i find funny is how people say there isn't a significant profit in having t2 bpos rather than invention, but are also adamant that they get 1-2 years of advance notice if they are to be removed..."
"has nothing to do with the profit, bud. has to do with the value of the asset. if they have some notice, they could make a decision to sell the remaining inome stream for cash, or just continue to build them until they were removed. one is betting that the price is going to go down over time, the other is betting that it's going to go up.just yanking them from the game would be a huge fu to those that hold them., and them being in the game really, truly, isn't a problem. the bpo holders can't control the market anymore, as has been explained."
"sounds like another goon whine tbh. first it was titans, then cynojammers and now t2 bpo. evil bob."
"remove high sp characters ! everyone should have 3 mil sp at most !"
"as it is now, its artificial. you have corps deccing corps simply for noob kills... or, just to grief. that's as artificial as it can get. there needs to be reason behind it all... its up for the deccing corps to decide what that is. and its up for the devs to figure out a way to implement it.... so after its all said and done, each corp involved in the war has a clear road to victory. what are reasons to dec a corp?1. remove from space2. extract isk3. killscan you think of anymore reasons? wars will be so much better if they had meaning and ways for both sides to achieve victory. why should a corp be able to dec war and then simply end it with not recourse? with no fullfillment of winning, or pain of losing? talk about zero risk... all you do is pay, and poof you got a war. ccp needs to stop making isk a factor in power."
"i like 3, but it shouldn't be reqiured. 4 is alright. 5 has been discussed quite a bit, and i have no issue with it. 6 is nice, but as people have said it would be simpler to make the wars transfer to the player for the remainder of the week even if they leave.1. i do not agree with at all, and 2 just sounds stupid.however, you do not have my support as i believe the wardec system is fine."
"afterburners on interceptors doesn't work, the light drones just goggble em up."
"npc target me all the time when i warp into missions. i just warp out and wait for the runner to come back and kill them for me :"
"if i were a member of the csm, i would ask you to add a checkbox:[x] the above is a false dichotomy, since it is well possible -not- to support ccp's current ruling and still argue against aggro. or, for that matter, to feel the mission runner does own the wreck, but aggro is not the best solution here. ankhesentapemkah more or less picked up on this, for which she deserves credit. it is a false dilemma and as such, the topic deserves more open discussion. i personally feel that middle ground can be found. for example, if a mission runner would be able to configure whether or not their wrecks are open for salvaging, the cans would clearly show up as free for all or owned on the overview, making the situation clear for all involved. this would require two separate states for wrecks, complicating the game logic somewhat, but not to a great extent.another solution would be to have a timer on a wreck, allowing free salvaging after the wreck has been in space for over, say, 15 minutes but resulting in aggro when salvaged before that time. this would require a serious amount of database bookkeeping though, which is expensive in terms of performance and spaceeven farther outlying options exist, like flat out disallowing the salvage of any wrecks you do not own. not that i think that is a good idea, but it further serves to show that the choice presented is not all there is to it.anyone on their way to the 'quote' button to state that my own logical fallacy here is argumentum verbosium, stuff it ;i think the proposed flagging is a bad idea, by the way, for some of the reasons mentioned: the background reason for wreck ownership to be the way it is, the typical non-pvp setup of a salvager, etc. i would say it would be fair to flag the salvager against the wreck owning corp and have present npc's open fire on the salvager. same with salvaging a player's wreck, flagging the salvager to their corp. this way, salvaging a mission will still be dangerous, except when the mission runner is done and warps off.greetings,grismar."
"ok bottom line here,your grieving, your stealing players loot knowing that they can take no actions towards you at that time, besides shooting their wrecks which keeps them from getting it. you do it for the soul fact of just taking the loot from them, you are a leach upon all mission runners and the fact they can not step on you is just annoying!any mission runner who does not intend on salvaging wrecks would more then willingly give them to you if you asked.omg a war dec? so you can hide in a station, avoid them, or just move to an npc corp? yeah we all know war decs dont really work unless the other side wants to fight.you are grasping at straws here just to justify that you are indeed stealing and should not be able to be shot at!you use things like \"ohh we have in invested in stuff to do this\" and \"we are not interested in conflict\"! then stop freaking stealing from people! use your skills for other things, or ask the missioner if you can have the wrecks!stop being lame and leaching off the backs of those who work..."
"i got my learning skills up and it took nothing from the game for me, i wouldnt train them up to 5 but ive got most of them at 3 and 4 the only 5 i have is the one hat take ten percent off.anyway what i did was wait until i had to get a skill to level 5 such as iteron v,, the time it took was 39 days by training my learning skills i managed to get it to 30.thats what you do its kinda like training multiple skills at once."
"people flying nano ships also call themselves 'nano***s'?what if someone is actually gay and happen to fly nanoships?"
"see i have no problems with none of the skin colors or sexual preferences people might have. what i do have a problem with is when someone talks about bigotry in the same sentence in which he asks the authorities to stop people from voicing their opinions as it hurts their feelings.live and let live aight? it works if you want it to work, but then you have to accept that it works both ways."
"he was telling everyone that they shouldn't whine, that eve is harsh and that you just simply get > now and then.ccp just kicked the people that trained really long for t2 fitted nano ships with support skills right in the nuts, spit in their face and did it again.....people should be able to train for something and expect it isn't nerfed till it doesn't move anymore how ironic, move , nano nerf when they are able to fly it....ccp shouldn't nerf stuff , they should make more counters to it. that way the people that have trained their ass off for a cool ship + fittings still can fly their ships without stuff changed . and the whiners can train their asses off for counters to it."
"lmfao!is that not what your doing now? whining about whiners? yeah gg on the /fail to you for being someone you hate your self!dude are you serious? this coming from a matar? i bet you got a super hyped up vagabon that can do like 1billion km/s.i love people who are whining about the speed changes and don't even understand the fact that their nanoed out vagabon and snake implants are still gonna get their ship cruising pretty freaking fast.. your thread just drips of uninformed, quickly posted, out of frustration crap! yes straight up utter crap. in every way form and fashion, have you even logged into the test server to try out the speed changes, or did you just come in here whining that your 6 month old training is going to be ruined.. omg you mean the ship is now going to do what it was met to do?!!?!?!?they are nerfing all ships speeds, that means if your ship went faster then other ships it will sill still go faster then other ships!!!!!!!!! well with the inty not included of course. they are simply making it a bit harder to run out of range in like .4 secounds, and so that you cant out run missiles, sense missiles damage is modified via speed and target size, instead of a hit or miss like turrets... ohh yeah!you guys who complain about training for so long for nano ships.. you knew they were broken when you started training for them, thats why you trained for them... and yet now you whine that they are getting fixed... yeah well shouldnt have jumped on the bandwagon hey fan bois? get over it adapt or stop playing.. personally i think that anyone who wants an unfair advantage or linear game play shouldnt be in eve.. so if you leavecan i have your stuff?"
"hmmm how long have you guys been flying? if you havent been flying for over 2 years you werent there to see the adopton of theft agression and you probably werent there to see most of the changes made or even know why they were made and dont try to argue \"there was a reason\" because i'll ignore you like i ignore my kids when they whine over whats for dinner.at one time in the past we had what is now being argued over. yup back before so many \"balance\" nerfs and \"rebalance\" nerfs we had it better. the theft agression rules were perfect. if a pilot was illegally ganked and the ganker concordokkened the only pilot with rights to the victims loot was the victim. however during war both parties had rights to the wreck. as a pirate and empire war w***e i liked the fact both i and my targets had access to our wrecks. i had quite a few of you losers steal from my kills and many of you paid with the loss of your own ship,yeah you know who you are,my name tops the list of your loss mail. yeah yeah cry me a river and send me a hate letter they look great on our \"crybaby board\".then all of a sudden we peeps at war no longer get kill rights on thieves who take our targets wrecks. wtf man!!!! ccp get this written down and put it on every monitor in your offices...i would rather the guys who killed me get the loot he rightfully earned rather than some cheap third party nightcrawler who will be docked or 5 systems away before i get back to the site. the thieves got a warning that they are open to attack by both parties at war and now that has been ruined. its bad when i have to contact my war target and tell him his loot was stolen byinsert name here and i'll leave him alone just to gank that thief. again send crybaby hate mail to johnpauljones for posting on the utg crybaby board."
"remove all wreck and non-secured can ownership. also, remove ship loot and make everything considered salvage. makes for a more believable system and also by-product eliminates a common form of rookie system baiting."
"as a spy in smash during the conflict i have the perspective that very few people get to have during these types of conflicts. that perspective showed goonfleet destroying smash and rk in every single arena. we had more caps then they did, larger gangs, better allies, better fcing, better organization since the majority of us was in one corp any bickering was just between individuals, better fittings on our ships we named a station bwfit multispecs on everything for a reason, better spying, and better sneakiness in general. even if pos mechanics would of been different we still would of wiped the floor with them."
"counterpoint: all it took was one proton torpedo from one aspiring young jedi in a small fighter to blow up the death star and save the rebel base on yavin."
"i think it'd be a safe bet to not worry about small gangs necessarily affecting sov as long as they have a way of raiding fixed infrastructure to do damage that way. shc has a thread discussing what people would change about sov and one suggestion i liked was basically:-unlink pos from sovereignty-remove pos shields and guns-put the former pos shields and guns on a sovereignty-claiming structure anchored at planets-figure out a way to prevent ddd from obliterating the now much more vulnerable, logistics-only pos and its modules.i'd add to that:-add the ability to put low-sec caliber sentry guns at stargates and pos, for light fire against raiding forces-implement an array-style system for cynojammers and the like-prevent the jump bridge from working in a cynojammed system"
"so your fix to pos warfare is to create a new type of pos?"
"that's what people are asking for. vov"
"hmmm. so when you're invading a system with a fleet and need to drop a staging pos the main point of which is the pos shields, you now have a small fraction of the possible locations at which you might be able to do so compared with the current system. and since these new planet-pos are shields-and-guns, you can't anchor a cha or sma there to hold ammo or to refit or whatever.then on the carebear side, if you want to drop a ratting pos to act as a safespot and loot/mins depository for ratting or mining, you have to take up a comparatively rare planet-slot to do so rather than any old unused moon.ya, sounds like this was thoroughly thought through by someone who has a lot of first-hand experience in 0.0."
"the one complaint i have about this plan, kelsin, is that you're stripping all the defensive capability off poses. maybe make them smaller, but they should still exist. unmanned objects primarily dwelling in insecure space should not be utterly defenceless."
"dark age of camelot does a good job at keeping both small scale 8man and large scale aj inc pvp rewarded well.its simple. small scale pvp doesn't effect large scale pvp so much directly, but indirectly. metametameta so metapl using shark-circling tactics to take out 1/3 of a bob fleet doesn't undo bob, but it definitely weakens them for a larger engagement they might be on their way to. they know they can't contend with a full hundred man fleet with a gang of 20, but they can set traps to kill a few here and there, pick off stragglers, bait overconfident nubbins away from the fleet, much like 8mans can and do in daoc.goonfleet on the other hand we call zerg-surfing, or aj inc. their intent isn't to weaken a fleet with guerrilla warfare, but to slug it out and may the bigger fleet win. and thats rvr tower/keep/relic taking gameplay compared to 8man or smallman gameplay.the reason this style of play isn't as rewarding in eve is cause the only reward in eve is isk, theres no realm points, or 'pwn points' to accumulate in eve. its all about sovereignty, isk, and meaningless killboard stats. people smallman in eve simply because its fun, not so much because it is meaningful.if small fleet engagement victories were rewarding in some way, this would be no small fleet complaints.and seriously, these ideas for helping small man gangs playing a serious roll in sov warfare are terrible and would ruin the game for the people who currently enjoy it. getting thousands of people to cooperate is a challenge in itself, and anything that would make little of the organizational difficulty of current sov warfare would be a detriment to eve."
"okay one thing that has bugged me since the beginning of this csm yes i've read all the chat logs how sad am i is the fact that things get escalated on the basis of people not disliking them enough. at present the idea seems to be that you vote to escalate unless you have a strong objection and i think this is a dangerous precedent as well as not what people voted for. i would like to point out that at this stage i am not singling anyone out in the csm as i think everyone is doing it.personally i am of the belief that as csm delegates when you vote to escalate a issue to ccp you are staying something along the lines of \"look at this. this is important enough that all of us that we feel you should invest some time looking at\". at the moment there seems it be more along the lines of \"look at this. this is relatively uninteresting and enough of us didn't care to vote it down\". my reasoning behind this is as follow. ccp delegates a finite amount of resources in this case man hours to looking at the proposals escalated by the csm. if a topic is escalated to them it will take a portion of that resources away which leaves less time for those matters which do matter enough to enough people that you vote to escalate because it is deemed important. i am not for one minute considering that a topic such as \"i want my thorax to be pink\" will get as much attention as \"a wonder new a perfect way to radically alter the marketplace to be easier to use and less server issues and will cure lag and give everyone back rubs\" but even the process of dismissing an idea as a waste of time to even consider takes some of that precious time ccp have given to the csm process. so please in future can you just think whether or not you want to spend your coin as it were on some of the issues that are advanced. mini rant over. edit for spelling"
"the thing about that is, a lot of the small issues do matter. most of the things brought forward are good common-sense proposals, and they're the sort of thing ccp should be addressing. also, a lot of them don't take too long. especially given that this is the first incarnation of the csm, all the issues that have been around for yearsswitch all ammo at once, say are getting brought forward. ccp knows the answer, and doesn't have to think about it, but the players want to hear it."
"in the middle of the nano nerf hype, i hope you will find this refreshing idea worthy to show direction how to change the local in the future.previous suggestions were based on ancient ideas, like completely eliminate local channel, or allow people leaving this channel. these are bad in basic imho, because intelligence should work on more levels, than \"having\" or \"not having\".short introductionthe basic idea of neural networks is that whenever you your ship enter a new system, your ship connects to an information hub located within the system which provides it with information about local. a system can have multiple information hubs, which can be maintained both by npc and by player organizations. the kind of information available through these information hubs depends on the level of access the hub is providing to the pilot. the level provided is standing-dependent, their subnetworks can be standing-dependant and subscription-based too. the maximum level of intel provided by player maintained networks is also might depend on the system sovenerity level of the entity providing the information. possible hubs players can use: in empire space the system holder faction is providing hub access to anyone who subscribes for this service and has high enough standings to access the hubs. this means that the amarr, the caldari, the gallente and minmatar, and also the pirate factions operate their own neural networks players may be able to connect to. furthermore, hi-quality services can be accessed like the faction navies e.g. caldari navy subnetworks, providing a better quality of service, but also at a higher price. in hi-sec concord is providing a free neural network as well, which is available to anyone, but criminals. in 0.0 player corporations and alliances have to deploy their own hubs if they want to use them. a neural network hub structure can be anchored to posses, which provides information to the pilots who have access to it. the quality of service depends on the subscribtion, and the maximum qos achievable by hub structures is same with the souvenerity level of the system. hubs located in sov 3 and sov 4 systems are much more accurate and detailed than those in sov 0, sov 1 and sov 2. the other way to get infromations in systems one does not have a friendly pos in is the use of role ships recons and/or neural network probes. recon ships may serve as a neural network hub, and the level provided could depend on whether the ship is cloaked or not and skills ofc. the probes are similar to scan probes, they can be launched from probe launchers and provide some level of qos to all those, who are in the same gang/network."
"concept details the neutal network is a concept, where the main idea is to force the players to organise their local for themselfes. the base idea is simple, if you do nothing, you wont receive any kind of intelligence about people present. \"do for it\" is not as hard as it might sound at first. equipments, like system scanners at poses, or proper scan probes, or role ships can provide information on many levels about who is along with you.the \"many levels\" means four levels, it's not an accident, that it's the same number, like the sovereignity levels have. anchorable devices cant provide better quality of information level, than the level of sov. in the system. recon ships and covert ops class frigates may provide intelligence on three levels 1-2-3, based on if the ship is cloaked, or not, or in case probes were used for the better quality, what kind of them were gathering the information.in \"high sec\" systems people may use npc faction networks if their standings are good enough towards the given faction. concord network should be also present and avaliable for everyone, whose the security status is a non negative number, lower personal sec status means an auto-kick.since its kind of impossible having \"good enough standings towards all npc factions\", there would be gaps in \"low sec\" by default, which should be normal. increasing the sight of a pilot might be avaliable by player networks in low sec also, but not with the current sovereignity system. if it would be possibe having \"major sov.\" and \"minor sov.\" in a system, low sec could turn into paradise for a lot of people. maintaining low sec networks and renting them for some isk could be a profession and ofc source of conflict. anyways, there is a big potential in this imho.it should be possible to join multiple networks at the same time. joining a system, where there are multiple networks present always means that player receives the best quality of information automatically. networks sould be working both on alliance and corporation level. this means joining the amarr network is nice, but i'm sure by joining the imperial navy's network might be better source in most cases, just like the khanid network in in the khanid kingdom. each faction has it's main network, joining its subnetworks faction member corps should be optional."
"in case of player network, the situation is similar to npc networks. if a corporation/alliance founds a new network, the first thing which has to be defined is the nain network node, which is the default, custom filtered node, intel sources can be strained off by information type, like poses only/ships only/probes only, xy corp assets only, or other restictions, like max 1st and 2nd level only. subnetworks, which provides quicker, better information can be reserved for true allies/more isk.in a system, which is no man's land, if there is no intel source present, there should be no intel at all, except about people on common networks. i'm sure many people are concerned about the future of roaming gangs, and stuff. having a friendly recon ship in system solves the problem, you wont fly blind, as long as there is a covert ops/recon ship with you and on a common network.also if this system comes live, sending distress signals finally can come into game. the main problem with distress signals in the current system is obvious, if you are already in trouble, you wont call in your enemies too. if you are able to pick which networks should transmit the distress signal, only your friends will receive your message. the message in itself is not enough, people on common network with the distress signal frequency also see the location as a warpable beacon.to avoid \"fun with sending distress signals\", this should not be a free feature, i guess 1m isk should be enough to make people \"bored\" with this.with the neural network, new type of agent missions can be implemented, like travel to hostile territory, probe some stuff, kill some stuff, rest like usual. if you are still reading, you must be really curious, what are these levels exactly, what kind of difference might be there... well, let me introduce my guess:basic 1 level:1 minute delayshows friendlies in system, by namedisplays whether unknown presence is in systemreports about ships entering / leaving the system names only for friendliesplease visit your user settings to re-enable images.story is simple, 1 neutral/hostile guy left the system, then later a friend, who is on a same network, like \"you\" has joined the system. the refresh rate of this level is 1 minute, or whatever.moderate 2 level:30 secs delayshows friendles in system, by nameshows local countreports about ships entering / leaving the system names only for friendliesplease visit your user settings to re-enable images.the story here is simple too, 1 neutral/hostile left the system, then 3 of them joined. this level provides double speed refresh rate compated to the basic level.advanced 3 level:no delayprovides list of both enemies and friends, by nameshows both enemies and friends entering system, by namecustomizable statistics, like summariesplease visit your user settings to re-enable images.this is what you could see on the third level, its actually same with the current local, except it is able to show who is joining and leaving the system.please visit your user settings to re-enable images.and this is what local could be, if players were able to customize the channel if high level intel is available. i'm sure many people would not care joins/leaves for each random people, if in a middle of a fleet battle and lag it would be cool, if it would be easy to follow the odds all the time.the last one is the home level 4, which is about the same with the previous level, but with intel about ship types also for each pilot."
"now you may ask, what is the point, why even touch local? i brought this up because of i'd like to propose a better alternative than here has mentioned. otherways, it's because:- you could be able to take advantage by getting better intel- you could be able to blind your enemies by killing their intel source which could be fun in the middle of a fleet battle, or home system- you could send/receive distress signals- you could earn money by advertising and renting out your network- people were forced to claim systems, it would be an interest to populate 0.0 more, than ever- blind spots in space, where anything can happen like in good old times- recon ships would finally get the recon role- imagine, how many chinese farmers would die in the first week :- alliances were able to decide, who is getting free intel on local in their sovereign systems- finally low sec could receive a nice boost- guess other stuff too...here is about why i dont think all this would be a barrier for people.and here are some thoughts about recon ships."
"please point out the run on sentence in my post. sorry. i. have. to. be. specific. when. describing. my. point. or. someone. will. say. i. am. being. to. general.was. that. a. little. easier. for. you. and. the. goonie. to. understand.also. you. might. want. to. check. for. typos. when. being. sarcastic.they. make. your. response. look. bad."
"yeah i couldn't find it either. try using the return key next time."
"the run-on was definitely mine"
"not a phoenix pilot, but after reading up on this issue, the problem seems very clear: smartbombs used properly can make capital torps completely useless. a suggestion made in the thread the op linked seems like a clever fix to this: siege mode increases the hps of missiles by 625% or some other suitable amount. of course, simple boosting the baseline hitpoints significantly would work just as well."
"phoenix pilot here.i've found on singularity that my citadel torpedoes do seem to be somewhat more effective when not fired in a volley, but rather with a staggered firing time. that's great against other dreads -- they generally don't fit smartbombs. the problem there is that it's very easy for my target to negate that by simply staggering their own smartbombs.so, /signedwe're not asking for a boost to damage against subcapitals. we're not asking for a boost to fast targets. we're not asking for a boost to damage against structures though tbh, there are some issues to be worked out for torpedoes fired pre-siege and pre-end-of-siege. what we're asking for is simply a boost to citadel torpedo survivability.a t1 large smartbomb will do 250 damage of its specified type, whereas a t2 large smartbomb will do 300 damage of its specified type. a citadel torpedo has 650 hp with 0 resists i assume, since there's no resists specified. that means it takes three large smartbombs kill a citadel, simple t1 smartbombs will work great. let's look at many carriers and supercapitals -- they'll often fit three or four smartbombs when expecting to need to be anti-citadel. that's great. but is there a drawback? not really. as someone else pointed out, there's not much else to put in those high slots."
"signed"
"yes, this is an issue."
"this is quite clearly an issue that needs addressing."
"give 'em some love"
"reason i made it, i got sick of trying to train up for something on sisi to test stuff out and when i'm almost there it gets mirrored."
"/signed"
"i just want to point out that ccp has a 95% chance of missing the fact that raising mass on all ships with the speed change is going to nerf black ops battleships even more by making the ridiculous fuel intensive jump bridge mod take even more fuel nerfing them even farther."
"i wish someone from ccp would comunicate what their thoughts are on the bo issues, but they've gone eerily stumm for quite a while now."
"i have to agree on that. a nano gang can do much better then your black ops gang, and you only need a prototype cloaking on the gang and they will be more affective then your black ops gang running around doing its dissaapear and reappear act. you havent changed anytning except make a battleship more expensive and giveing it a really cool name. a rapier and ships like it will see more action. if you make a black ops bs, it needs to be able to the kinds of things regular tech i bs can not do. a recon is much cheaper and more depenable and can do a great deal more of then a blaock ops ahip can ever hope to do the way it is now. because it can do everything a recon can do. and the fact it has a bs hull configuration makes it worth 800 mill :\i really expected more from something that wouls cost me 800 million isk.we already have a role for that and its called a recon. wich you can get for 80 million isk or cheaper from your alliance most likely.try bending the role of a bs instead of giveing us a nerfed ship. recons can figt solo, why not the black ops ? and some extra turrets and plus all of its smaller recon counter parts abilities and thats wil definately be worth 800 mill isk.or tyake them to a nouther extreem if they are not ment for pvp. because other ships with the same role are cheaper and can do it better."
"yeah, stick the fits in an easily accessible format.txt should be sufficient, since each module has a unique name, and have it load them from a subdirectory of your your eve directory. it'll get included in the next eft release, i'm sure. this is a very good idea."
"i like this idea but i think it might be better implemented as part of the manufacturing tab. you can set it up just like a blueprint run. use the instruction sheet as a blueprint, punch in how many runs/ships you want to fit and it removes the items from your hangar and starts the job like any other one. i think in order for balance doing it this way would actually take longer than if you did it manually but it frees up that pilot to be doing other things. it also seems like doing it this way would lessen the server load.after all we are supposed to be super rich pod pilots, i shouldn't have to fit my own ship i have people to do that for me."
"storing these client-side sounds like a good solution, especially if it allows eft to utilize the files."
"yes please ..."
"fantastic idea."
"yep - even better for those of us with rubbish memories who have to figure out their fit all over again each time...."
"yesss!"
"/signed"
"in case of database problems, i could imagine this feaure purely on client-side: clients save xls flie, clients load xls file, players will solve the rest."
"gets a thumbs up from me"
"would be awesome"
"against.i guess i still can't see the value of nerfing webifiers.and anyway, perhaps some ships can still go too fast... but nanoships were a problem when you'd actually see them being used. they're not really that common anymore.i hate to be cliche, but i agree - stealth caldari boost. they're not really affected by it at all :\ but therein lies the problem, caldari is not -supposed- to be the best pvp race. they are a fantastic gang race.keep it that way, ccp! don't blend everything together! i want real reasons based on play style to pick one ship over the other, not just because of how it looks in space! :"
"against it."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"changes need to be made. the proposals on test however are too drastic.one thing at a time in my opinion.i like the 'scram turns mwd off' ideai think that nano's and polys should stacki think that od's and aux thrusters should stacki don't think od's and nano's should stack, they affect completely different attributes of a ship! drop that bit and the change gets a bit more balance imo"
"i have 2 chars with 4 clones each with a head full of snakes"
"i like some of the idea's already. although the dual skill training is still one of the highest topics discussed. it would be wise not to over complicate it. 1 - your dual training.2 - you dont always have to penalize for every bonus.3 - dont make something then attack it with the possibility have haveing future problems. in other words, dont nerf something that was made to simplify something. or just scrap the idea. why not have the the faster skill train slower like you said. but have the slowest skill slightly accellerated. since they are intertwined in that sence. it would be wiser to take advantage og both side rather then one side dominates all on this matter. but thats just me makeing things simple. it is only an idea."
"\"it was concluded that ccp will look into a solution for this issue.\"ccp: this is a non-answer. are or are you not going to do somthing on this issue? more importantly, if you are when are you going to implement it? this is by far the most annoying problem with eve. logging in just to change skills rarely is more than annoying. why not make it easier for people? that way you might actually get more customers.we dont need an unlimited skill que, we just need one that allows us to sleep through the night, go to work or, god forbid, have a life outside of this great game. i support the idea of having a primary and a secondary skill que where the 2nd one starts when the first one ends. then, just to prevent people abusing the system, stop the que/skill training if the account stops paying.had this system been in place, i would have continued to pay during the month and a half that i was away on business and didnt have a strong enough computer to actually log in. as it was, i just trained the longest skill i could find and then stopped payment.come on guys, please do this. its amazing that you have so many people complaining about enacting a skill que for so many years and yet you do nothing. are you trying to satisfy your customers or not?"
"sounds like an interesting idea to me, supported"
"you know i actually quite like this suggestion it kinda makes sense. it would probably help lag in huge fleet battles where it would say that a certain amount of an alliance is in system rather than each individual pilot in system./signed"
"i can see that big alliances and corps would make a good use out of this suggestion, controlling all or parts of \"local\" intel and comms. but small player groups, newbies and the average occasional miners would be completely f****d.no support."
"brutuus:your opinion is one sided a bit, i think you missed some points.lets see a situation, where a small corporation attacks a borderzone of a \"big alliance\" where the allaince has sov level2, so the continous intel level is on the second level. the small corporation's recon ship enters the system, launches the best probe she has and receives intel on level3 for the pilots whole network, until probe is alive. i dont see a disatvantage here, it could be easier to surprise those, who think are safe.newbies, and average occasional miners would be forced to work in teams and learn/adapt? i dont see a problem here either, this is not wow. noobs die in masses anyways, no matter what.in 0.0 the groups, you mentioned can't expect a glorious future anyways like 90% of them, not even with the current local mechanics. if your concern is about low sec, with this system, players could \"settle down\" more easily. by hard work, or good connections / high standings they could have a nice intel resource there, so they could organize their self defense, enjoy better security than ever, just think about distress signals.if you say, the main problem is, that all this isnt free, then id like to see, what do you do, if all you have is a constellation channel. :"
"small gang and solo players do not necessarily get into disadvantage with the proposed local change. if they go to big alliance territory to do their stuff, they will be in disadvantage, of course. in \"neutral\" areas, tho, like no mans land, where noone has intel, or in faction sov areas, they will have the same chance as anyone else, with the difference that intel is delayed for both parties. if one has good faction standings, he may even have advantage over the newcomers. example, serpentis agent runners have higher serpentis standings, so they get better intel about local in serpentis controlled systems than the random ganker."
"hmmm....could make the whole ecm/eccm thing more exciting too. having ships/skills that allow folks to hack networks for info/disruption.i'll give it a thumbs up..."
"i really like this idea!/signed"
"the whole point of a local nerf isn't a massive boost for 0.0 alliance, but rather as a nerf for 0.0 alliances...not supported"
"actually, i want local removed for rp reasons. you think a local nerf would hurt large alliance.this is the strongest alternative i've seen so far. everyone in high-sec gets access to concord intel. everyone with faction standings gets access to low-sec and npc 0.0 intel. sovereignty holding alliance gets intel and can give it to those who have good standings with them allies just like setting up who gets shot by pos guns.maybe not as complicated as you have presented, but something along these lines that separates chat and intel.edited forgot support"
"i sense a slight contradiction here. and since when is republic military school is a 0.0 alliance?btw supported."
"thx for the summary and support ofc. the only aspect i missed from it, the small corporations and non-territorial entities also have their chance to get an own source: with some recon ships they can have an own mobile intel-network, quickly, easily and cheap."
"very interesting, even if this is just a \"beta\" version of what local could be i still support this alternative or something like it being pushed forward."
"i like the idea. would like to see ccps opinion of this and other local nerfs."
"a good idea for setting up the bounty hunter profession. if nothing else, this will be a far better bounty system than what is implemented right now.as for agressor's not being able to accept merc contracs. although i understand your reasons for setting it up this way, it just will not work. as has been mentioned before you can not stop the agressor in getting merc help outside the ird approved system. so you might aswell let both parties have acces to the system."
"support the nano-nerf.however, don't destroy blaster boats in the process."
"holy ****, you're pretty dumb.could you, please, not get any more \"ideas\" about 0.0 space or alliances? because it's obviuos you've never even been in either 0.0 space or an alliance.thanks."
"ankh, honey, i know you're trying... but some of these simply prove that you've never been to 0.0 for any serious length of time.i like the idea, but i'd find it hard to make it not abused for isk. i'd be more for a roaming agent that goes into 0.0 once in a while than a static 0.0 agent in alliance space.there are agents in 0.0, but not in conquerable space. just like you can't form a corporation in conquerable space.great idea, but very little practicality. the moment you allow player-specified goals is the moment you allow 90% a large percentage of player-created missions to be griefers looking for an easy gank along the mission's parameters.abusable. if you already know of pos locations, then why ask someone else to go locate them? and if you don't know the locations, it takes 30 seconds to find it with a probe or 10 or 15 minutes at the most to find it without if you're very poor at using your scanner. chances are that it would take longer to get to the target system unharmed than it would to actually scout the target starbase.perhaps this would be a useful mission. but i can't see it adding any extra depth than currently. and it would be easily abusable by spies noting that the mission's been taken and simply telling the defenders to defend that starbase. currently, alliances are able to form gangs and get to the target system before telling their gang the purpose of being in target system.same as raid.maybe. again, i can't see it adding much more depth.courier contracts are just as effective.this might be useful. why limit it to minerals? don't limit it to alliances or their space.oh, i like this one. again, don't limit it to alliances or their space."
"i'm afraid that this one is probably the least useful. you'll have people sitting bored for y hours, which is not fun.this would probably be no different than search and destroy but with limitations. limitations are bad.easily abusable. make sure ship x gets from verysecurey to verysecurezjustonejumpaway and make lots of isk from continued success! and people wouldn't use this if there's any decent chance of failure since they wouldn't want to lose the mission ship *and* lose the mission.i'd have to see the implementation before agreeing with it. it could easily be abused, easily be useless, or even both.blockade could be the most boring of them, depending upon which system and for how long.tbh, i'm all for personally owned starbases. but i think that consumed trade goods would probably rarely be used. i'd rather see fixes to a lot of starbase things than consumables added to outposts.in all reality, alliance space is much too dynamic to allow for many of the player created missions you're suggesting, in my opinion. i do like the idea of industry missions though; contracts are far too limiting there to be of any use without a significant risk of scams."
"your slogan for joining the csm was that you're just a little everyday person in an npc corp for the masses of people still in empire or something to that effect, i don't remember your exact words. what are you doing presenting options and changes for 0.0 if you're trying to represent empire folk? if you're asking that, then it's obvious that you need a little perspective. just as you've challenged yourself to gain rank 10 factional warfare status in under a week, i challenge you to join a competetive 0.0 alliance for 3 months and actively engage in alliance operations: mining, production the easy parts, moon mining and reactions the easy and boring part, setting up starbases the boring part, hauling the stressful part, roaming the fun and stressful part, and starbase warfare the fun, stressful, and expensive part. if the alliance you choose does not do 2/3 of those, then they are not competitive.once you've gained perspective, then you can decide how valid you really think these changes are."
"you'll note that i didn't post in support, merely asked for clarification. it would encourage less blobbing however as fleet commanders would quickly learn that the best way to gain a decent reward in this system isn't to drop 10x the number of ships needed to take down the pos and keep the fleet off their back in the process as by doing that the reward gets diluted down so much that each fleet member is barely covering the costs of their ammo/lost ships.instead, they'll take what they need as that'll mean a better individual payout, building up their experience of smaller scale fleet ops by maximising the efficiency of each ship in the fleet rather than using tactics akin to swatting a fly with a thermonuke.perhaps setting it as a mission wouldn't be such a good plan, instead how about letting an alliance set a bounty like a concord bounty on enemy structures/ships payable only on destruction of said structures/ships only achievable by nominated mercenaries and members of the alliance that set the bounty. that would make things easier for paying mercenaries, for example, and could have knock on effects that increase the effectiveness of empire mercenary companies.for example, corp x has declared war on corp y, corp y being a industrial corp decides to hire mercenary corp z to fight this war setting a payscale of 1,000 isk per shuttle/noobship, 10,000 isk per frigate, 50,000 isk per destroyer, 100,000 isk per cruiser, 250,000 isk per battlecruiser and 1 million isk per battleship destroyed.just brainstorming, these ideas likely have huge flaws that i haven't thought of at the moment and likely belong on a different issue thread."
"there should be capital mining lasers!!!"
"i agree with the op, as do i agree that if this is to be implemented the scanner would need some kind of overhaul."
"agreed...but! i can see a problem. imagine jumping into the constellation which houses jita and having the constellation chat window update everytime someone jumps into that constellation. 3000+ people in a chat channel spamming away while it updates with portraits from the hundreds of players leaving and entering the constellation from loads of different gates in different systems at the same time would frankly be very annoying and i'd imagine a little bit laggy. i think it can work though, maybe;1.0 to 0.1 space - local chat is in \"immediate mode\" and constellation chat is in \"delayed mode0.0 space - local chat is in \"delayed mode\" and constellation chat is in \"immediate mode\"i think this would work because the amount of traffic in 0.0 is considerably less than empire. it would work with the risk vs reward factor aswell, lowsec would as it is now would be more dangerous than 0.5+ however not being able to use local as a tool in 0.0 makes the dangers of 0.0 higher with its obvious higher rewardsit may need a little bit of mapping to make sure all 0.0 space does not have lowsec/empire systems within the same constallation though i think this is already the case"
"hello citizens of evei have read a lot of good ideas, and a lot of problems and trust concerns. i can't solve these concerns but i had bridge the the gap between stock & trust issues in my corporations & alliance here is how i did it.-aces guidelines let me address some issues one at a time and i promises you will have fun with stock options within the game, and at the same time help you avoid some general pitfalls or hazards. 1just as in real life, stock markets and stock are only as good as the ceos and their directors and are maintained in a free market. currently in the game, only alliances can act as advocates or policing of scams within a alliance setting. if a corporation is just selling random stock on a forum there will be no accountability to anyone. real life markets are financial alliances all over the world. this must remain true in eve for the game to function as a free market. 2 why does a corporation want to sell stock? normally to raise money for the corporation, for investments in bigger than life projects agreed upon by a group of individuals3 good stock practices. a corporation which is selling stock also should be awarding free stock to employeeslike loyalty points, defenders, miners and people who are helping the alliance as a bonus program. without stock award programs stock will lose its value and the purchasers-stockholders have no way to recover their loses. in real life employees are awarded stock options, this has to be true for the game too. your best investors will come from within the alliance or group 4 dividends; in real life dividends are award to the stockholders every 90 days if the corporation declares a profit. in eve this should be paid every month, with a disclosesure mailing list for all stockholders. if no dividend is paid the ceo should still print a disclosesure with a reason why no dividend is paid, example for no dividend payment is; war or industrial mishap. 5 stock value; any corporation selling stock for more than 25 mill-isk for a shares is a poor risk, unless there is a tracking system of dividend payments, disclosesure statements and out of alliances stockholders, which can be verified as non-alts. in general, avoid stock over 25 million-isk per share. this will limited your losses6stock typeshelps secondary market sales; in real life stock comes in many types, example-promissory stock, stock, stock option etc. in eve make the terms of stock types easy for non-financial players. first stock branches a municipal-all executor corporations b civil-all private corporation without a director or ceo in a executor corp. stock-issue types; 1new issues stock-sold directly from a corporation, 2memory stock-player selling stockholdings and 3award stock or also called bonus stock-free stock issued to a player for services or killmails, or for being active etc. 7secondary marketthe real player value; to assure a secondary market of stock for players who wish to sell award stock or memory stock it's the ceo's responsibility to limit the sale of new issues stock sold to anyone individual to 3% of the corporation shares. there stockholder can still receive award stock, but must seek new purchase stock from current stock holders, know as memory stock.8trust issue-value; for stock to work you need a ceo which has appointed several directors who can sell new stock for his corporation. stock sales must go into the corp. wallet and serve the great good of the corporation over any individual.the ceo must hold 51% of new issue stock but, only use his vote as veto vote in rare cases, otherwise should not vote. the ceo must return two out of three dividend payments to maintain the corporation financial stability. if the ceo go's inactive, the directors can still split stock and reduce the ceo's stock holdings to less than 1%, award issued stock percent equal to each stockholder shares value to maintain stability. or in case of a director going rogue and stealing a ceo will still maintain the 51% of stock within his corp. to firer the director and bleed that rogue shares down to less than 1% and than award equal value back to the share holders. over time the ceo must issue more that 51% of all shares to the public when maintaining majority shares within his corporation. this will assure a democratic system for your stock votes. if a executor can turn his alliance corporations into stock companies the alliance will have dividends to fund it instead of fees. this will create a mutual-fund effect investing players which leave your alliance or corporation in seeing your group do well in the future assuring there dividend payments. any player who turns hostile can have there holdings reduced at anytime. i invite all of you to join us to learn the program. cash warbash judge-advocate general; legal agent"
"in ending; corporations stocks work just the way it is. leaderships is the issue. some better tracking is needed, but its leadership that makes it all work. i would not be happy if the stocks options had a major change loyalty is earned through duty and honor cash warbash judge-advocate general; legal agent"
"looked to me like the proposal was to move all l4 agents to 0.0. that would make them the new static plexes, more or less, though admittedly not as rich. it does in fact provide another way to farm, and get rich, in 0.0. again, it's a freaking game. so, when you vanquish your 0.0 rival you want for there to be nowhere for them to go? you'd like them to spend the next three years trying to claw their way back up with the l2 agents and veldspar \"pop-rocks\" that would be left in empire? we ought to just go straight to \"perma death\", no? they could probably train a whole new character up in the time it would take them to be ready to attempt to take 0.0 space again. the only alternative that they'd have would be to join up with someone bigger. then that fish gets swallowed up by a bigger one, and so on, till you have two entities in this game. in case you haven't noticed, the concentration of power is breaking the game already. servers can't handle it. you sure that's a process you want to accelerate? i have lived in low-sec/no-sec as an individual. in venal no less. i know its possible, and frankly, not even that hard. i also know it's wholly unattractive to the typical empire dweller. they won't go, bud. if you try to force them by turning empire into a ghetto, they'll just bail. it does not bode well for the long term health of everybody's game."
"hahahahah maybe i should stop ratting in the best systems because 1 faction spawn every 4 hours in unheard of lawl. i would guess i hit 15-20 faction spawns and i've been in eve a year, never seen an officer. here's what ratting in 0.0 looks like when the belts are bad. that 13mil payout is a domination general that dropped nothing of value so all you get is the bounty. this is in a -1.0 system, supposedly the best space in the game!"
"ahh, that. i actually agree with that, i was talking more on the last page about just nerfing hisec kill missions.nowhere for them to go? when they lose, they're already pushed out of 0.0 sovereignty-wise. they could always go to lowsec as well. the concentration of power is caused by sovereignty mechanics not by the fighting.ffs no one will be forced. it just makes them earn less isk while sitting in hisec. if they want to sit there and effortlessly earn enough isk to afford anything they want with no risk, then eve is not the game for them. i've never seen a game become more popular due to being dumbed down."
"people talk about their being missions in 0.0 yes some parts of 0.0 have them but the parts that do not have player controlled sov. this means that all the new space and other places that are not npc sov have no missions. missions make you more money than mining, excluding the person who gets a faction spawn ever five hours. i have gotten maybe 10 faction spawns in over two years in 0.0, i have mined all of the abc's and mercoxit none of these were better at making money than a friend who had both his mission alts run missions in high sec on npc corp alts. if you guys are so agitated about the idea of not having you mission hubs in high sec try thinking about living where you can't run missions at all in the region. you are in the supposedly best place to mine for cash or rat for money and you make less than the person who never leaves the protection of high security space. moving the missions to 0.0 would up the risk for every one or create hubs of calm 0.0 where mission runners killed people who disrupted them. heck i'm just ranting now."
"from the faq page on the official eve site:"
"are you presenting this as proof of 1 needs to be tweaked because currently eve is not like the bold paragraph or 2 doesn't need to be tweaked because the bold paragraph says it works.i think we all know that 0.0, and mostly so conquerable 0.0, is supposed to be more profitable for the individual."
"i did that to quash the \"let them play the game like they want to, there's nothing wrong with riskless isk printing in hisec\" crowd. i did that so we can cut through the bull**** of people who understand nothing of eve's core design, and get more towards figuring out a solution. of course if someone would like to present an argument that lowsec/0.0 is significantly more profitable than hisec missioning then i'd love to hear it, but i'm sick and tired of the wow attitudes."
"my *******, you are really unlucky. i have got more than 10 faction spawns exploring in high sec. heck, i have got 4 or 5 faction spawns mining in a 0.5 system and have the slave implants to prove that. btw: i mine less than 2/hours week on the average."
"this prove that you have no freaking idea where you talk about. are you aware what will become with economy? do you want your battleship will cost you like 500m or even more?if this happence noone will still mine damn veldspar in low or null sec anyway.. never actualy so long there is much better ore's to get your isk.not suported!"
"the risk/reward that really needs to be considered here is ccps. by caving in to jealous neverdogoods/hardcore players and nerfing highsec to the stoneage, they risk a massive loss of subscribers among casual players and peacenicks. and they stand to gain... well, nothing really.otoh leaving things as they are, they risk nothing and stand to gain a continuation of the upward trend of the last two years.i know what i would do if i was a corp exec.now i wouldn't mind a mild nerf to highsec missions like in the form of no salvage from npc wrecks in highsec i make easily twice as much isk/hour from salvaging than from the mission itself on the good salvage missions, and this would at the same time probably be a good boost to lowsec missions as salvage prices would possibly skyrocket, but since ccp seems to operate on a 'stonage or status quo' policy, i rather oppose any nerf."
"so, it's the usual \"ccp will lose subscribers\" argument? ccp won't lose subscribers if they nerf high sec. removing salvage from high sec is a first step, but it would hit new players harder than it would hit lvl 4 runners, so it's probably not the best idea. better to remove bounties and loot from high sec missions."
"lets just bottom line this so this thread can die the horrible death it deserves and can go the way of the hundreds of other threads that have brought up this very topic and been rightfully ignored.lets, for a moment, go hypothetical and give the op everything he wants. *boom!* wave of the magic wand.... insert wavy lines.... fade to black. all level 4s are in 0.0 and all level 3s are in low sec. empire roids now produce little/nothing, and can't efficiently be strip mined.what happens now? be honest here. no, i said be honest.the eve economy will grind to a halt, or at the very least be an anemic shadow of its former self. the eve player population will go down because of it; and it will stay down. and that isn't good for anyone. pvpers, pveers, ccp, you, me, nobody.to anyone who thinks that this won't decrease the player population to a degree that hurts ccp's financial ability to further develop the game as quickly as it would have been otherwise, you are seriously kidding yourself.but, i said i was going to bottom line it here, and i think i already have for the game as a whole. now, i'll bottom line it for myself, on a personal level.i love eve. i love playing eve. but, as i have played eve over the years, my reasons for playing it have also changed. i used to play eve for the adrenaline rush of pvp. but, those days are long gone. i play eve these days to relax after a long day at work. and, lets face it, if you relax out in low/no sec, sooner or later, you die.or, let me put this another way. i live in empire these days, and i like it. i like it because i pay to play this game just like every other account holder. this means that i want to play the game when i want, how i want, and for how long i want. i don't like people screwing with my game time. either in real life, or in the game itself. that is all 80% of the people do out in low/no sec: i.e. screw with other people playing the game; sometimes by mutual consent but more often not.this entire proposal talks of moving a major game activity that i admittedly enjoy from an environment where there are limited ways for people to mess with me while i play, to an environment where there are unlimited ways for those same people to screw with my ability to do what i want, when i want. that is something that i will never support. i am not going to pay my money so that someone else can screw with me. its as simple as that.the bottom line of this for me personally is this: i pay my money to play this game for my enjoyment, not anyone elses. and, there is no way to get around the fact that this is a not so carefully disguised way to make me pay so that someone else can have their fun on my dime. nope. not gonna happen.people also keep bringing up the fact that this is about making the risk/reward balanced so that combat in low/no sec is \"more meaningful.' this point is absolute crap.if pvp out in low/no sec is so \"meaningless\" why do thousands of pilots participate in it everyday?the only other point that is brought up about high sec \"reward\" is that there is \"too much of it\". well, if is so awesome, and pays so much, why don't the people complaining about it come take some of the isk for themselves instead of living out in low/no sec? maybe cause there is plenty of isk out there? final thoughts: some people see eve as an unlimited opportunity fight and kill each other as many times as they can manage. i found this aspect of the game appealing once. but, now days, i more side with the crowd that sees eve as an opportunity to come together with my fellow players and build something meaningful, that may last for time and doesn't have to do with vaporizing each other.eve wonderfully accommodates both sets of desires. that is one of its many appeals. but, if the op gets his way, one of these areas will be severely diminished. and, eve, as a whole, along with it.no support."
"the thing that moves money in eve is not missions, its pvp. ships get blown up, builders buy minerals from miners, and build ships. missions just provide fast unlimited riskless money to buy ships. thats why, as one guy stated before, nobody can cause massive loss for each other, because you can simply build up you capital fast again. when ccp nerfs missions in hisec, economy of eve wont halt. people who dont want to go to lowsec will become miners, so more minerals. some will go to lowsec, more pvp. sure, we will see some minor decrease in playerbase numbers, as some people will get back to wow, but as ccp said not long ago, if something becomes a mandatory in the game and lvl4 hisec missions became a mandatory in earning money in hisec then it needs to be nerfed.you see, nobody gives a **** how much you pay or what you want. for example, i pay for n accounts and i want that concord would be removed. will this happen because i want it ? i dont think so. its not that missions give out too much reward, its because it has too little risk or i should say no risk. also, using the problem to counter the same problem is not a solution.also :"
"this is the most common argument used by opponents of changing missions, but it's a pretty big assumption, not based on factual evidence. \"but ccp said so-and-so many people run missions...\" yes, they did, and it perfectly describes the problem. missions pay out too damn much, and that's why so many people run them. lower the rewards and people will find something else to do. some will quit, sure. not many, and neither the game nor the economy will hurt.no, this point is spot on. if isk is plentyful enough in high sec, there is no reason to seek it in unsafe space. low sec becomes a glorified battleground where people go to \"have fun\". not to live. not to prosper. just to \"pew pew\". that's not what we want.because it is fun. as you've obviously not read this or other threads about this issue, i'm not surprised you've missed this. the fact is that people who live in low/no-sec do run missions in high sec. they do this because it's the best, quickest and safest way to make isk. this is what is wrong with the situation!the problem with your view is that you want the pvp parts and the pve parts of the game to be separate. i.e you stay in high sec you don't have to pvp. if you want to pvp you go to low sec or nul sec. the point those supporting this thread are trying to make is that in eve, the pvp and the pve sides of the game are intertwined and completely dependant on each other. they should not be separate. they should not be optional."
"man, are people still on about this?.......you guys do know that ccp isn't going to move level 4's out of high sec right? people have been wrongfully on about this for years. the most they might do is nerf their payouts unnecessarily..... again."
"well, it's a good thing you don't have a clue about what ccp will and won't do then, innit?"
"and that is exactly where i think you people go wrong. what makes eve so strong imho is that it gives so many options. you can do missions in safety in highsec, you can do missions mixed with pvp in lowsec admittedly noone does it, but that is not due to highsec being too strong, it is due to lowsec being too weak, you can just pvp. you can get your thrills or you can relax. has worked perfectly fine in the three years i play now, why should it not work anymore all of a sudden?and seriously, if they just move the current highsec missions to lowsec, the isk flow will be seriously upset. direct isk earnings will be much lower due to people not running l4s at all or people using t2 crap instead of pimp fits. at the same time, the amount of resellers will go up quite steeply as people will turn towards that with their highsec iskies, since mining is boring at least to just about every serious mission runner i know and lowsec isn't attractive. not to mention the utter value crash on lp and deadspace stuff.and if you really think that it would not cause a lot of players to cancel their sub, you are out of your mind. like it or not, l4 missions in hgihsec are the very lifeblood for a large part of the playerbase. those who enjoy pew pew, but do not have the time for pvp influences, or do not enjoy hurting other players while blowing stuff up. and even if eve was originally developed by asshats for asshats, the majority of its population these days is decent people with a live and let live attitude. and eve is and should remain a place for both you and them."
"wtf dbl post"
"we'll see who has the clue in six months when the missions are still in high sec and virtually unchanged. cheers troll."
"but it's not perfect. it's not even true. you can't do just the things you want. in the current climate, and barring extreme luck, it's impossible to survive on just pvp. you need additional income, and that's where level 4 missions become mandatory. yes, mandatory. if you don't own great space you are better off running level 4 missions than anything else. this is why they need to be nerfed. ccp have themselves said that \"as soon as something becomes mandatory, it gets nerfed\". this is now true of level 4 missions. personally, i feel that such a move would benefit the market. the market is screwed up right now, and a part of that is because people have too much isk. much, if not most, of that isk come from level 4 mission running. take away that isk faucet and the market will stabilize. eve is, was and always will be a place for a multitude of playstyles. the problem arises when the playstyles are separated. then you might as well play different games. all playstyles should be mixed up in equal fashion. this is why i support a rework of the pve system to make it more in line with pvp. this is why i support a general nerf of high sec rewards to reward the players who take additional risks without messing up the economy. a nerf of high sec, and especially level 4 missions, is needed for the betterment of the game. it will not bring in a hundred thousand wow-kiddies who wants to play eve - the massively online single player game, but it will retain the old players, keep the game in a niche, and make sure it survives for years to come, with a steady but slow growth as it has done since it started."
"so it's a guessing game, huh? you getting nervous that ccp might actually wake up and smell the coffee?who's posts have provided more content in this thread? yours or mine? see ya, troll."
"no nervousness here. sensing a little desperation on your part with the way your posting the hell out of this thread though. oh, i'll freely give you that one. you're definitely a quantity over quality kinda guy.laters."
"i always get the last word in when bantering with useless carebears.btw, how many people in your corp? where are you located? are you all active?"
"meh. the retort originally here was a little over the top. you haven't been that poor of a sport. or, for that matter deserve that much of my effort.just moving on.oh, and for everyone else, yeah, no support."
"no, he want pvp and pve to stay balanced, you and your friends want pvp to dominate everything. you think pvp will dominate everything and no one will leave as pvp is wonderful. but there is a good percentage of people that think that pvp is something that add spice to the game but that is not the only thing to do in the game. as soon as you make it the only thing to do a percentage of them will let the account terminate. no emo rage quit, simply they will stop resubscribing and maybe check in 6 month or a year if something is changed or simply forget the game. you are willing to gamble that the game will survive to the kind of changes asked in this thread, i doubt ccp would."
"in any climate it is impossible to survive only on pvp if you aren't lucky and very competent.pvp don't produce anything.the rewards from pvp are always taken from another player. what produce new riches are the pve activities:ratting, mission, mining, moon mining, npc trading all the rest, included building stuff and trade with players, shuffle resources around but don't produce any new resources. think about that before asking for the removal or heavy nerf of one of the resurce creating activities."
"itt <-1.9 ers wants to do missions on a serious note, i don't think the lvl4 missions are meant to be \"newbie\" stuff or all of highsec to be \"newbie\" area, as some like to stay in highsec for all of their industrial/trading/missioning lives. removing this would be removing a way to play the game for some, which could make them lose interest and create a massive footbullet for ccp. good luck getting it through."
"no, i don't want that. i want pvp to be a constant force in this pvp game, yes, but i would like additional options for industrialists to hurt their opponent without pew pew. what i definately do not want is a game where pvpers are at one spot and pvers on another, and never the twain shall meet. it needs to be mixed up, otherwise neither pvp or pve has any point. well, adding spice is what pvp should do. however, in high sec it can't, as even the war system can't make anyone pvp unless they feel like it. that's consentual pvp, and in this game we're supposed to have non consentual pvp. for the record, though, as i've repeatedly stated, i am not in favor of moving level 4s and level 3s to low sec. that would do absolutely nothing imo. instead, i want to see the rewards of high sec drastically reduced. that way, casual players can keep doing what they do, but they have no big impact on the market, and they can't compete with people who put some effort into their gaming. in my opinion it's beyond a gamble. it's a necessity. just as some kind of nerf to nanos was nessecary, a nerf of high sec is too."
"no, but i was arguing against the point that you can do whatever you want in this game and be equally rich. that's simply not true. all i really like doing is pvp, and i can't limit myself to that. i have to do a bunch of tedious stuff to be able to afford pvp. i would never whine about that, though, because that's what gives spice to the pvp.i'm not asking for a nerf of every resource creating activity. just mission running. i am asking for this nerf because the resources generated from mission running for a single player is exponentially bigger than any other source in the game. this includes activities where the player has gone through a lot of effort to ensure his income, like holding nul-sec space. resources should be generated on the frontier regions - i.e. unsafe space - then brought to and traded in high sec. high sec should be pretty much free of resources. this has rp reasons as well as game mechanic reasons. there should be no rats, no ore and no missions, except courier missions. i realise this would go too far nerfing new players, so as a compromise the nerf should hit experienced players, i.e. level 4 mission runners."
"what are you smoking dude? i live in empire. i do l4s for fun. i make money from building and trading. the income potential from the latter so outweighs the income potential from the former that it isn't even funny.everybody seems to think that l4 missions are teh roxxor because the people who fly them get to drive around in a pimped out faction fit bs. here's a clue: they don't have anything else to do with their money.that's right. l4 missions are their \"end game\". i have the equivalent of 100+ cnrs tied up in some stage of production and trading right now. so do many others. you aren't whining about that, because you don't see it.they are. go mine in 0.0 in a hulk for an hour. run l4 missions for an hour. refine your ore, and refine your loot, then tell me resources aren't generated on the frontier. it's a drop in the bucket, bud.l4 missions in high sec are having no impact on the game whatsoever other than giving people who do not want to pvp something semi-rewarding to do in the game.if you want to force people out of empire, you need to balance it and make it apply to all empire dwellers. in addition to gettting rid of l4s, you'd also need to:ban freighters in high sec.allow a player to have no more than 10 open orders in high sec stations.limit high-sec manufacturing slots to t-1, sub-bs class items only.completely ban pos anchoring in high sec.if you do all that you'd remove the real money making that's going on in high-sec. empire would be a \"starter island\" where you spend your first month or two in the game and then leave. it would also change eve into a different game than it always has been.eve has always been a game where you could live the \"civilized\" life in empire if that's what suits you, or the rough-and-tumble frontier life. if you choose to stay in empire, you are essentially a pve player. you don't develop any pvp skills, but you can end up richly rewarded if you are a long time, dedicated player. that shouldn't change.this is essentially another in a long line of whines about the suicide ganking nerf. it doesn't really seek to solve any real problem in the game, including risk v reward, because trader/builders are rewarded far more richly than l4 missioners on an isk/hour of play basis. it just seeks to get all those cnrs out there where you can grief 'em. i think ccp is smart enough to see through it."
"you have a point with level 4s being their end game how ever sad it might be, but you're otherwise wrong. level 4 running is the roxxors because it equals 0.0 ratting in wealth generating, can be done semi afk and is completely risk free. because of this, many people who live in unsafe space run missions because they are so much easier and more profitable than anything you find in low sec and most of 0.0.and i say it is more than a \"drop in the bucket\". a lot more. this is a matter of contention which only ccp can prove or disprove.but the point is that they do have an impact on the game. they don't live in a bucket. they use the same market as the rest of us. they sell stuff. they buy stuff. this means they are pvping, but only when it pleases them and in a manner that pleases them. meanwhile, those of use not running level 4 missions are getting shafted. this makes running level 4s mandatory to compete unless you have lots of great space, and that's why they need to be nerfed. to hell and back preferrably.all those would be nice, but none are required. nerfing lvl 4s is required. if you'de care to look, you would notice that this issue is much much older than the suicide ganking nerf. it's not a matter of sore egos wanting revenge. it's about game balance."
"pvpers are rarely rich. it's impossible to pvp wihout isk. the tedious stuff you are complaining about doing is doneto earn isk. everybody has to do the tedious stuff it's just that some find it exciting god knows how 90 % of all isk making activities are soooo boring in this game. if ccp make it easier for you to earn isk then this gives you more time to play the game. increasing the 'grind' for isk makes it harder for everybody. not all lvl 4 mission runners are experienced or capable. having 3 or 4 month old players in losec in their shiney new ravens is not good for them-it's good for you. how long do you think it takes for a new player to earn the isk for a raven, fittings and insurance? and he can lose it in a heartbeat in losec. that's a big loss for a 3 month old player to get over and chances are he won't go back to losec. so he will be back to running lvl 3s and have his grind time increased. grinding is bad for all games. ccp even use it as a punishment when they make you grind your sec status back up if you've been naughty.i can understand why you would want 3 month old players in losec with poorly fitted ships spawning lvl 4 missions but i can also understand why ccp keeps lvl 4s in hisec.imo 0.0 needs the buff."
"a 0.0 buff would help and accomplish the same thing, but at the same time just put more money in peoples pockets causing inflation. nerfing hi-sec accomplishes the same balancing act without the inflation."
"yes, but this is the grind you are so vehemently protecting. it doesn't matter where said grind is done. if you are a mission runner who does nothing but run missions, it shouldn't matter what it pays. you play for the missions, so you do them no matter what they pay. if you do care what they pay you aren't really \"a casual player who just wants to run missions\". you are interested in accumulating as much isk as possible in as short a time as possible with as little risk as possible. this isk must be balanced against all other venues of isk making in the game. right now it's completely out of whack.i understand the point you're trying to make. you're saying if it gets harder to make isk, less people will have isk to pvp with. that's bs. if everyone have less isk, everyone starts flying less pimped ships. this means all ships get a purpose, and that everyone can still afford to pvp. the people living in 0.0 will then have a clear advantage over empire dwellers. they can afford the good ships with the good fittings. they have earned this privilage by x'ing up to protect their space. empire dwellers will manage just as well with t1 named fits. to grind missions is a grind. if you hold all forms of grinds as bad for the game, then logically you should oppose mission running. when you run lvl 4's you're not a noob anymore. you are at the top level of pve in the game. i know a noob can do it, but the question is if he really should be doing it. also, it doesn't matter to me at all wether noobs go to low sec in their crap fitted ravens. it's not really fun to kill them, so they might as well come in cruisers. again, in case you missed it, i don't want ccp to move level 4 missions to low sec. i want to keep them in high sec but nerf their rewards by 90%. this isn't done to get people to go to unsafe space. this is to keep the risk/reward balance intact.i'll let you take a wild stab in the dark as to how i make my isk.the guy above me explains why just buffing 0.0 is a bad idea."
"can this thread die now? there is a space in the back of the room just big enough for it....ccp can not, and will not move missions out to 0.0. for those that were around 1.5--2 years ago...they told the player base so...somthing like \"we are not that stupid, to shoot the cash cow.\" so lets stop this and let this idea join the 200+ threads of the same subject...."
"why are you so eager to have this thread die? are you worried that ccp might actually go through with some of the suggestions here and balance their game, and nerf your play style?are you aware that ccp has said a lot of things in the past that is no longer valid? no, this thread needs to continue."
"maybe i dont want to see the numbers drop...you may not have been here 5 years ago when eve first started...3000 players that is 3k not 30k.this idea was shot down before by ccp, for that reason. force paying customers into somthing they dont want to do...and they will leave."
"well then, why are ccp forcing me to pve when all i want to do is to pvp? hell, they force all pvpers to do this crap. have we left? yeah, some of us, but many remained. so will you mission runners.also, times have changed. mission running has become a problem. it generates massive amounts of lag, corrupts the market and skewes risk/reward. these are all problems that could cost a lot more subscriptions than ****ing off a few carebears would."
"its unlikely that the numbers wouold drop. its not like characters that only do missions need much isk."
"that's one way of looking at it i suppose. nerf everybody and increase the grind for isk because it doesn't matter what the rewards are to people who do nothing except run missions. so again 'only casual players run missions' therefore increase everybodys grind. when people look to make isk that's pretty much everybodys mo. denying it would be lying i disagree it's completely out of whack it's about the same as everythig else. looking at the figures for mining in 0.0 , ratting in 0.0, lvl 4 missions in hisec they all seem to average that's average not the best ores, npcs or agents/missions about 20-25 million an hour and, truth be told, none of them are particularly risky. i havn't seen any figures but i would hazard a guess that the highest payouts would be from low sec agents which hardly anybody uses. i wasn't suggesting that people would pvp less tbh. just that the grinding for safe isk makes it more likely. i agree with you on the people in 0.0 should be given an advantage but then again saying empire dwellers will have to make do with t1 fits is an extremely biased view and is probably due to the fact you spend a lot of time there and don't in fact like the people you inhabit it with. now your twisting what i'm saying to suit your own ends. i think you know exactly what i mean when i say 'grinding ' is not good. 90 %. where do you get this figure from? considering we both know that lvl 4 missions , ratting and mining in 0.0 are a piece of **** if you know what you're doing and all of them pay about the same. why do you think a 90% reduction is needed to lv 4 s when the actual risk v reward is only slightly less? losec lvl 4 missions and datacores i suppose?the guy above you is in one of the most powerful 0.0 alliances in eve. they have huge areas of space that they are looking to rent. they want people out of hisec. everybody has their motives max."
"0.0 \"safety\" has to be earned, hisec does not. by that virtue alone 0.0 methods of isk-earning should -vastly- outstrip the hisec ones. it's only safe if huge groups of people band together, spend a ****load of time, effort, and isk into securing the area."
"level 4 mission running rewards are out of whack because they pay just about the same as anything you do in unsafe space. they should pay less. a lot less. the reason for this is that people can run them in more or less absolute safety, something unattainable in low sec and 0.0. if high sec level 4 running should remain as the number 1 source of isk farming in the game that's what it is right now. i'd say more people run level 4s than any ratting and mining going on in low- and nul-sec. it will lead to a continued influx of players into high sec. this is bad for the system load and bad for the game. it's imbalanced, pure and simple.i don't think it's extremely biased of me to say that people who wish to remain in complete safty should have almost completely no rewards. it's not biased mainly because i'm one of the ones living in high sec. 90% seems about right to me, but i'll admit the figure is right out of my ass, much like other figures banded around in this thread. 90% is also the approximate cut in rewards that would occur if my wich of the removal of bounties and loot would come true.actually, high sec level 4 missions, and nothing else./edit: i've suicide ganked a few times these last few weeks as i thought i might as well cash in on my sec status before the nerf. got a domi control tower, 4 hulks and assorted mods. failed a few times too. missed a caldari control tower and some other stuff because some guy managed to tank my overheated torp raven for 15 seconds when concord finished me off  and i missed a dg control tower when it blew up. if that's your attitude this discussion is pointless, as every poster in it is being dishonest and self serving. i chose not to see it that way, as it's not true for me. i'm arguing for a complete nerf of my primary source of income, because i think it would be good for the game."
"i pretty much covered the risks and rewards in 0.0, losec and empire in my previous post so we will agree to differ. there are still players who will go to 0.0 because it's supposedly the 'end game' and want excitement. this game is still attracting the type of player who likes a bit more risk and adversity and i don't think that any of these type of player would change their mind just because it's easier to earn isk in hisec. yet again your talking about carebears. your attempts to get at 'carebears' by nefing their income would have a negative effect on more people than just the 'carebears.' i think your passion for nerfing 'carebears' and your self professed hatred for them is clouding your judgement.and the reason you run hisec lvl 4s is because you are looking for the fastest, safest, most lucraive way to make isk. you are looking to reduce your grind time so that you can play the game but call for anyone in empire to have their grind time increased. if that's your attitude this discussion is pointless, as every poster in it is being dishonest and self serving. i chose not to see it that way, as it's not true for me. i'm arguing for a complete nerf of my primary source of income, because i think it would be good for the game.you have 2 acounts and have been playing for 18 months, if you have been clever you already have enough isk to last you for years. this nerf would have a minimal negative effect on you. your dislike of carebears is so intense that you would cut off your nose to spite your face.....and i'm just a whiney carebear who's only been playing for 3 months i suppose. we will never see eye to eye max. peace."
"yours an mine opinion on what is a reasonable change seem to be different as much as yours and mine opinion on the quantity of spice needed to make good food.my impression is that your opinion is that some kilo of pepper will make any food better. your constant hammering on \"high sec rewards drastically reduced\" don't speak of some adjustment but of someone thinking that cutting them to half is too little. you seem to forget that the players need to get that first bs and that spending months climbing the ships progression, while at the same time you are spending lots of isk for the skillbooks, will deter most new players. no game can survive on the veteran players alone."
"they can always... you know... go into low sec or 0.0 if they want that bs? i hear it's not as dangerous out there as some try to make out."
"hi sencnes./signed"
"tech lab needs to stay.oh, and do we really need dev blogs about such puny things when there's a game to be fixed?"
"um, and i also support these issues <3"
"tech lab definitely needs to stay.it's one of the only forums i regularly visit.dont kill the tech lab ccp"
"why the hell would ccp want to get rid of tech lab, if they don't want third party api development then they might as well turn off api..100% supported."
"hello all,i've put a lot of thought into this matter, and here's what i've come up with:the r&d companies will have another button in their stations that is sort of a clinic, and maybe also with the major combat corporations. in this clinic, you can convert one form of 'livestock' into another, at a cost of both time and isk.now, as the gallente i am, i manage to capture some slaves from *cough*blowing up an amarr transport*cough*. being that i want to set them free, i take them to the clinic and start training them in a new life.first, vitoc is some insidious stuff, and only a certain percentage are released from it's grasp every time period day, etc, in the same way as with salvaging. those that are freed are turned into freed slaves.next, i take them through school to help them relearn about the basics of living. after this step again randomized, and costing isk and time, they become tourists.next, i choose a career path for them, and some of them may be more apt to certain paths randomized, although you might be able to do some brain scans to find out which neural path they're most apt to take. i can choose to turn them into a scientist, a soldier, an exotic dancer, a janitor, etc.now that they have a role, i can equip them to special slots on my ship. these people will give the ship a *slight* bonus in the forms of 1/2/3% per field, and the size of the ship will determine the crew compliment. soldiers might give a bonus to damage, exotic dancers might give a 1% general bonus to other crewmembers, scientists might give a bonus to targeting range or salvage chance, etc.the possibilities are endless. also, through conditioning on an amarr/crapdari station, they can be converted back into slaves, then to elite slaves. this opens up a whole new market on 'livestock reformers', and there could even be skills that affect this."
"\"oh hi guys, your freed just chill out in my cargo hold\"<travels through gallente space>\"just kidding your slaves again fofofo\"it's a one-way street otherwise it will be abused. i think that making both changes possible but only allowing a change once is too complicated. how does one determine the original state of an object? why is this exotic dancer different from that exotic dancer? free slaves is ok, but you can't have both for this reason."
"approving the principle"
"sounds like a good idea.also, hardin has proposed that this idea is brought onto the agenda for the meeting on the 17th of august."
"/signed"
"we definitely need more rigs and a boost for the underused ones. you're ideas on how to improve them are also very well thought out, while reading them i saw several new ones i'd love to use. as a rig producer and user i wholeheartedly support your ideas."
"definately good ideas for discussion and esculation!you touched upong the t1/t2 rig problem ie, why t2 rigs are under-utilised. the current situation where two t1 rigs since zero stacking pens are better than 1 t2 rig for less cal in some casesis frankly crazy. this situation, coupled with extremely vast differences in build costs between a t1 rig and t2 variety, means most t2 are never built and used at all.take care,arithron"
"our drones need love."
"i have had this issue as well and it would be nice if there were a fix/ skill/mod etc to eliminate this if its a feature. but some feedback would be nice to have/"
"i'll only support this if asteroid belts get the same treatment.mined the veldspar out of existance? time to move on to another mining spot until it's regrown."
"really or would that just be bobs pos people and other current players on the pos scene? knowing there's a chance to find a high end moon no-one knows about and possibly mine it for a while before the world comes crashing in would serve to bring many more corporations out to 0.0 trying their luck.right now there's a finite amount of valuable moons, people know where they are and know whether or not they have a chance in hell of taking them, most of them stay on the same few hands and as a result the prices skyrocket."
"if you were to do this, youd have to add more rare moons,if its random distribution, how many good moons are going to wind up unfound, sitting in backwater systems that no one goes near,your not going to find more than 1 or 2 0.0 populations that will keep going out and scanning every friggin moon to see if something valuable has popped up,or theyll write a macro to do it, and general discussion will explode again."
"i agree with the op on all points.give us smaller alliance's a chance to get some isk even in providance.untill we are booted from the moon that is."
"i do not support making moon minerals moving about in any random or any other manner. it just doesn't seem to make sense to me. however, that said, i doubt that ccp will ever hurt the uber-alliance \"isk printers\" but i will repeat myself and say that at a minimum, moon mining needs to be opened up all the way to 0.5 and 0.6 systems. sure those moons are crappy but they will help out some of the small research corps.side note perhaps a troll: the absolute vehement opposition to any moon mining changes by the uber-alliances really points to them as the true \"carebears\" who, once they place their pos, want to forever just rake in billions and billions of isk for no effort."
"a moon mining pos, like any pos, still needs to be defended and it's not guaranteed that you have it forever. one cannot say there is no effort involved. an alliance that puts no effort into their moon mining loses their moons.however, i do agree it is disheartening that practically all moons have been identified and will never change under the current system, that is. but such is the nature of exploration. once the features have been discovered, in this case the locations of valuable moons, there is nothing left to find.edit: added italics to clarify my position"
"stupid idea. some things should be static so people can fight over them, that's what eve is all about.not supported"
"the idea i posted is just something that popped out of my head. it isn't about dividing the wealth because in rl the biggest countries hold the most resources and have the most money to spend, there is nothing wrong with that. in eve things are ok as they are now. but i do think that moon mining and sov holding should be split up. right now you got one structure, a pos at a moon, that does all tasks at once and that needs to be split up i think."
"yeah, those damn paupers from switzerland, monacco, austria, lichtenstein and the vatican etc.etc. sure don't have two pennies to rub together."
"well, i'm hearing a lot of dissent against this idea by individual members of goonfleet. what i'd like to hear is what the two goonfleet csm's have to say on this issue as if this gets onto the csm agenda then their positions on the issue are what's going to matter. likewise, the positions of the other members of the csm on this issue.getting the arguements hammered out here will definately help save time during the csm meeting as most points will have already been covered leaving it to be a simple vote then.also, knowing the positions of the csm members would be helpful to various interest groups as they'll know who they need to convince of the strength of their case to get an idea raised/dropped."
"hehe, from your posting history one cannot deny...you exist to vote!"
"for me, the bottom line is twofold for you goons, that means 2 parts 1 - keep all moon-mining static. there is no appreciable value to the game in making them random as stated by various folk in this thread.2 - open moon-mining up to and including 0.6 systems. granted, these moons may not be worth much but it there is no viable reason these moons should not be mined as all the data on them is already in-game.-------------------------side note: i still find it funny how defensive the big 0.0 alliances get when anyone even mentions how foolishly unballanced their private isk-printing moons are to the game. but seriously, maybe what needs to be looked into is makeing the top 4 moon-materials only produce 50% or 33% of the lower end moons?note: i gave this a thumbs up mark as i believe this does need to be discussed in the csm meeting but i do not support moons being mined-out or the materials being moved randomly. eve is not that old of a game and, in my opinion, it would probably take hundreds of years to actually exhaust a planetoid's resources."
"sorry, that was just staring at me, mocking me.high-sec moon mining is also a terrible idea. you would think it would open up these \"isk-printers\" to more people, but think about it for a second. who lives in empire? most of the game. where is it \"foolishly\" easier to make money? empire. what do you think will happen when the capital-holding rich get a whiff of new moons, however low in value, now open to them? if you say anything but \"snatch every damn one up in the span of about 2 weeks\" you are an idiot.and let's not even begin to talk about how that affects empire space. suddenly you have deathstars in the middle of a \"pve-only\" area.the only result of this plan is a strengthened status quo and what may as well be an oligopoly for you pubbie scum, this means economic dominance by a select few companies who will compete with one another until either a one company goes bankrupt, or b the two companies come to an agreement and gouge the **** out of prices.ps: moons are still not isk-printers. please see prior posts."
"i like this omg i'm supporting an ank thread:2 mission pay-out in low-sec and 0.0 needs improvement3 module loot has a negative impact on the economy by making t1 production obsolete and injecting too many minerals into the economy7 level 4 missions in their current form do not belong in high-security spacethe rest is ok, but won't really matter much, there's only so much you can do to make missions unpredictable they are just scripted boring events tbhi see alot of people who mistakenly think that pirates want more targets. no, this is no true, pirates and ccp both want more inhabitants into low-sec and null-sec space. i don't want waves of enemy tech 1 fit caracals and drakes, do you know how boring that is to shoot? we want corps to move in, corps to kill us and force us out of existance, but we want more interaction. more interaction = more player-driven fun and that is what eve is created about.from point #7 you will get a lot of whiners saying blah blah i just casually play or whatever. missions will still be kept but their rewards need to be balanced or they need to be changed drastically ie perhaps moved out of high sec space ccp wants people to be encouraged to leave high-security space, not forced. there is no reason why a casual player can't have enjoyment out of level 3 missions and i don't see why eve would suck just because it takes a few more months to kit out your faction cnr carebear machine.if you can make as much as doing a level 4 as ratting in the best 0.0 and by far more than ratting in low-security space, then how is that encouraging people to move out? or encouraging people to form up into groups and take on bigger challenges? there will be a lot of people who will whine and quit over this, but good riddance, eve is a mmorpg and has no room for solo players that refuse all contact with other players. go play diablo."
"so wait, you wouldn't have one-size-fits-all ubermissionsetups that could blow through anything quickly? people might have to adapt? how exactly is this bad?"
"excellent ideas proposed here - i run a lot of level 4's in highsec, and the main reason i don't do the lowsec/0.0 missions is because i have to take in a ship that can't do pvp, in order to survive/complete the mission. changing missions to have less npc's with abilities nearer to player ships would help this a lot, and it just makes sense i'm going to post another idea i had to reduce the rift between mission and pvp ships - mission runners will definitely be more interested in lowsec missions if we can narrow this gap imho."
"without reading past the opening posts, i can say i agree with all the points. one exception is moving l4 missions to lowsec. but i agree with your reasoning on that point also. the other improvements will take missions to the desired state and no move will be needed."
"definately. making pve fun would be a great move for eve. pve in eve atm isn't fun. it's just same-ol' same-ol', and it's too damned predictable. needing to scramble your mission objective, being able to ecm the rats, having the rats act in a more intelligent manner, all these would be great.i'm not sure i agree here. we don't want to make mission running in low-sec or 0.0 into the new \"it\" profession. it should be an option, not mandatory. i think a general nerf of rewards in high sec is a much better approach.yes, definately. remove all loot drops from missions. it's a first step in the reward nerf.don't know about this one as i've yet to try factional warfare. i'm sure it's an issue, tho.uhm, there are mining missions? seriously though, these could just as well be scrapped. they are useless in their current form.a problem for sure, as it leads to the mission hubs we have today. making it a more dynamic system where agents continuously move you around as you progress through their missions would make the whole system a lot more fun and a lot easier on the system.absolutely right. in their current form level 4 missions don't belong in high sec. if the missions are to remain as they are when it comes to rewards etc, they need to be moved into low sec and 0.0. a better option is, of course, to alter the missions so they aren't quite as rewarding as they are today. personally i figure a complete removal of bounties and loot would go a long way towards balancing them. lps, salvage and mission rewards can remain.dunno how you would fix this, unless you build something into fw or expand it somehow."
"your points / my thoughts:1 great idea. unfortunately, ccp has been trying this for years. i don't see them suddenly getting good at it, in spite of what they claim is coming.2 could care less what they do here. why? because they will never make the pay outs high enough for me to have a pve fitted ship sitting in low/no sec for as long as you need to have it there to run a mission. gankers will eventually find you, and you will loose more ships because you are pve fit and they are pvp fit than the missions are worth. it will always be that way. pve and no/low sec imo just don't go togther. more power to the people who can manage it, but not this player. low/no sec is for pvp, and that is the way it should stay.3 i think this is a great idea as long as it works specifically like this: illiminate t1 loot from the tables and have the same amount of named loot drop.4 can't comment here. i don't run fw missions. fw, as a whole, really doesn't do much for me anyway.5 absolutely agree. mining mission improvments/experiments could lead to an overall improvment of the base mining process that has been needed for years anyway.6 this is not the answer. ccp simply needs to improve the functionality of eve to accomodate the load. why should the player base have to make sacrifices/changes because ccp can't adapt to our needs?7 absoulte bullshyt. such a move will only serve to diminish eve's playerbase; potentially mortally wounding ccp's income and ability to sustain itself in the long run. why take the chance with such a drastic move? ccp has nerfed high sec mission running income 5 times over the past 18 months. drastically in some cases. mission running level 4's in high sec over two years ago did produce too much isk compaired to the time invested. but, it's not that way anymore. far from it in fact..... leave it alone already.8 neutral. its always been that way. what's the problem?i support that these items get attention under the conditions i listed above."
"1 missions need to be made more dynamic and unpredictablecould be interesting to have the possibility of escalation build into some missions. other possibilities could be: to have optional objectives, giving extra reward.a choice in how to complete the mission, which have effect on the nextfinding a new agent within the mission2 mission pay-out in low-sec and 0.0 needs improvementperhaps make certain good missions only available through low sec agents.3 module loot has a negative impact on the economy by making t1 production obsolete and injecting too many minerals into the economyyes, it does. get rid of tech 1 drops but increase lp and money rewards.4 missions in factional warfare require improvementsmaybe put in npcs from both sides in the missions.5 mining missions require improvementsi don't find them that bad, but there is room for improvement.6 agents are static, resulting in overloaded mission hubs, desire to have agent quality made dynamicthen i would rather prefer quality removed completely.7 level 4 missions in their current form do not belong in high-security spacei think they do. mission running is the biggest isk faucet in the game and as such needs to have unrestricted access for all players. if established players could somehow prevent newcomers to even come near any kind of decent isk producing activity it would hugely widen the gap between those who already have a lot and those who have little. this game design is needed as eve do not have a level/material wealth cap.of course established players will in their own interest often try to promote gimping newcomers and the newcomers will not argue against them as they are not even playing the game yet. luckily ccp has more perspective than that.8 standing is being monopolized by missions no ways to get standing outside of mission running, with the exception of fw standingthis would be nice. especially a way to get out the \"black holes\" when your standing is low beyond repair.i would also like to see agents especially pirate agents that could be found at static hidden complexes."
"i really don't think that i want to own any insecure items in this game, except for maybe prostitutes and grad students.however, i fully support unsecure containers."
"this definately needs tweaking.i don't see the need for seperate containers.just disable auditing by default on all containers.require people to enable auditing on the configuration options for the container.the worst part of this problem is that a failed attempt to repackage the container makes a new entry into the log: a pre-mature attempt to repackage the container will force you to wait another 3 weeks.that and we need the option to export the logs as the in-game viewer just doesn't cut it."
"yeah, a no-log station container to sort your stuff with without locking it down for two weeks would be extremely convenient."
"definately a good idea, i know i've got a lot of secure containers dotted around various personal hangers from assorted moves. like it was said earlier, this can't be good for the database having to keep track of both the container and the associated logs for every single one of these, especially when you should be the only person with access to your own hanger and so have no need for the auditing function for things stored there."
"wow. i must not have very much stuff compaired to you guys.... i get by with general frieght containers. i feel so poor now..... still. some bigger ones would be nice.support."
"it's more the fact that the secure containers tend to be cheaper than an unsecured container of the same size. either that or you get more volume usually 10 times as much for the same money by going secure."
"it would be nice since configuration between computers isnt even standardized i cant log into two computers and have it not lock my items."
"supporting this now that my main is back online.perhaps once the 1.1 testing is done ccp could put this proposal on either sisi or multiplicity for some testing."
"beautiful and simple. totally agree. makes sense and is internally consistent with the other mechanics of the game re: ability to activate modules in warp.drones could simply \"lose signal\" to the drone carrier due to warp interference for the duration of the mwd maneuver, then reacquire it as soon as the mwd de-cycles.i'd like to see the base ship speed rebalancing that's occurring on sisi make it to tq, simply because it makes sense.as a final note, the whole orbiting-tracking thing is broken and makes no sense, from a real world perspective. if you're standing on the edge of a moving carousel pointing a gun towards the center of it, you don't need to adjust your aim as it carries you around the edge. of course that's an entirely different can of worms."
"sounds more reasonable than the alternative./signed"
"i support this change. level four missions in high security space has no risk at all!"
"while i understand what your trying to achieve their are significant problems to doing it that don't allow me to support a change at the moment.first, low sec and null sec don't have a hell of a lot of locations to run missions in. so you are either in an alliance that owns that mission hub or your not running missions in low sec or null sec.second, if .0 ratting is even closely similar to lvl 4 missions in high sec why isn't lvl 4 mission in .0 that much better than ratting belts in high sec? fix that not nerf high sec. that will give people incentive to leave high sec instead of forcing them to leave high sec. if you force them to do anything they will just quit. if you entice them to head to .0 with greater rewards then you give them an option of staying where they are or moving to riskier area's for higher rewards. casual players will probably stay in high sec but the hard core mission runners probably won't. then you put the people that generate insane sums of income in harms way without nerfing the crap out of the casual player.i would support a complete removal of loot drops from npc's as long as all factions had lp stores and all factions had comparable loot. this means you can buy faction, deadspace, and officer modules from a factions using tags looted from missions. this will significantly reduce the amount of minerals and modules sold on the market, making mining, manufacturing, and trading much more valuable but lowering the prices of the uber modules while giving those same casual players access to equipment they can sell or use. yes this will be the new farm but it already is a farm of sorts isn't it? not to mention it could significantly increase the \"target\" status of high sec mission runners, for their tags and the old reasons, while increasing their risk of getting ninja looted.as pointed out by others, if you limit the total number of missions an agent can give in a day then you will have all those missions done before half the player base log on for the first time. limiting the number of missions a player can run is unrealistic simply because no one else has a true limit to the number of roids they can mine, belt rats they can kill, or players they can gank. it might be regulated more but its not completely limited.nerfing bounties or payouts for high sec is again forcing characters to go to low sec and null sec when those area's should be greatly boosted instead.no where does ccp state that eve requires players to play as a group, engage in pvp, or do anything at all for that matter. a player could pay a subscription just to chat it up with folks in the noob channel if thats what they want to do. so where people get this idea from that ccp wants eve to be a pvp centric game i have no idea."
"i would buy the store empty."
"want"
"oh sweet.i belive ccp could make their isk back if they decided to do this."
"i'm all for it."
"supported. alternatively, the ability to set standings to the militia as a whole rather than having to find each and every corp that has joined would work as well."
"...this is one of those things that i would assume would have come in with fw. sometimes ccp makes no sense."
"i remember having a problem with this. i flew in tlf, and corps that were participating in gallente fw were showing as neutral."
"anyone who has dealt a lot with corporation hangars and corp hangar arrays chas knows that when it comes time to stacking items that are thrown in by corpmates without the proper roles can lead to a large waiting time for the items to stack. if you stack the entire hangar in a cha with many items granted it should take time but it may take upwards of 30-45 minutes before the items are unlocked and stacked. during that time the items are unusable and it has to cause major lag in other hits to the database as well.what i want to see: maybe an explanation as to why cha's and corp hangars take so much longer to stack than personal hangers with the same number of items. or from others ideas as to how to manage this downtime. examples: a timer, progress meter, an option for the cha to not have to check permissions for each item in each hangar for each person etc.edit: so my brain wasn't 100% there when i typed it at first and spelled hangar hanger, my bad."
"wut? i havent seen any hangers in this game."
"definitely an exploit in my opinion."
"any method of dodging wardecs should be considered an exploit, or at least a bug and should be eliminated."
"instead of the currently proposed nerfs to suicide ganking, why not just let players join concord?crimial flag makes gankers fair game to concord membershave the npc concord scramble more slowly, and make them possible though difficult to evade. players who join concord would get instant kill rights no podding on criminally flagged players. that would include both gankers and \"flippers\".collecting loot from ganked wrecks flags you.your buddy in the hauler can try to snatch and run, but that will flag him just like stealing from any can. concord players could blast him.ganked players can collect their loot without getting flaggedconcord players secure the area until the ganked player can return and collect what's left of his stuff.concord pays automatic bountiesthese would be based on the ship type of the criminal. bs at the top, frig at the bottom, just like rat bounties.this would do a couple of things. it would give combat pilots another progression path i'm going to write about progression paths in another post after mission running other than pirating, fw, and 0.0. it would also put a lot more risk in being a high-sec criminal without turning empire into \"hello kitty carebear island\". it might even make empire fun. imagine that."
"make it possible for 'gankers' to evade concord.ok.lets you kill 'flippers'. not ok.i assume you mean suicide gankers."
"there really wouldn't be \"suicide gankers\" anymore, cause it wouldn't necessarily be suicide. it would just be really risky, especially if there were lots of \"cops\" around.and why not let a \"law enforcement\" player kill a \"flipper\"? it's a criminal activity. if you're going to do \"crime\", better make sure there are no \"cops\" around, or at least make sure you have enough backup that you figure you can kill them and get away."
"because it's not a serious enough crime to warrant losing your ship."
"no? what happens to the newb miner who tries to take their stuff back? i'm guessing they're about to lose their ship.pretty hypocritical to say that the flipper shouldn't be at the same risk. if it's \"not serious enough to warrant losing your ship\" it shouldn't flag you at all. should just incur a minor sec status hit."
"holy crap i would totally join concord and just cruise around doing highsec pvp vs anyone who is flagged or who has a very low sec status. it would be just like being in a faction navy, except your enemy faction are people who are flagged or have low sec status. awesome.edit: and i could go into lowsec too and kill pirates without getting a sec hit or activating gate guns. so awesome. screw the bounty hunter crap. i want this."
"not supported.not because i don't like the idea, but because this idea hasn't really been thought through thoroughly before being posted. i assume that you've basically just thrown your thoughts down without thinking through all the repercussions of what your idea would do to large portions of the eve playerbase with this one hit pirates hard and also with your other idea that you've proposed effectively completely eliminate mission running as a playstyle as it's obvious that you haven't consulted anyone else on these ideas by how rough they are.for such a major change in the games direction that you're proposing you'd need to have hammered all the flaws out of them on the f&i board at least by taking in what other players have to say about your ideas and using their feedback to eliminate the bits that would be a terrible idea. only then should it be brought to this board in fine detail as to what your proposal actually is.having said that, i seriously doubt that you're going to get much support for these proposed changes, no matter how much polish is applied as should they go through, then the game we'd be playing just wouldn't be eve anymore."
"hmmm... i read the section description and i didn't see anything about going through the house select sub-committee before bring an idea to the floor.what i've posted here are just alternatives to all of the \"move l4s to low sec\" proposals i've seen, which i think is an awful idea. if you do that, you might just as well get rid of them. you're not going to see 180 players running missions in a .3 system on a saturday night. at least my proposals give players who don't want to pirate or move to 0.0 a way to make money that's actually viable. running missions in low sec isn't, but those proposing that they be moved there know that. they're just looking for more juicy gank-targets."
"not really if someone is globably flagged they are already a target for everyone anyway. in hi-sec the uber concord of doom just kill you before anyone else does. having players involved would open up the chance to beat concord if concord players go into low sec and shoot blinky pirates they are just like nomral people only they get paid to do it and thats a bad thing how. yes because me doing my non-illegal activties in my lovely missions need to fear concord. its an idea that needs work and alot of trail and error but the one area it will have major issue which you somehow failed to point out is factional warfare minmatar shot a concord station after all .on the thinking it out side to make sure concord dosn't go over board simple say concord players can only collect bounites in 0.1's or above. and simple standing requiements prevent everyone from joining from day one."
"did you read the description for the other forums as well? especially in light of the dev blog on the upcoming changes to the forums?this forumcurrent description - to raise topics for the attention of the council of stellar management and further election discussions.new description - a platform for players to bring topics to the attention of the council of stellar management.features and ideas discussion forumcurrent description - share your game-related features and ideas with the developers and the rest of the community.new description - get feedback on your game-related ideas and suggestions from our developers and the rest of the community.-----so, if you want feedback on your ideas for game-related changes which of the two, by their descriptions, do you think is more appropriate? a forum for feedback or a forum for bringing a completed idea to the attention of the csm with a view to getting them to present that idea to ccp?"
"it would certainly achieve the \"get more players to go to low-sec\" objective. it's just that they'd be pvp fit when they go, and looking to make some money while kicking some ass. perhaps that's not the \"boost low sec\" that some have in mind.it would be really great to see half the mission runners in motsu say \"screw this, did you see the bounties that concord pays? where do i buy a warp scrambler?\" and then see them head for rancer."
"looks to me like they overlap each other 100%, except for the fact that this forum is for any idea that you'd like the csm to consider, and the f&i forum is for features discussions specifically. nothing there about the f&i forum being like a sub-committee for hashing out ideas before presenting them to the high-and-mighty.it could be that way. you could make it so that ideas in the f&i forum need a certain number of \"thumbs up\" before coming here. ain't that way though. i see lots of ideas posted here that were never posted in the f&i. i see some of my ideas posted here that i did post in the f&i without attribution. i just figured i'd cut out the middle man."
"i was thinking about this and it seems to me that with this in the game, moving l4s to low-sec might be viable. in a typical low-sec system you'd have the mission runners and miners, the pirates looking to gank or ransom them, and the concord \"cops\" looking to gank the pirates for the bounties.it might just make low-sec secure enough that the mission runners would go, but still provide plenty of pvp with ships that are actually fit for pvp doing most of the fighting.the problem with traditional \"anti-pirating\" is that you go broke. the pirates just plain have more income potential than you do. this would balance that some, and make \"anti-pirating\" a viable alternative."
"/signedi think this would actually balance the game out nicely in high security. suddenly the players now have the ability to enforce the law.reliance on ai has its limitations.but only if this effects high security.kinda pointless for it to spread to areas where concord doesn't patrol."
"it's not, however it does open up a can of worms by giving a gcc to anyone taking from a can that doesn't belong to them. for example, i'm in a mining op with a non-corp fleetmate, he's mining and i'm hauling for him let's say for sake of arguement that he's an alt of one of my corp members. i arrive in belt next to his jetcan with 1 unit of ore in it, he drops his hold into the can and i immediately take the dropped ore into my hauler's hold that way dealing with a large proportion of the risk associated with mining via jetcan. at this point, i'm flagged as hostile as i've just taken stuff from his can. he doesn't care as we plan to split the ore once the op is complete, i'm just taking it back to station.however, under his idea, i'm now flagged with a gcc and so a valid target for anyone. i've never flown under a gcc so i don't know what restrictions it places you under sentry gun fire? can't dock? but the most pressing of these would be that i can now be shot at with no repercussions by anyone simply for playing my part in a legitimate mining operation. oh, and i mistyped in my other post, meant to say miners, not pirates. this would actually make pirates lives a lot easier. sorry, we seem to have crossed wires. this idea was the one i was on about when i said it eliminates mission running as a profession. basically he advocates the complete removal of lvl 4 & 5 missions and capping people at a maximum of 100 lvl 3 missions over the entire course of their eve career."
"understandable, unfortunately with the lines being so blurred between the two forums it does make it difficult to know sometimes whether an idea would be better suited here or in f&i. the forums could definately use a lot more organisation. ideally you'd want to post an idea for discussion on f&i, then provide a thread here for people to indicate whether they think the idea is strong enough to warrent going into game. so basically, for the two threads, they'd post here if they supported or post on the f&i discussion thread if they were opposed while providing constructive feedback on how to improve the idea.however, that's a completely seperate issue, which i believe already has at least two seperate threads on this forum."
"not exactly. yes, getting aggression flagged for taking from a jc that was out-of-corp but in-fleet would have to be fixed it really should be fixed anyway. but stealing wouldn't give you a gcc and make you a target for anyone under my proposal. i would only turn you \"flashy red\" to those players who signed up to be \"law enforcement\" by joining concord. it would probably be on the same timer as the standard agression timer 15 minutes. if you can steal and evade law enforcement till the timer ran out, you're clear.stealing wouldn't cause the npc concord to scramble same as now it would just flag you to concord players. ganking someone in high sec would both flag you and cause the npc concord to scramble same as now. difference would be that the npc concord would be slower to arrive and possible to evade, and would really only serve as back-up to concord players.players who were gcc flagged would be legitmate targets for concord players anywhere they are \"flashy red\" of course. they are to everyone now and would continue to be. the only difference is that players who join concord and choose \"law enforcement\" as a career collect concord bounties for killing them, same as the bounties you collect on npc \"rats\", and like them, based on the ship class killed, but probably larger, due to the increased risk and reduced frequency of kills. it should be scaled so that it pays comparable to l4s if you're good at it.it's just a progression path to entice mission grinders to move beyond l4s and derive their income from pvp, rather than pve.it might, as i said above, provide a nice rebalancing of low-sec so that it became attractive for pveers to go there again. you'd have some cops there, and not just robbers."
"resolve this please. free kug!!!"
"those two are fairly simple, especially considering the also missing ship models:gallente/amarr: rogue drone dominixcaldari/minmatar: thukker typhoonon top of that, for the tier3s we could get:khanid abaddonmordus rokhintaki hyperionand well, minmatar lacks another sidekick faction... now if only ammatar were minmatar based in their combat gear, not amarr based, we could have an ammatar vargur..."
"m<U+FFFD>h khandid <3 missles no lasers love there . you would get an abbadon with 5% em damage for cruises and torps + the 5 % resists . activly making it the perfect level iv mission runner ?"
"meh my paladin can already hit out to 50km with multifrequency"
"hell yes!"
"new ship idea are always fun, and never a bad idea imho.as long as zulupark doesn't get a hold on this and try to \"pre-balance\" them like the black ops disgrace.anywho.... support!"
"well without missile velocity bonus it would only be useful in pvp or for ratting... imho they should actually revamp all the empire faction ships so they get 3 bonuses like their pirate counterparts. fleet pest, navy mega and navy apoc definitely could use the help, cnr would have to get a minor thing as 3rd bonus to not make it overpowered.and then the khanid abaddon could be a real missile spamming armortanker with damage bonus not rof to be different from raven, armor resist bonus and missile velocity bonus."
"the faction bs bonus is +50% hp, check the stats. it makes them ideal for passive tanking, while the pirate ships/marauders might be better off active tanking.also, about the thukker phoon, thukker is already in the game as a t2 producer :p but yeah the rogue drones are the gallente/amarr faction, i have no idea about the caldari/minmatar faction though. it could easily be the misc mercenaries you see in missions."
"/signedit would be great to see some more faction ships.actually come to think of it whats up with jove ships models in the data files? that region is inaccessible but exists and so do the jove ships. would be nice to see those in game too. they could be limited to jove region, couldn't leave it or something."
"while this probably isn't an issue for smaller corps, everyone should be able to see how this would be handy.the \"member details\" screen reached through right click > \"edit member?\" should include a listing not editable, obviously of what character accepted the application of the character being viewed."
"second"
"hey graham - track this:condi:"
"/signed"
"agree, this should be a minor change ccp: get on it!"
"sounds sensible. and perhaps make a note section available at acceptance time - i'm sure plenty of people would make good use of quick notes like \"sponsored by ___\" or \"probation until ___\"."
"there's usually no shooting involved. you can go into someone's mission, speed ahead of them and kill the end guy and then take the mission-critical loot. since you killed the end guy, the loot is rightfully yours and you don't get flagged to the missionrunner. depending on who you ask, this is either an exploit or not an exploit. it is one of those things that you can't defend against, though, and as such i believe it should be deemed an exploit."
"i don't think the rules are at fault here. i don't know why a gm would deny your petition for a mission reset if it's time was about to run out and really, you weren't experienced enough to handle it. i can take a -0.4 hit on standing. there was a time when i couldn't. if you were already running level 4's, to heck with you."
"it would be an exploit if they weren't flagged for theft, because the person accepting the mission owns any wrecks from that mission.however, odds are low that they will be able to find an exploit to bypass the wreck ownership.taking mission specific loot is the same as taking any other loot.deal with it."
"it is against the rules to steal mission sensitive items. it falls under harassment. petition it and gms will take care of it."
"or not as the case was for someone in my corp."
"why the heck would someone want to steal mission sensitive loot when its something you can find all over the place?the idea just seems.... well its just flat brain dead.petition the gm's to deal with it.... there's no reason to change the game for something as pitiful as that.even then... how did they get there in the first place? it's too expensive and time consuming to troll for dead space... you must have fleeted them or something and they took off leaving your fleet or something.granted im grasping for straws but the point is still the same... this is just...stupid.there are far better things to loot.... : o p"
"it's fairly simple...1. eliminate local2. introduce a new revamped constellation channelin this new channel you do not see anyone... but rather you see numbers based on several factors.with a simple selection box...\"show me stats based on standings from...\"1. my player2. my corp3. my alliance4. my militiainside the new constellation channel you see the following numbers based on your selections.1. neutrals2. hostiles 3. friendlies4. outlaws5. war targetseach give a current number based on who is in your constellation.thoughts? changes?"
"eehrr .. some people actually love to talk in local ... .........some of the most fun i've had in eve was while talking in local with other people ....no need to fix local . i just works fine :"
"then keep local as just a chat channel... when you talk, you show up... but otherwise you are hidden."
"imagine how long it would take to find a pvp target. eve is not like other mmo games where you walk into a small dungeon and shoot someone. space is quite large... and what is so bad about local? it helps you find people who might even want to test their strength and agree to a friendly pvp match.just keep the local what it is now and if you don't wanna pvp don't go to 0.0."
"if they will \"remove\" local, a lot of ppl will go to low-sec/.0 .... and i cant imagine, how the hell will smaller alliance defend their space, while they will not be able to se incomers"
"i actually don't mind local myself, i'm just trying to find something to settle the crowds. i think a change could make some new interesting battles, only because i've seen too many failed attempts at good fights when local changes and the cockroaches run like the light just turned on.having a constellation chart showing numbers and standings, would lead to some fun explorations and trackings to find targets."
"only if there was some kind of tool that let you scan in different directions. oh wait..."
"at fanfest last year they said it should up and running by 3rd q this year, well its 3rd q and theres no word on this topic. i would like to know more details about this topic."
"truth is that jita is run on dedicated commodore 64"
"sorry, they picked teh fish tank instead..."
"not just jita whole game running on that console"
"im curious out of complete geekiness. the fact that 40000 people can play on one server at one time is one hell of a feat and i would love to hear about new hardware and how it will change the game."
"hardwere will dont change anythingjust rewrite the sourcode will cos this python dont support multi core server cpu"
"what lag?"
"silly they didnt pick the the fish tank instead, the fish tank is an important part of the super computer. it will be used as the heatsink for the super computer. what better use for a 2000gal7500l tank.for those of you who have no idea about the \"fish tank\", here is some linkage."
"sure, if you count 45 minutes to load grid and another 45 minutes to load ships as 'playing' * * disclaimer - not experienced this myself but enough of the nul-seccers have whined about it here i almost feel like i have"
"/thread"
"or just remove all of them"
"they're fine. people should not be immune to attack while near gates/stations. gatecamps exist to give a disadvantage to the camper in a fight and to stop fast-locking ships from scramming people down in camps at least without remote sensor boosting."
"if you consider around 1000 dps as mnothing good luck :p"
"for real, you can kill pirates by zooming around them in an interceptor while the gate guns hose them if they are solo. they aren't to be underestimated."
"gate guns do maybe 600 effective dps total - i neither support nor am against this but if you are talking ab out it you can at least get your numbers right"
"once those types step dpwn they can not re apply, because this will give other participants with ideas to implament rather then the same dominent direction from the same relected member. unless there is not too many participants comeing is to take on the same challenges then where is this topic headed ?"
"at times in the heat of battle i miss some info just cause i do not look in the screens bottom. especialy when i try to locate friendlies or hostile in my sorounding space. what i propose is a 3-4cm cycle be placed around the mouse cursor split in to two heimpspheres. one showing shield status and one armor. it should have a different shape or color when an armor or shield repairer is on. consider this as a semi transparent piece of info cauge following your mouse movements. after even if we fail to see at some important to us piece of info on screen we all know were our mouse coursor is and such an info carrying object would be a great addition. also it would make sense that this would be a mode depentant addition. meaning it could have other additons when mining or looking in market window and such. be well."
"and this is why i favour a moddable ui. 2% of people would want such a cursor, but to those 2% it'd be very valuable. let them have it, and don't screw with my ui to do it."
"would getting arrested for fui flying under influence void your insurance and will the gate customs do random breathalyzer tests?"
"only if you fly a dreadnought in highsec and mine veldspar with it."
"find me insurence company that insure tankraven that figths terroristsrats."
"it's busted right now. pve pays, and unless you're one of the rare players who achieves financial success through pirating, or a choke-point gate camper in 0.0, pvp costs. there needs to be a professional progression for combat pilots that lets them make a good living at it, and every branch of that progression should lead away from pve and toward pvp. lets face it. eve has no quality pve content for combat pilots. it only gets played 'cause it's an isk grind. the isk should be where the fun is, you shouldn't have to choose between making isk and having fun.here's the progression i have in mind:phase out l4 and l5 missions. make l3 missions limited run.a new combat pilot runs l1 > l2 > l3 x 100 missions. once he has run his 100th l3 mission his agent congratulates him on his progress as a fighter, and explains his options for continuing in the combat pilot profession. they are: law enforcement, bounty hunting, crime/pirating, faction soldiering, mercinary, private soldiering.law enforcementbasically, you join up with concord and hunt down criminally flagged players in empire space. concord pays a bounty for each criminal \"brought to justice\" on a sliding scale based on their ship type and how negative their sec status is. i described this in detail another post. this profession pits you against the \"criminals\".bounty huntingwe already have a thread going about this one, but basically you collect player placed bounties on other players. the mechanics just need to be cleaned up so that it's not readily exploitable.crime/piratingdoesn't need much explaination. you try to victimize other players and evade law enforcement.mercinaryyou join up with a corp that accepts mercinary contracts through the contract system, usually to join an ongoing war between player corporations on one side or another. there are already some good ideas about this one too.faction soldieringyou fight for one of the factions as a \"privateer\". they pay you handsomely in both isk and \"war booty\" for net systems taken and held.private soldieringneed to provide a mechanism by which corps and alliances can automatically pay their soldiers. probably set up a \"pay scale\" and rank system that pays combat pilots for kills based on ship type and their rank within the corp or alliance. make the corp/alliance's pay scale for combat pilots visible, like their tax rate is now. competition is a good thing.the pay scales for the two npc based professions law enforcement, faction soldiering should be set so that they can pay comparable in isk/per hour to what l4s pay now for someone who is good at it. that will set the bar and provide competition for the services of combat pilots and require that those who are paying bounties or trying to attract pilots to their corp or alliance are paying them enough.imagine an eve where you get paid to pvp, and you don't have to resort to mindless npc grinds to fund yourself. let carebearing be for the carebears, and combat pilots get paid to pit their skills against other combat pilots. i want to play that eve. how about you?"
"most of the stuff you mention allready exists .0.0 pvpers make money rattng most of the time = criminal hunting.missions are pve .. nothing to do with pvp ?you can make some good isk ganking haulers ...mercs are allready ingame and pay prety good .faction soldier stuff = mission running.the private soldiering stuff might work , but if corps/alliances really want to help their pvpers they allready do it in the form of cheaper ships ;."
"i was talking about player criminals. ratting is just a mindless grind. and under my proposal, they'd really only be for new players. yep, that's the \"criminal\" profession i spoke of. only difference is you'd have a \"law enforcement\" profession too to balance it out and provide some risk. yep, about the only change i'd recommend is bringing the profession into the contracts system to help facilitate it. no, faction soldiering is factional warfare. right now, it doesn't pay. it should. faction soldiers should get a substantial payout for net systems taken each week. comparable to what they could make running l4s. difference is its primarily pvp based, instead of pve.most alliances do jack for their pvpers while their leadership gets filthy rich, and berate their pilots because they're out ratting all the time instead of pvping. this would make alliances compete based on what they were willing to pay their combat pilots. those who paid well would get more/better. those who paid less... well... you get what you pay for."
"first off, you think pve is not fun and just a grind, however i know a few people who actually enjoy the pve side of things. to phase out pve would basically remove 1 type of player from the game reducing the total number of players and remove a nice target for some of us other people.i tend to feed and make my isk off the mission runners in high and low sec.law enforcement if some one is flashy you can kill them you dont \"need\" to join up with concord to go hunt those who have broken the laws, and you get paid by the loot dropped off these criminals.crime/pirating again already in the game just go do it, why does the game need to tell me it is an option.merc work again a lot of corporations already do this.under private soldiering the person assigned in the alliance to make payouts can check the kb and make the appropriate pay out. this works well as long as the player posts his/her kills, if not they dont get paid their problem.for the changes i did not address, i do not have enough data on them to comment.hay i do play eve where i get paid to pvp and i get paid very well."
"most if not all of these mechanics exists in one way or another.and you can't just yank missions out from under empire pve vets."
"yeah, your 35th \"angel extraviganza\" is edge-of-your-seat thrills, i'll tell 'ya. which is the basic problem with all of the \"move l4s to low sec\" proposals. mission runners are just a mark. if they stay, they belong in high-sec where they are. as i laid it out that profession would be an alternative to the nerfs currently proposed for suicide ganking, and it would provide a real alternative grinding l4s. sounds like you gank mission runners for a living. i agree, it pays, and would pay even more if the \"move l4s to low sec\" whines are heard. we'd have to agree to disagree that that is pvp. i think pvp is trying to kill someone who is also able to kill you. ganking is something different. it pays, but it's not attractive to many folks."
"most of them exist. none of them are really a viable income alternative to l4s, or you would see less people running level 4s and more people doing them. they need a boost, income potential wise.i personally agree strongly that there are some folks who just want to pve and wouldn't pvp no matter how attractive it was. you either need to leave missions alone, or just phase them out. trying to move them out of high-sec will just make the pveers a target, and most of them will refuse to be targets."
"not supportedsee my post in this thread for why."
"well local just works fine imo. carebears can see if enemy's enter system.people that are looking for a fight can go looking for a fight.you can talk about nonsense and have fun in local.you can watch all the pointless smack in local.local might not be realistic now . but so are internetspaceships in general..... don't try to make everything more realistic , the reason why we play games is because its not the same as real life ...."
"i support my idea well its actually ccp's ofc . gratz for that !"
"...and chinese farmers can notice instantly if you enter the system, so you can't hunt them. local isn't perfect, it gives too much information for everybody."
"chinese farmers enter lowsec or 0.0 ?"
"delaying local by 15 seconds is the ulitmate compromise for both sides."
"yes, they do"
"the topic is pretty self-explanatory. things that occured to me as being of benefit:1. currently caldari ships have to choose between shield tank and tackling gear, which always puts them at a disadvantage in pvp. moving the web scrams and warp scrams/disrupters to high slots would allow full tanking ability, but at the cost of dps, which kinda makes sense.2. mission runners could fit one or two of these items and still be able to tank missions sure, they lose a bit of dps, but one slot is no big deal - this might help nudge them into lowsec mission areas, knowing that they might stand more of a chance against mission busters.the warp disruption field in focused mode on the heavy dictor inspired the idea, seems to work well for it. would this make ships too powerful tho? discuss!"
"no support , the current selection of high , medium and low slots is prety well balanced on most ships *ugh ugh tempest ugh ugh* . for instance most amarr frigates only have 2 medium slots , they don't even have a chance at getting a full tackle.if you start moving tackeling gear to the highslots , you're going to get 6x web 2x disruptor destroyer fittings , or worse passive tanked drakes with 6x web and 2x disruptor .....it would need a whole new balancing of highslots and medium slots .besides , the current system just works . frigates that a re tackeling aren't ment to tank . most of the time amor tanking frigates have speed modules in their lowslots ...you can fit a merlin with 1x web , 1x point , 1x mwd , 1x shield extender , 2x od and have a more survivable tackler as most amor tanking frigs ;.and mission runners are not going to use tackeling gear if they can place it in the highslots , they use that for damage. for instance if you have a raven setted up for guiristas missions your just going to get ****d by a pvp fit armegeddon if you can web/disrupt or not...."
"that might actually make destroyers moderately useful. you are, however, forgetting that destroyers can be killed by sneezing on them. also, fun fact! webifiers and disruptors use capacitor! you can't passive tank a drake and still be a tackler in this fashion. it might have 6 webs, but without a mwd you're not going to be webbing much. stick one of those on and see how long it lasts again a bs. even with just the warp disruptors, it's still not as effective as a heavy dictor, so this is not a problem.there's a speed nerf on the way, they might be a little more vulnerable than you think afterwards. think how much more survivable you'd be with all 4 midslots dedicated to shield tanking you mentioned a raven as an example. little is lost by using one of the non-missile slots for a warp disruptor. also, if said armageddon was mission busting solo, it would need a web and warp disrupt in it's high slots to get you, since we're doing this in the hypthetical eve system we're discussing. so thats' two less turrets for it, and yes it's still a lot of dps but it's not quite as dangerous as it used to be."
"not receiving kill rights for pods in highsec is rather silly, i'll agree.i'm curious... did you have a huge bounty or have a low sec status or something?tbh, i would file a bug report about it. if the bug report says that it's an intended feature, then i would continue to ask for change from the csm. if, however, the bug report states that it's a new issue or god forbid a known issue that the gm didn't know about, then i would state such in your petition and ask that the gm give you kill rights."
"should have used a shuttle. autopiloting an implant pod is not smart. i think this is a good mechanic."
"nobody is denying its stupidity. they're just asserting its criminality. since the guy did get concorded afterwards, i should imagine kill rights are also in order."
"this. even stupid people are protected by the legal system. i would have thought a pod kill would result in more than a kill right maybe lasts longer rather than no kill right at all.i noticed before it got deleted that a ccp representative said this was an intended mechanic. any explanation? some rp reason from ccp would change my mind immediately, but common logic points the other way."
"my sec rating is 1.61 and i have no bounties, nor do i engage in criminal acts. i have never been in touch or involved with the agressor, nor were we wardeced etc. this happened two jumps away from jita, while autopiloting a pod back to a system, after driving a ship over there. there were no shuttles available in the system and it didn't fit in the hold, so it is a bit rich to call me stupid because i flew in a pod.however, this is neigher here nor there. this issue relates to me not getting kill rights after after being killed in high sec.the gm maintains that this is an intended feature, though the logic of this entirely escapes me."
"supporting a response from ccp."
"second post in this thread."
"personally, i feel that they would put an end-all to the issue with who's wreck is who's. i would sacrafice dps for salvage drones. and those who don't use them should understand that their wrecks might be salvaged by someone else ... sacrifice the ability to do one thing to do something else as well? sounds like balance to me!"
"not all ships have a drone bay.although personally i'm against any form of wreck ownership."
"not all ships below cruiser, but it's not worth salvaging 'til you are at lev3 missions. and most lev3 missions you are in, at least, a cruiser anyway! unless you can fly t2 frig's ... in that case, why are you doing lev3's anyway?"
"fair point, although i don't think it changes the situation much. people who salvage wrecks that they did not generate would just use the salvage drones as well. the problem lies in the concept of wreck ownership and whether or not it should exist."
"for all sakes in \"fairness/balance\", i'm not trying to tip the scales in how the game is,another round of quotation marks, \"intended to be played\". just the fact that if one is willing to give up dps=time to use salvage drones to clear a room before they leave for the next, while possibly being probed out by a scavenger, makes sense to me. i use dps, or whatever, drones to get the mission done as fast as possible. if i have to sacrifice the quickness i finish a mission by using salvaging drones, so be it.btw, the state of marauders supports this push ..."
"i didn't come up with this, but kinda like the ea trailer but not that strong. others in ships and mods have brought this up too but i didn't see it here. cliff's notes:logistics ship with activation module, 4 bss have link modules. log ship links with bss and creates big superlaserthingy. said superlaser thingy can cause a lot of dmg, maybe enough to make a titan say \"ow wtf mate?\" dread pilots say \"that really hurt i'm out\" and carrier pilots say \"aw hell\"catch is the module sucks all cap and takes maybe 30 seconds to activate. this kinda encourgaes a bit of blobbing but counters \"capitals online\"edit: i've been out of the loop for a bit but if anyone ever played freespace 2, bombers were a cap's nightmare. bombs hurt caps- mucho. just a thought."
"bombs suck in eve. there is currently no reason to use them ever. make them cheaper, better, or both."
"it would be cool for bombs to have a significant impact against capitals, it would also make sbs somewhat more worthwhile"
"i really like all of xttz's ideas they make the titan an actual ship you can fly with the fleet. right now all we see of a titan is them sitting at a pos or warping in seeing a bright light and then the titan is gone. i would love to be on grid in a large fight with a titan in the middle of it wreaking havoc, sounds amazing."
"100% support this!!! why do others have more sp than me?!!! not fair, i want fair><><<<<<<"
"totally support this. it would be worth losing my 75m+ main just to fly around and see all the crap floating in space that nobody has the skill to fly anymore."
"fail logic abounds in this thread, stay tuned"
"let it die, it's a goonpost."
"is the op a stealth whine post vs bob and other aligned t2 cartels?"
"hey goonie op. just thought i would stop by to say hye."
"not hello kitty online, but yeah. there is always the h-petitioning."
"live and let die."
"i'd like an update from ccp about the state of industry in eve.rorqual - is it filling the niche ccp wants ?orca - status report ?mining - is mining in its current incarnation what ccp wants, if not how are they going to change it.a general a roadmap for where they see industry going.its a big part of eve, and its getting neglected.quarterly economics blogs?"
"jade please add..."
"isn't the next expansion about industry?"
"nah i see where you are going. an attempt to preserve yourself from an assault but thankfully there are peeps like me who kill because its just fun,kinda like your alliance. rookies offer nothing worth taking when they get killed for ignoring very clear warnings prior to stealing yet they claim to have not seen the warning and the shooter is just happy to get a kill regardless of profit. it will continue to happen because its fun and the risk is within reason. noobs often think they are the baddest mothers in the valley and they lose a cheap ship because of it. these pilots are why charles darwin sleeps soundly in his grave."
"like i mentioned, it's only a by product. and after thought, yeah it makes sense that cans still have ownership and flagging. you did jettison it yourself, so it is your can.but wrecks shouldn't have ownership at all no matter whose ship it used to be or who killed it in the end. i really think that once a ship gets blown up, the first scavenger who gets there is the rightful owner of whatever his module picks up.if you don't want people taking from the wrecks that you generated, shoot the wrecks and waste their time, or move to .4 or below so you can shoot them. otherwise, scavengers ought to be protected by concord."
"i've supported this for those two above, guns should remain on all structures, and i think the modules that are outside of the shields are the right ones.this is the inherent problem of removing the bubble shield from large structures and why they should stay.i think they should be normal pos guns, no need to nerf defensive firepower. keep cyno jammers at a pos, they exist there now and there's no reason why they shouldn't be able to be defended with a pos. simply restrict jump bridges to sup-capital ships and freighters, keeping defensive capital ships outside of jammed systems."
"well, however you want to do it the point is to make moon pos a target for raiding forces, so shields and guns should just be balanced to that end, that's all. if it's better to simply state it that way and leave the details up to ccp, fine with me.basically planets are for capship sovereignty sieges and moons are for subcap raiding.the cynojammer move may or may not be necessary if you reduce the firepower on pos, but it's been a very highly supported idea to place it away from pos. the capship restriction on jump bridges in cynojammed systems also works, the point simply being that a cynojammer should block all caps, not just enemy ones.an additional idea to make the sieges of planetary structures more interesting would be to place modules at each moon around the planet that must be attacked as part of the siege. a rough idea might look like this:at the reinforcement battle the defender and attacker show up at the planet. there are several modules located at moons around the planet that are supporting the planetary structure, and in order to finally crack the planetary structure some portion of those modules must be disabled - but when disabled they only drop offline for 5-10 minutes. so there's a large battle around the planet with additional battles taking place simultaneously to continuously keep enough of the moon modules disabled to allow the planet fleet to damage the planetary structure."
"lol why can't you guys see any kind of compromise on this stuff?-kelsin always talk about wanting small ship \"disruption\" objective, giving them something to do-goons want 0.0 to be more valuable and less boring stuff like pos set up-jade wants to shake up existing 0.0 powerblocks by making random which space is the best over time to keep the best alliance from sitting in the best spots forever-darus doesn't want all he and goons worked to build to fade b/c of some csm proposal; wants to keep most big traditional elements of sov and 0.0so instead always try to rewrite what is already there, why don't you add something totaly new? why don't you do something like this: - add new resource x. x needs to be valuable and unlike what is now in the game. it worth a lot of money and you always need to gather more and more of it. kindof like moon minerals now, but this is a new resource used for some new purpose. but x only can be got in 0.0.- x cannot be gathered by traditional mining or pos gathering or any other way that is in the game. you have to set up some new structure that is like what kelsin want. you put it up away from pos, and small gangs can attack it and make it stop working for awhile.- x spawns randomly all through space on like 2-3 month period. so maybe for 2-3 month bob has much x, but then a lot of it goes to the north and if bob wants to keep getting it they have to go max damage and fight for it.- x has no effect on sov warfare or moon mining; none of that gets nerfed or made less valuable or any different. x is a new resource and adding it to the game makes 0.0 worth more.so, what can you think off to be x?"
"hey, not bad. that requires some coordination of forces to pull off. i like ideas that require a fleet to break out into sub-units that all work together at the same time to do a job. ya, the only thing i don't like is the inability to set up a shielded staging pos anywhere...maybe say one of the moon pos configurations can be basically what a pos is now, but it still doesn't contribute to sov. so if you set up that kind of deathstar pos, it's not a small gang objective because there's nothing there to disrupt and you wouldn't normally set one up in your own space -- it would really just be used as a staging point in an invasion.i would try to come up with a role for titans that could do the same thing, but you want the staging pos before the cynojammer goes down if you can get it."
"hmm, staging points...there had been a brief discussion of mobile infrastructure at one point - that'd be a very interesting idea - basically a mobile shield generator that could be cyno'd into a deadspace for an invading force to stage from. just prevent it from being brought into anywhere but empty space no moons, asteroid belts, etc. that'd be a pretty cool thing to have at your disposal."
"sweet, sweet progress nice, it separates pos logistics and planet sov. it creates a clear way for logistics to be subject to raiding. moon arrays that power a planetary shield sounds awesome and makes sense. and now removing the bubble shield from some moons seems viable, as changing the role of titans removing ddd prevents a titan from coming in a blowing up a whole pos."
"doomsday could be turned into a focused single-target attack to make it a very powerful anti-capship weapon, and titans could get this staging shield. that'd address a couple issues at once."
"i do like the focused fire ability. make it too expensive to justify one-swatting a battleship, but make it powerful enough to justify using against a capital. putting the titan into siege mode activates the bubble and deactivates the focused ddd.it would by funny if somewhere on the titan there was a giant cartoon offense/defense toggle."
"so it looks like we're heading towards a proposal that covers these:1improvements to sov warfare - planet sov structures supported by moon modules.2moon pos turning to industrial-only, raidable by subcap gangs, somehow protected from ddd either by getting rid of it or building in some invulnerabilty, etc.3staging area shield - either mobile/deployable or new feature of revised titan.anything else that would need to be addressed? i'm sure there's plenty of hashing out to be done regarding raiding of industrial infrastructure, but as a broad topic it seems people can agree it would be good to have."
"can we put some additionally bribery into it somehow to help people get over the hump of the fact that it is new and change is scary? no one is objective about this ****.also, it would be useful to go ahead and write a faq that answers all the easy objections to it that people will throw out without bothering to comprehend the proposal.- write why this isn't capture-the-flag.- explicitly justify why blobbing the individual objectives won't be effective.- explicitly justify why people won't want to use caps for every part of this why caps will focus on the planetary objective and subcaps on the moon objectives- add a step-by-step comparison of the new sov assault process with the old process to show that it doesn't make it take any longer or make it more tedious/boring.- explain why this won't alter the balance between the defender role and the attacker role- explain why this won't make it less profitable to live in 0.0 bonus if it makes it more profitable; see request for additional bribery aboveyou get the idea. it would help make the ensuing discussion be more than a bunch of partisan strawman bull****, maybe.edit: and let fahtim post the op whenever it goes up so half the thread isn't \"hurr you don't even live in 0.0 wtf\". just trying to be pragmatic."
"wording - 2 moon pos turning to logistics/support-only, raidable by sub-cap gangs. take away sovereignty claiming and move more modules outside the control tower shield. possible moon roles: mining/industry, jump bridge, cyno jammer, planetary defense.mention outright that the redesign of sovereignty and the redesign of titans must go hand in hand."
"sounds good to me. i can whip up a draft we can start working on - something straightforward and not too heavy on details to start, and go from there to get something ready for the assembly hall."
"first draft:recommended changes to 0.0this issue focuses on three areas of changes to improve gameplay in 0.0 sovereignty warfare:1 improvements to sovereignty warfarechanging the sov-claiming structure from moon-anchored pos to planet-anchored bases.2 raidable logistics/support infrastructureremove sovereignty-claiming from moon-anchored pos, reduce automated defenses and move most modules outside control tower shield to open them up to attacks by raiding subcap gangs. pos would then be focused on specific non-sov claiming roles such as: mining/industry, jump bridge, cyno jammer, planetary defense.3 invader tools/titan rebalancingto account for the above changes, removal of aoe effect from doomsday device, to be replaced with single-target anti-capship weapon and staging area shield ability.these three areas of change combined are intended to make sovereignty warfare more fun and multi-faceted and provide for better gameplay at the siege level as well as offer tangible raiding objectives for small subcapital gangs.improvements to sovereignty warfarethis change primarily hinges on moving the basis of sovereignty from moon-anchored pos to planet-anchored bases, supported by planetary defense modules anchored at orbiting moons. a new siege mechanic is introduced to make epic battles over these planetary bases more interesting.the planetary basethe planetary bases primary purpose is to establish sovereignty over a solar system. secondary roles could include acting as a fuel depot for pos at moons in orbit around the planet, to ease fueling logistics. additional functions could also be added.when attacked, the planetary base follows much the same path as current pos siege mechanics, with one new addition:upon the expiration of the reinforcement timer, five planetary defense modules anchored at orbiting moons come online. in order for the main fleet to inflict damage on the planetary base, 3 of the 5 pdms must be disabled. when disabled via damage, a pdm will go into a short 5-10 minute downtime to repair itself. once repaired it will come back online and resume supporting the planetary base. thus, attacking forces must continuously suppress the pdms around the base while the main siege force attacks the base itself.the defending force must anchor the pdms, but they are dormant and cannot be targeted until the planetary base exits a reinforcement timer.options for making the pdm mechanic even more interesting include having them govern the heavy guns that defend the planetary base, so that suppressing them deactivates the guns to aid the main siege force.new roles of moon-anchored player owned stations + raidingwith the movement of sovereignty mechanics to planetary bases, moon-anchored pos are free to be refocused as logistics/support facilities, and can be re-balanced to be targets for smaller raiding forces to inflict financial and logistical damage.automated defenses can be downgraded to be on a level consistent with attacks by small to medium size subcapital gangs. facilities at the pos are made vulnerable to attack in a fashion similar to station services, so that raiding forces that can infiltrate enemy territory can inflict financial damage by halting production, research, moon-mining, etc. actual destruction of modules requires the destruction of the control tower itself.invader tools/titan rebalancingto accompany the above changes, a new tool must be added to the arsenal of invading forces and the aoe damage element of the doomsday device must be changed. these two changes can be taken together to give a new tool to the titan in exchange for reducing the power of its signature weapon.in place of the aoe damage element of the doomsday device, it is recommended that the device be changed to a powerful single-target blast designed to be attack enemy capitals and supercaps."
"didn't quite all fitin addition, to provide for increased ability to stage forces in enemy systems prior to sieges, a pos-caliber shield is recommended as a new module for the titan, allowing it to temporarily create a safe zone in empty space to act as a staging ground. with this addition the titan will truly be a mobile battlestation.conclusiontaken together, these changes will improve the fun and variety of warfare in 0.0 space for all levels of force deployment  from the raiding small gang all the way up to the epic siege battle."
"objection: this does nothing about the \"capitals online\" problem. people will just use capitals for taking down the moon-based planetary defense modules in addition to using them to take down the planetary base.the pdms only stay down 5-10 minutes. think about how long it takes you to warp slow-aligning caps around in a laggy fleet fight. you will never get your caps back into position at the planetary base to do damage to it during its window of vulnerability after taking down the pdms. your dreads need to be sitting there ready to go into siege when they get their window of opportunity.also, if you choose to attack the pdms with caps, you risk several negative consequences:if you blob your caps around, then your caps might be bubbled or trapped in siege mode at the pdm during the brief window during which the planetary base is vulnerable.if you foolishly split your caps up among the pdms, your several small groups of caps might get individually blobbed and destroyed by the defender."
"objection: people are just going to blob all the planetary defense modules. noone will spread out.if you take that approach you're going to waste a lot of your dreads's siege cycles and make the process take longer overall.suppose that you need to knock out 3 out of 5 pdms to make the planetary base vulnerable. when incapacitated, the pdm stays down for 10 minutes -- one siege cycle. if you split your forces and coordinate so that they all go down at about the same time, you can get about one full siege cycle of damage in. if your blob takes them down one at a time and it takes 4 minutes for each one, then by the time you've taken down #3, #1 is going to come online in two minutes or so. enjoy your two minutes of siege damage before the base goes invulnerable again."
"that's a great point about the siege cycles."
"objection: well the defender will just blob up and kill the smaller gangs that are attacking the planetary defense modules.so what? bubble them when they warp in, blob up yourself, and enjoy your huge badass fleet fight. at least if they choose to blob your pdm-killers, you'll be fighting them at a pdm instead of a deathstar or lagstar pos. the point of the idea isn't to completely eliminate blob warfare. it wouldn't really help with lag much anyway because as soon as you get 400 guys in a single system it goes to **** regardless of what grid you're on.alternatively, you can keep dodging their blob and hitting the pdms where there blob isn't. in high lag it will take them quite a while to warp their blob from pdm to pdm, load grid, and start killing your pdm-killers who are already on grid and killing a pdm. meanwhile all your other subcap groups are at other pdms bringing them down.if you're talking about a fleet blob situation, don't pretend that a blob of ships can flit all around the system on a whim smashing groups of subcaps. maybe one group every 20 minutes if the node doesn't crash. meanwhile the planetary base is vulnerable to sieged dreads and is getting its ass kicked.objection: they won't need a blob. they'll just warp a titan to the pdms and dd all the subcaps there.ya, the proposal includes a part about geting rid of the old-style subcap-murdering dd and replacing it with an anti-cap weapon. so you're wrong."
"i think what a defender will actually want to do if they have a strong cap fleet is to blob the main attacking fleet at the planetary base. the main attacking fleet will need to kill the defense fleet rather than firing on the planetary base, so the pdm-killer subcap gangs won't be any use at the pdms. they may as well all join the main battle at the planetary base.if the defender has a smaller fleet or a large fleet of mostly subcaps, then they'd be best off trying to split up and kill all the enemy subcaps attacking their pdms. if those pdms don't go down then the planetary base is safe, and we already established that is sucks to use caps to take them down.so the defender can manage an effective defense using either a gang of subcaps or a large cap fleet, and regardless of either side's fleet composition, both subcaps and caps are really useful.and the idea still leaves plenty of opportunities for the huge battles with big expensive ships that can only happen in 0.0."
"ccp should have been clearer on the voting system yes/no/abstain. personally i thought abstaining was in most but not all cases either irresponsible or lazy on the part of the delegate, and if it were up to me abstention should not be an option.making abstention an automatic no would be the best solution imo. if a delegate does not care enough to escalate the issue, it should be a vote against the issue. if a vote is 4 aye, 4 nay, 1 abstain, it should not pass."
"i agree on this.xhagen sent us a note about the abstention option. the original csm document didn't actually describe anything other than yes and no as options. so i think you are right. if abstain should be available, it must count as a no."
"in a way i agree. it should be:-aye: motion passes.nay: motion fails, can't be returned to the table during the current csm session.abstain: motion fails, can be re-proposed for consideration not by the same csm member. this is the option to pick if you're not sure the idea is strong enough at the moment to present to ccp at the time of voting. this allows people a chance to strengthen the case for a given issue and gather the support of wavering csm members.nay votes, in this case should be rare, given that the idea placed on the table should be reasonably strong enough to have attracted the csm's attention. however, this can be used to deal with parody threads by bringing them to the table and firmly nailing the lid down on the issue for the remainder of the csm term."
"why are people so irrational about abstention? it's a vote, just like any other. abstain = afk. with 9 in channel, 8 abstains and a yes is approval. it's really not difficult. now, i don't think reps should abstain very often, but when they do there's a very simple, standard way of counting it."
"can you link the campaign threads please, i want to see if the csm's are activly working on the campaign promises, i got a feeling one has done the complete opposite and need's to be shown the door of dishoner."
"sounds like an interesting idea to me, supported"
"you know i actually quite like this suggestion it kinda makes sense. it would probably help lag in huge fleet battles where it would say that a certain amount of an alliance is in system rather than each individual pilot in system./signed"
"i can see that big alliances and corps would make a good use out of this suggestion, controlling all or parts of \"local\" intel and comms. but small player groups, newbies and the average occasional miners would be completely f****d.no support."
"brutuus:your opinion is one sided a bit, i think you missed some points.lets see a situation, where a small corporation attacks a borderzone of a \"big alliance\" where the allaince has sov level2, so the continous intel level is on the second level. the small corporation's recon ship enters the system, launches the best probe she has and receives intel on level3 for the pilots whole network, until probe is alive. i dont see a disatvantage here, it could be easier to surprise those, who think are safe.newbies, and average occasional miners would be forced to work in teams and learn/adapt? i dont see a problem here either, this is not wow. noobs die in masses anyways, no matter what.in 0.0 the groups, you mentioned can't expect a glorious future anyways like 90% of them, not even with the current local mechanics. if your concern is about low sec, with this system, players could \"settle down\" more easily. by hard work, or good connections / high standings they could have a nice intel resource there, so they could organize their self defense, enjoy better security than ever, just think about distress signals.if you say, the main problem is, that all this isnt free, then id like to see, what do you do, if all you have is a constellation channel. :"
"small gang and solo players do not necessarily get into disadvantage with the proposed local change. if they go to big alliance territory to do their stuff, they will be in disadvantage, of course. in \"neutral\" areas, tho, like no mans land, where noone has intel, or in faction sov areas, they will have the same chance as anyone else, with the difference that intel is delayed for both parties. if one has good faction standings, he may even have advantage over the newcomers. example, serpentis agent runners have higher serpentis standings, so they get better intel about local in serpentis controlled systems than the random ganker."
"hmmm....could make the whole ecm/eccm thing more exciting too. having ships/skills that allow folks to hack networks for info/disruption.i'll give it a thumbs up..."
"i really like this idea!/signed"
"the whole point of a local nerf isn't a massive boost for 0.0 alliance, but rather as a nerf for 0.0 alliances...not supported"
"actually, i want local removed for rp reasons. you think a local nerf would hurt large alliance.this is the strongest alternative i've seen so far. everyone in high-sec gets access to concord intel. everyone with faction standings gets access to low-sec and npc 0.0 intel. sovereignty holding alliance gets intel and can give it to those who have good standings with them allies just like setting up who gets shot by pos guns.maybe not as complicated as you have presented, but something along these lines that separates chat and intel.edited forgot support"
"i sense a slight contradiction here. and since when is republic military school is a 0.0 alliance?btw supported."
"thx for the summary and support ofc. the only aspect i missed from it, the small corporations and non-territorial entities also have their chance to get an own source: with some recon ships they can have an own mobile intel-network, quickly, easily and cheap."
"very interesting, even if this is just a \"beta\" version of what local could be i still support this alternative or something like it being pushed forward."
"i like the idea. would like to see ccps opinion of this and other local nerfs."
"great idea, might help to get everyone in on the testing instead of just those that already have the sp."
"supporting to increase usefulness of test server. a better tool for players and, through emergence, a better tool for ccp."
"yes, do it pls"
"/signed, this is absolutely needed"
"we really need this to be changed !"
"this is a totally awesome idea. please make it happen"
"better late than never i guess."
"ya"
"supported"
"nano gangs will die soon tough read the dev blogs ;"
"the one where they nerfed speed or the one where they moved all changes to multiplicity for reworking?"
"the nerf as stated in the blog is udderly unfair and unbalanced. while i agree ships need to have a cap put on speed for it's ship class i do not agree that the nerf as it is proposed right now. problems i see-interceptors will no longer be capable of doing their designed roleswarp disruptors will be over powered and cause unstable game play options for smaller ships and gangs designed to move fast as a counter to larger fleets or for the intentions of tackle and actual interception you're making ships far slower, and nerfing all forms of speed moduals and then making some of this completely redundant by suggesting that webs need to be nerfed. all in all wether you like nanoed ships \" wich by the way are no longer actually nano ships already due to nano nerfs prior \" or you don't like them speedy guys, the real point is speed is suppose to be a legit part to this game as designed by ccp in the form of ships with bonuses to go fast, and have mwd duration bonuses. on a scale of 1-10this nerf gets a 10 on the \" not thought out prior to publication \" systemi highly suggest people look into this fully and without emotion or favortisim and come to a feasable and proper means of reducing over speed ships that should not go as fast as they can right now. ie: battle ships, bc's and yes even hacs can go at speeds they should not be capable of.i did come up with a thought, wich is sure to have some if not full out rejection. but i was thinking a possible dammage drawback to making ships too fast for it's ship type.ie: a battleship given a max safe speed of 1.2 kms would take dammage to the hull wich will eventually end in destruction of the ship for going over it's intended speed for the ship class.this in fact would be closer to a real life situation where as the structure is only made to take so much thrust and speed on certian moving objects before the structure becomes dammaged and unstable.just a thought \" smack away \""
"/supportskill queue for how long players wants what does it matter? ok maybe a limit of 5 skills.now people will tell me that we will have people farm characters on inactive accounts then the fix is easy...1. account becomes inactive.2. skill queue is disabled.3. your current skill is finished, subscriber needs to pay for the account and login to start skill training again.i see no problem whatsoever with this, and i can say i really hate skills that take less then 2 days, why? i don't want to have to plan my real life because of a game, i love eve it's the best game ever but i do have a life outside of it and i want to be able to take a day off without having to actually plan something in a game."
"i have to agree mostly with this. a que will not effect wether someone plays or don't play. it only makes them log in to change the skill so they can log out agian.with that said in reality it would not hurt to have a decent skill que system set up. in fact i think many of the people who would not play but once or twice a week would benifit from this as would ccp wich currently looses out on some membeships due to the fact that this is a high matinance game requireing a large ammount of attention that many people do not have and therefore thoes types of people, sometimes, will not choose to play this game at all. i am all for a skill que espcially considering i've lost a few people myself due to the high level of complexity involved in keeping an account training and such."
"a very simple design to skill queue that prevent people from abusing it is that you can only que the skill up to your activation time and problem solved."
"just do it fast"
"here's my thoughts:if i were playing wow then i could grind my points if i choose to. here in eve i don't get that choice. i have to login to change my skill. so effectively any i pay for my training time and i lose when i am unable to log-in. business, work, home projects solution: let me que my training. i pay for the time. want to discourage acct farming? if an acct is unpaid it can not train. simple. no training with a disabled acct. don't want to let me que my training? then credit me with time points that i can apply to any skill i wish. these will take effect at the sp/hr i have for the skill.bottom line: in every mmo out there one has the ability to govern how fast or slow they gain experience by how much they play. here in eve we do not. it is one of the best things about eve except for the current defect of management of my skills.i play eve when i play eve> i dont play eve when i log in to \"skill check\"stupidest thing ever is to see someone log on and say \"skill check\" and log off. the current thinking by ccp that skill checking makes people play is a fallacy. the onloy thing skill checking does based on 2+ years of playing eve is anger or annoy people.please fix this. idea supported."
"here are my thoughts on the matter. 1 character farming is going to happen no matter what. all a smart programmer needs to do is write a macro, enter the user names and passwords, and with the miracle of on-screen character recognition the macro finds and sets the skill.2 short skills are a pain. yes we experienced players have 2-4 week long skills we can chip away at while we sleep. younger players dont have that luxury yet unless its a useless skill they dont need.now for the meaningful part:3 the queue should be a combination of the time length / max number system. you can either set 2 long skills or set 48 hrs worth of short ones. this will balance between beginners and experts. these skills could also be modified by 2 more learning skills. queue depth and queue length4 the queue should check subscription status at the end of each skill and if the account is inactive then the queue is lost. this takes care of the farmers setting 2 intermediate length skills and stop paying.5 military personnel should not be penalized for their deployments. we work a lot harder than most of you civilians do. our play time is limited and there is nothing we can do about it. summery:farming will happen no matter whatbeginners need thiscombine the time and number theoriescheck subscription status"
"i have mixed feelings on this. it's an interesting idea, but it also seems geared toward giving a sizable advantage to the defenders and their friends."
"its actually not that bad of an idea"
"it makes sense that people who own the space and who have installed the proper intelligence infrastructure to have an intelligence advantage."
"i agree completely. in fact, it would we strange not to.i like this idea, but i'm interested in how recon ships would affect this network idea. would system survey be some innate ability, would it be improved by some skill and/or do you need to install a module on your recon ship?"
"very interesting idea. 2.2 questions;1 how do you see this impacting the mobility of players within the eve universe?eg. will players and corporations will tend to stick in one location because of the barrier to establishing such intelligence2 if players tend to stay in one system/constellation/region what would be the impact of that on:2.1 trade eg. more differentiation in markets2.2 player experience eg. i played eve for 2 years and never left my system/constellation/region"
"interesting idea - obviously needs some working on, but bookmarked to check out at a later date"
"amazing. few players are able to give this detailed of an example. i think the csm should pick this up simply because it is very well thought out. obviously needs a little bit of tweeking to work effectivly.one recomendation from me. have a level 0 base network in each system regardless of sec status that shows number of ships only. not friendly or hostile status just the number of ships and how many are entering / leaving."
"i don't think it will have this kind of negative effect. it will just cause people to be smarter and more cautious as they move around. if intelligence was gathered and distributed depending on standing towards the sovereignty holding npc faction or player alliance, it would still act as an early warning sign to rightful miners/ratters and would give incentive to hold space and interact diplomatically."
"i wonder if they have done some work on this yet?"
"i support this as i think war needs to be far more unpredictable, not, oh look here come the ishtars."
"eh, changes made are changes which can be changed yet again and with the benefit of hindsight if it is felt to be necessary."
"nanos are nothing more than the new wcs. they do the same damn thing, namely, let you engage without committing to the fight. the only difference is that wcs were available to pretty much everyone, and uber nano-fits are only for the wealthy.they should either nerf the nanos, or reverse the wcs nerf. the stated reason for the wcs nerf was to make people commit to fights. i see the nano nerf doing the same."
"this is right on. i'm sure to an empire player that doesn't participate in pvp at all, this missions/agents in 0.0 stuff sounds like a great way to placate alliance players and 'add value' to 0.0, but it's going about it all the wrong way.0.0 doesn't need uncontestable, safe, risk-free ways of making money. it needs risky, contestable, but profitable ways of making money. contestable meaning hostile forces can earn some profit by disrupting it, risky obviously meaning that you or your source of income can be stolen/destroyed, and profitable is pretty relative-- but i think we can agree that both npc and conquerable 0.0 should be at least profitable if not more so than empire for the individual player, no? right now, that only applies to npc 0.0. that's a problem.for those who've never left empire, here are the three most common ways to make money in conquerable 0.0, and how they rate in the three aforementioned attributes:belt rattingrisky: yes, you can be killed quite easily while ratting.contestable: no. roaming gankers killing ratters can't make any money from the belts without spending hours ratting themselves.profitable: not very, unless you have hours to set up chains and kill them quickly and find where they go when they hop belts, ugh.ratting needs to be changed or improved for profitability, without compromising risk. rat value being moved more toward loot value faction items or super-compressed minerals could result in increased contestability by allowing those who kill ratters to take home a bit more than 2-3m in crappy named loot. rogue drones already do this, which is kind of cool, but not quite good enough. ratting is also extremely, extremely boring. far more boring than missions.miningrisky: same as belt ratting.contestable: not in the slightest. moving ore is difficult for miners, impossible for roaming gangs or hostiles doing area denial.profitable: yes, but only highends.contestability could be improved by introducing something like player-built asteroid seed beds that improve spawn rates and quantities but can be raided, disabled, destroyed, looted, etc. profitability could be improved by introducing ways to harvest significant amounts of lowend minerals in 0.0 belts, bringing their profitability nearly to highend levels and reducing the total reliance on highsec resources that exists in 0.0 currently. mining is obviously very boring, but can be done half-afk, so this isn't a huge problem.explorationrisky: not very, as there are all sorts of barriers to being located probing down the complex and then further barriers to being actually tackled attackers arrive in the first room and can't use mwds. same as with missions, basically.contestable: barely. hostiles can probe down and run the complex you found before you do, but since complexes can spawn anywhere, there's no reliable way to do this.profitable: usually very, with exceptions.recon probes need to be able to locate explorers in complexes, of course at a reduced speed and reliability from probing someone in normal space. profession sites have taken a dive, and need to be looked at seriously. escalation chances and faction/overseer spawn chances need to be improved for some sites. other sites do far more dps than is reasonable, and/or dump you into the middle of situations that are nearly impossible to handle without timing your warps perfectly and getting reps on your tank immediately. complexes need to spawn reliably in certain areas to increase contestability."
"you're kidding me right? are you seriously trying to say that you don't know that people rent out lab slots in their empire poses? or that people hire themselves out as mercenaries? or that people have been able to create courier missions through the contract screen for over 4 years? and yes, all of these come with \"shiny\" isk attached to it.because it's a fraking mmo and you need to help the alliance to get helped by it. most alliances provide free or discounted ammo, mods and ships to their members. you need to do a little work to get those benefits. maybe if you actually joined a player corp you'd understand this stuff. it's really rather basic.omg. please, please, please try to actually play this game that you are supposedly recommending changes for."
"i would first like to start my post by stating that there seems to be so much confusion, and i can't get no relief.i see this whole issue as being about a number of tiered issues that have to be decided upon each in turn before discussing anything further.first, as the honorable cash warbash has explained above me, private stock trading systems within a corp/alliance structure can and do work efficiently. they promote participation in the organization with stock rewards and the dividends that follow and allow for internal trading of those stocks for those in the organization. the issue with a system as described by cash above is that it does not lend itself to a ccp-audited/administrated system without dramatic changes.the differences between a privately traded corporation such as cash's and publicly traded ones such as what many of you suggest could simply be distinguished by having a tag/flag within a new ccp stock market abbrev. ccpsmsystem. those corporations that do not wish to be publicly traded should simply be private.beyond that, when dealing with the ccpsm there seem to be a number of important concerns/aspects that previous posters to this topic have mentioned. i will only quote the first to mention them here and not comment myself if their points are clear.as ricdic's hoe said, then followed up by matalino:and as cailais said:and as joemina brought up, which seems to augment cailais's point:with the above in mind, it should be very simple for a ccpsm to be created that allows for stock in public corporations to be traded. this stock should be valuable based upon the profits of the corporation selling the stock and dividends should be paid out each period based upon said profit.any further specifics of such a system should only come about after a concept is accepted by the governing body csm. anyone interested in such a system should also realize that any such implementation to eve would likely require many revisions before being complete and would not be complete if any obvious and non-obvious menthods of scamming and fraud can be seen.i hope this post helps clarify and consolidate a number of the ideas floating about and i would welcome discussion with anyone on this subject. please feel free to send me a message on the forums or in game.thank you for your time, kubic harth,aces"
"there is a catch you refuse to see: there are already plenty of pvpers with tons of isk and stuffso if you nerf new players income it is not true that \"all ships get a purpose\", it means that you are sending new players in t1 fitted cruisers against old players in t2/faction fitted bs, with the old players capable of replacing his loss in minutes selling those cruisers to the new players mostly while the new player would spend days and weeks to replace the cruiser.a \"balancing\" making the players use lesser ships would require equalizing the playing field too, removing the isk advantage of the older players. if not you simply are saying \"i love the advantage my accumulated wealth give me, beat the newcomer down so i keep the advantage\". your argument are simply about nerfing the income of people that don't play like you, so you can get an advantage on them."
"yes, you want them, in low sec, with a damned frigate. you know what it mean 90% slash? 2 million hour for level 4 missions, 10k hour for level 1 mission."
"are you people really so far removed from reality to actually believe this stuff?the main playstyle for missionrunners possibly even the most common playstyle in the game is the mission running/ship progression playstyle. in which you run missions to earn iskies to improve your ship/gear to run missions better to earn more iskies to improve your ship further and so on.and even if you have a very hard time understanding this, this kinda of playstyle is very rewarding for those who engage in it. and it is only possible with highsec missions that earn you decent iskies.move them to lowsec, and you can't reasonably use a pimp ship anymore, killing all the fun. keep them in highsec but totally nerf their rewards in highsec, pimping ship becomes pointless. either of which makes the entire game pointless for this common type of player. now i know you guys think that eve will be better off without them, but really, don't you see how silly that particular point of view would be for ccp?the more i read these threads, the clearer it becomes that the real issue here is that some people actually enjoy the activities that earn you iskies, while others hate them. so those who enjoy them and thus are doubly rewarded must of course be nerfed to keep it 'fair' compared to those who hate them who also pay for their earning with boredom...."
"let's take at face value those that say that top rewards for level 4 missions are too high and they are thinking about game balance and no other things. so let' start with some assumptionfirst: reward from missions if you aren't a top missioner aren't so high 20 millions/hour, less than what i can get in 0.0 ratting or in low sec using the level 20 agents;second: players need to be capable of recovering ship losses in reasonable time.so what is possible to do to reduce top rewards without nuking rewards for the players new to level 4 missions?1 when you refuse a mission the agent will not have a second mission available for you for 4 hours. 2 break the mission hub with several good quality agents in the same system. edit: with that i mean no more than 1 positive level 4 agent from the same faction in the same system, if possible not less than 3 systems between positive level 4 agents of the same corporation. effect: players interested in farming the best missions will be forced to move around to get them. a player that need a long time to complete a mission will notice it less, a player very fast in completing missions will se a net decrease in his return. less lag in the mission hubs. more difficulties to low sec afk hauling missions farmers. 3 change how mission respawn after dt. instead of respawning the whole mission, respawn only the group with the critical loot or the target group and the not destroyed spawns position should be no important, so a tag near the spawn on the database: destroyed yes/no, should be sufficient, reducing database burden.effect: this will reduce the possibility to farm the missions for the high bounties after each dt. i am not so convinced it is so common, but i can be mistaken. 4 if all the above is not sufficient, move the level 4 agents with 11+ quality and the level 3 with 16+ quality to low sec, or even the 6+ and 11+ respectively if you feel it is insufficient. so 3 easy steps that will reduce top rewards with little impact on average rewards, so still allowing a progression for the players interested in missions."
"just a fyi for everyone.this is who you are arguing withsave your breath."
"ahh, so that is where that lingering feeling of deja vu in this thread came from...and those mild nerfs proposed by venkul do seem reasonable enough. regrettably ccp has a track record of being incapable of mild nerfs. it's usually leave as is or nerf it to hell. and 'as is' is vastly perferable in this case."
"these four steps are actually pretty nice. if you where to start a new thread with these i would support it."
"i agree with this post... though, what do you expect? this is classic ccp... rather than fixing actual issues they're just going to reshuffle things so that they can call it an upgrade.seriously. quit playing around with things that are unimportant/unbroken and actually fix the things that are broken first.short list:forums search thank god for third party search sitesfinding your own posts/threads it can be done, but not as easy as it should beigb support. seriously, ingameboard is even in the url, and it still failsbesides, who complained about the current organization of the forums that ccp wants to shuffle them anyway? there's no way it could have been more people than who complain about the forums being broken in this way or that."
"yeah the forum's kinda lacking. one aspect is the search function. no matter what i do it seems to pull out 100 year old posts."
"this post i must give a 9 out of 10, good job, well rounded thoughts and lots of info to think about.i certianly agree that rigs need both a little balancing and prolly a few more new rigs as well. though i am guilty of taking advantage of some of theese end all be all rigs in certian set ups i do agree that it is unbalanced and needs some careful attention.however, i also think that salvage needs to be looked into as well to bring more salvage for people makign rigs, i personally think we need a hike of 100 percent on salvage that comes out of things however after discussion with others 20 percent seems a lot more balanced. the cost of some rigs, especially t2 rigs can get insane and tbh most t2 rigs are not worth what people try to get out of them unless you're an isk farmer and can afford to throw away a month of isk on a single t2 rig. all in all i support this thread!"
"one more, for the hell of it. i have fond memories of reading the chronicles when i first played eve - they were part of the lure for me. i'd even like to see some more information regarding the intaki too."
"/signed/me loves a good story"
"you have some valid points here, couched in sarcasm. however, i must disagree that with your assertion that all these hisec crappy-moons will be snatched up by the major alliances. in all cases of the moons i have been looking at in hisec, not a one of them makes enough isk to even pay for the fuel to keep a small pos running monthly.that said, i will relook at my notes and run a few more scans to see if i have missed something that would better support your arguement.thanks for the input ..."
"agree with the premise of making moon minerals a finite comodity."
"support"
"before something like this is even considered, the deployment and removal of towers needs a complete overhaul. spending 5-6 hrs deploying and 4-5 hrs removing one tower every 3 months multiply that by however many towers is currently run just to keep the same production going, simply should not be an option."
"sentury guns even at 200 percent more dammage will not at all stop a camp. it will only stop some solo gankers from sitting on a gate flaged.if you fear for your badger that much, go to high sec cause low sec, is suppose to be low sec not high sec."
"improve the guns arent necessary just dont go into lowsec whit badgers and etc if you are soo noob to let them to lock you its your problem cos some people too stupid for fit his/her ship for lowsec its their fault not the gunspirate camps will going on if you make the guns more stronger but enough stronger the guys cos they arent destructable"
"the reason that low-sec is dead right now is that it's imbalanced toward the pirates. try to do industry or npcing out there and you're just a victim. try to anti-pirate and you just go broke, because the pirates will just scatter when presented with anything close to an even fight and tend to drop crappy loot even when you do catch them out.it collapsed for a reason, and that reason is not because the game mechanics make it too hard to pirate. anything that starts to shift the balance from the outlaws back toward the citizens will help bring people back there."
"you need to make up your mind. on one thread this morning you say \"if you don't like it go to high-sec\", on another you say \"we have to find a way to get you out of high-sec\"."
"not signed for already stated reasons."
"i disagree with this low sec will be more useless and is there actually any pirates signing this or is it high sec livers wanting to pass through low sec with less gate camping?and if you are signing this you should live in low sec to be able to signe it not jut random high sec/0.0 ***s"
"supported"
"supported"
"this might be the holy grail - a lag whine that's not based in ignorance. supported, if only for the novelty of it all."
"ug no....this rates right up there with an idea i heard today wich went something like \" just don't allow people to target other players in high sec \" it is kinda lame to have yourself ganked in this way in high sec, but there needs to be a proper way of getting all you high sec noobs out to low sec and 0.0.. if yer too comfy in high sec then eve in general fails. all in all we need more people comming out of high sec , not keeping you all basking in the glory of an idea that you are untocuhable while not in low sec or 0.0 aside from war decs wich npc corporation members already have."
"it's proposed as an alternative to the suicide gank nerf that the devs have already outlined. compared to that it would make pvp in empire more common, not less, and it might even revitalize low-sec to some degree."
"awwww.... he want's more noobs to killx o dthats exactly what keeps them in high security!some people don't even last as long as a month to play this game..... and they won't stay there forever.... you can't make big bucks in high sec... everyone knows that!"
"never heard of l4 missions i see"
"pfft... level 4 missions do get you some good cash yes.but the really good stuff is out in 0.0 space.: o "
"great idea in principle. however, i think the right to be a licensed concord deputy or whatever needs to be earned. so, in caldari space, a very high standing with at least 3 caldari corps and a very high sec status would make you an lcd in caldari hi sec space, with the right to attack any negative sec status ship and any ship that has behaved in any way deemed criminal. that way prats would have to be as careful in hi-sec space as the rest of us do in lo-sec.personally i would add the right to join the aggressed side in a wardec, to provide some support for smaller industrial corps against griefers, since the lazy good-for-nothings who masquerade as gms in this game won't.for balance i would have very severe sec status and standing hits for lcds who hit the wrong ie innocent target.it would almost be like hi-sec prats would have to earn there livelihoods, which at the moment they do not."
"i'd absolutely love a khanid abaddon or apoc. i'd say 7 launchers, 5% torp rof bonuses and a 5% resistance per level.8 high, 5 mid, 6 low, 75 mb drone bandwidth. it'd be a crazy good angel missioner."
"all for it. there are many underused factions, and i think some cross-empire factions would be an excellent addition to eve in general. no more caldari/amarr and gallente/minmatar camps, but more greyscale is good.resulting ships would be excellent for the roleplayers as well as the players that love exotic ships.and yes for intaki and soe ships!"
"if we go there, it is possible to boost a little the navy ships, especially cruisers and frigates? and some faction battlecruiser and destroyer would be awesome."
"as we have a new, similar thread about this matter, i'll just paste my post from the other one here and add support, too."
"yarrrrr"
"a lot more toggles would be nice for the corporate interface, who is the sponsor, probation time, rent mails on/off. many of the current 'functions' are unwanted, unasked for and largely unused."
"even useful for smaller corps."
"fine by me"
"gistii crow"
"supported."
"i'm pretty sure this feature used to occur, iirc as an evemail to the ceo/directors informating who accepted the application or in the members application screen which doesn't keep the history anymore.ideally this would be implemented into the logging feature discussed for joins since there is already a kill log type feature ccp mentioned that they made the logging more generic to support eg. pos mailings.then you could audit it. i would look for one more feature for this, which is exposure of the information in the api, so the people who develop websites tools for corporation management can include it in their interfaces."
"agreed, it makes sense. then the ceo can go \"well you employed him dammit!\" at the director or personnel officer who employed whoever just robbed all your bpo's!perhaps an ex corp member list might be nice too."
"signed.there used to be a way to tell who accepted the app.then around the time that revelations 2 came out, it was changed.i want it back!"
"years ago ccp created the interbus here you have chronicles"
"would be interesting if this included convoys that were ganked mid-route destroyed players transportations, so there was a small percentage risk that some random pilot would gank the interbus transport."
"only if i could blow the ships up and get mad loot. they sound like they would be about as strong as shuttles and that would be great."
"i totally disagree. interbus is fine for the lore of eve, and as a service for npc's only, but it is not a smart idea to create a game element in eve that the players could do themselves. if you want transport, pay a player to do it; if that isn't currently working too well, then i would support the addition of game elements that would make a player run interstellar ups a more viable profession."
"if we are talking about the interbus as described in the chronicles we would have a transport service for people only and personally i don't see much merit in that. if you want to be transported somewhere you can use a shuttle on autopilot or if you need a fast transport you could use jumpclones.an npc-transport like interbus wouldn't be useful in my opinion exept when the following criteria are met:1. it is faster than using a shuttle 2. it is safer than using a shuttleand those 2 criteria have in my opinion the potential to be quite game-changing."
"i was thinking about something simmilar to contract systems, but with few days off timer from creating contract to finishing it. and no additional npc's in space, more like 'teleporting' items from station a to station b. maybe with some rules like no minerals, no courier mission items etc. idea is to get back things like old assets leaved months/years ago in some distant empire systems, not preventing people from buying freighters.nobody from players will take a contract with 300 m3 and 40j half in low secs for around 1m isks, and if cargo isnt worth much then its not worth to pay some ridicious amount of money for it. thats why many players have assets in 100 different stations, different regions, and no idea what to do with it."
"i think this could work, as something where you have to pay a fee to get transported near-instantly, and where you can only go to certain fixed stations... which should get scarcer when you head into lowsec space, of course...shipping should of course be left to players. the interbus, like any other company, should employ pilots to freight things for them, of course, and only handle personal transports themselves."
"our alliance had our logo submitted well before the \"freezing\" of new logos for a new process. it was never put in game. ccp has been totally unresponsive in answering when this will be addressed. can't we at least get an answer as to a \"best guess\" when new logos will be put in eve?minor point for folks that already have one but a big deal for folks like us. we put a lot of effort into getting one made and submitted.issler dainzefounder of beep"
"i wonder if the 'cold, dark, harsh universe' argument applies here?"
"i've been skeptical of that system as well... it would be cool to have our own corporate logos and alliances as well.i think we should at least get some sort of idea as to how/why the system is so restrictive and slow to respond other than the obviousness of keeping the uh.... well... nasty trash out"
"taking a mission sensitive item is in no way a violation of any rule."
"killing them doesn't guarantee you get the mission item. in fact, the mission item can be destroyed when you kill them. then you're screwed.and if they ninja the mission item and dock up before you can kill them, then you're still screwed.last time i checked, *all* wrecks in a mission belong to character whom pulled the mission."
"as odd as it may be, i do agree that it is far to easy for people to go in and ruin a mission on you wether high sec or low sec. one main issue is how easy it is to scan a missioner out.though it was said to be made harder in fact i've found it is not. i can scan a missioner out within 29 seconds in a covert frig with ease, go in and kill them with my main or take their stuff and lolz in local. it is an evil thing to do, yet fun for the one doing it.i do support making some way to stop people not in gang with the missioner from grabbing or destroying a mission sensitive object merely because in all honesty thoes who do that sort of thing \" including me \" only do it to **** in peoples cornflakes and it really has no proper place in eve other than that."
"this is only true if they do not provide the mission runner with a way to get it back. i always make sure to ransom it back for 5-50 mill depending on mission level also, i do not believe this applies anymore anyway, since stealing the objective now causes aggro."
"can any one think of other factions currently in game and the race combos they use?"
"eom ships - yes. amarr/caldari combos as minmatar already has multiple combos already.for those who do not know, eom ships are like shield tanked apocs that use rails etc."
"it should work like other channels, if you talk, you show up. simple. i dont think the channel was really there to be used as a tactical tool.or just be able to shut the channel."
"if local is nerfed in any way there will be less people ratting or mining in 0.0.less targets and all that."
"heatsink.. i feel sorry for them fish. there going to boil ^_^"
"from a purely outside perspective i would say .. the runner put in the time they should reap the rewards. from my own standpoint ive run missions and i've trained the skills for probing with great disatisfaction towards finding sites. i've spent the isk to make a build a ship with uber fast scans. i know both sides allthough youll never catch me looting someone elses kill. and yeah no matter how you cut it, it is what it is others ravageing the carcass of your kill.. theft whatever.. thats what it is dont deny it. all that being said.. sure anyone with any pride is going to take a hit to their ego when some comes by and takes away part of their prize. when i'm running mission i can sell the salvage 1-2 times a month for 150-200 mil isk. thats my isk my salvage my kill. do i salvage every mission.. no maybe 85%. do i have a major issue if i see 1 person salvaging my mission in 1% of the missions i do. no!i havnt run missions in 4 mths or so, but at that time i'd occasionally see someone pop in my mission .. and politely leave. sometimes they ask if they can salvage, sometimes i so sure.. and pass off the other bms from the 1st couple of stages. sometimes i'm building rigs and want it myself, or am low on isk and wanting to drain every isk out of every bleeding minutie i can get to play. ive seen people ask in local.. \"does anyone mind if i salvage your wrecks\" i've seen plenty nice chats and have even given the ok to do it, and on occasion asked if anyone wanted my bms as i dont have time for the salvage and even said feel free to take the loot.i think what this comes down to is there are a few that ruin it for all, instead of the mojority getting in a big upheaval about it.. and lets face it the only ones that are going to win are the smacktards causeing the issues cause they want the aggro so they can loot your pve ship.. we should come to a common understanding. i think the mojority would be able to handle it as far as being courtous.. i think the runners need to be more proactive in saying \"hey over here, free salvage\" and it would go a long way to putting this fire out. but both sides have to work towards it.. and its the mission runners that will benefit the most out of the cooperation that the salvagers want. otherwise itll be mission running gank fest or it'll stay the same as is and everyone will just be miserable."
"predation.we've all seen it, or at least heard of it, at one point or another. some have participated in it, whilst others are hapless victims. a predatory player is, generally, a high-sp player who enjoys ambushing and harassing though racketeering [protection money] or out-right ship/equipment destruction lower-sp players, or simply players that are caught in an unarmed or lower-tier ship. \"gate camping\" is common, as is simple banditry. many players are, each day, attacked and have their ships and equipment destroyed for no more reason than being in the wrong place at the wrong time.and that's not very fun is it? well, for the victim. i imagine it's great sport for the player killers.but this frustrates and downright angers many players, especially the ones who aren't interested in eve's brand of so-called 'pvp'. before certain people start clamoring about \"it's called pvp\" and such, let me point out just what pvp means. player versus player. the \"versus\" indicates that it is a match between two or more people. a massacre is not a match; it's just being a jerk. most eve players fail to understand this. whether it is a lack of respect for their fellow players or just that they have no consideration for anyone but themselves, i don't know and i'm not going to explore that here.the point is, it's not very nice and it makes a lot of people's lives that much worse. if you're going to play an mmo, you need to be able to get along with people. but, since letting people do that on their own isn't working in a general sense, i'd suggest regulating pvp.i, personally, would suggest a toggle that lets players on an alliance, corporation, or personal level decide if they want to be open for player-to-player aggression.discussion is encouraged."
"one of eve's most attractive features is that it is a single server. other games have regular servers, possibly with pvp zones, and pvp servers in which players can attack other players without prior consent, or even warning. eve has one server and the character of that server is one of non-consentual pvp. that's by game design and it is what had attracted a sizable portion of the game community in one way or another. pvp fuels the market as well as the pvpers and the competition it generates both directly and indirectly is what keeps the game interesting..5 and higher security has elements of safety to protect the unwary or the uniterested. .4 and lower you actually need to pay attention to the game. there are game mechanics which give you prior warning to potenital hostile player activity, chiefly the map and local. working with other players, like the teamwork of which you spoke, is another defense by scouting and sharing intelligence. and when it absolutly cant be avoided, there 2 player professions which an preyed upon player can seek for assistance: the mercenaries and the anti-pirates/griefers.some elements player combat mechanics do need to be tweaked but it's not further regulating and restricting the occurence. give antipirates some kind of reward system for their work, fix the bounty system, take insurence payouts away from those that break concord engagement laws 15 min prior to their ship destruction. this increases the risk and loss for would be predators. but at the same time, fix local, the map, and mechanics that promote large blob combat so that the pvp that does occur, willingly and unwillingly, can be more rewarding for all."
"for every player in eve that is angered by the encounters you describe, there is some other player in eve who loves the tears."
"eve is a mmo based around a fairly brutal system of pvp. anyone undocked can be attacked at any time. there may be consequences for this, but there's no ban on it. and that's quite intentional. it's a very different style that attracts a different player base. scammers, pirates, griefers, the works - all are welcome here, when more traditional mmos try to throw them out on their ear. i'm not normally the sort of person to reply to every whine with \"gb2wow\", but in this case it might well be justified. the experience you're looking for is fundamentally different from the one eve seeks to provide. if that is truly your opinion, and you're not just trolling, then perhaps an alternate mmo might actually be best for you."
"the tendencies of the newest dev blogs and features implemented  and to be implementedat eve does show that ccp is not turning eve into this brutal only game that you describe eve to be. this is simply untrue because eve is still a business and as any business it will go with the market tendency which is not what you are saying that eve seeks to provide. also, no, there is no need to seek alternate mmo, actually this isn't a healthy way to conduct a debate simply asking people to quit the game insie eve forums."
"who are you? and wtf are you talking about?"
"what a horrible game braking idea to allow a pvp toggle. not breaking in the sense that it wouldn't work, but in the sense that it would kill the whole game as it is today. the nice thing about eve is that it offers a single gameworld with some framework, but basicly tries to impose as little artificial limits as possible. those limits that are imposed, like the recent suicide gank nerf, usually make sense in the gameworld and only provide consequences. nothing prevents you from actually suiciding your ships even with the new rules.the uneven pvp situations that the op talks about are just consequences of this given freedom, realistic and to be expected. in this game we have safetynets so we are always able to get back up after falling and try again. we can also fail miserably, since we have to compete with other players in the things that matter. because you can actually lose things here, you wont pull any punches when competing with other players. it's you and your allies versus potentially everyone else. this is pvp when you remove all the artificial constraints that usually limit people in games and it's how things work in eve and in irl.yes this is only a game, but it tries to create a deep, varied, living world. the safety the op is asking can be achieved with experience, skill and common sense even in this game, but the method she is proposing doesn't belong in eve and isn't even needed. keep in mind that all the options that are available to them are available to you too. here you just have to actually put some effort yourself and work with others to level that playing field. the immortality, highsec and easy isk should be all the entitlement that a player ever needs in eve."
"optional world-filter nao!i want to be able to speak freely in a manor that might offend minors/sensetive people without hurting them, this would instantly solve that without beeing overly complicated"
"is there something lacking in the eula around this?terms of service petitioning does result in action. do you want more visibility on what action is taken per class of offense, in order to judge if it's appropriate?"
"kantana?wtf is that?negates pretty much everything you have to say when you can't even spell your name right. or use a spell check.but then i'm quite prejudiced against a society with an education system that produces idiots like you.does that make me a bad person?"
"in case anyone's interested, here's the stuff i intend to put on the agenda.1"
"what's the point in the deadline? nobody seems to be keeping it."
"csm formal meeting 9. sunday 17th august. 16:00 hours eve timeagenda:announcements:1. the \"nano-nerf\" implications as per dev blog - popular issue - putting this on the agenda again because by the time of this meeting we will have had a further two weeks of testing the sisi changes and plenty of feedback to give a csm statement on the speed issue and impact on gameplay and pvp balance in eve online.2. changing carriers combat roles - bane rearranged issue from august33. prime fiction for the 3rd bloodline more needed - jade rearranged issue from august34. motd for fleet/gang window - jade rearranged issue from august35. local chat replacement/removal + here + here removing local as an intel tool - jade/tusko 6a. proper bounty hunting for eve - dierdre/arithron6b. proper mercenary profession support for eve - dierdre/arithron 7. improvements for rigs - hardin/omber8. mission improvements - ank9. forum change issues - lavista this topic technically breaks the 7 day discussion rule but i'm inclined to make an exception due to the importance of the issue10. ui fixes link to follow - inaana11. specific alternative to speed changes mwd disables weapons -jade12. slash commands - dierdra13. small anchorable structures - ank14. ship modifications - lavista15. radical change to 0.0 sovereignty sov \"points\" from activity -jade16. remote destruction of jump clones - ank17. using isk towards real world charities -jade19. drone disconnects and quirky behaviour + here -ank20. gang/fleet bonuses for single race fleets -jade21. more crossfactional ships -ank22. specific adjustments to 0.0 sovereignty - jadeaob any other business additions can be submitted prior 18:00 hours friday 15th august"
"please, at least publically show some respect towards the csm."
"he seems to have a legitimate point. lavista vista does"
"dude, i'm just asking a valid question.why would i have to stress out during the week, in order to write up these documents, when i could write then up during saturday?"
"hahahahahamotd's, slash commands, prime fiction. wtf?way to go for the \"big picture\", guys.hahahahaha"
"redefining the chair we have seen quite a bit of drama revolving around the chairman position latelyok, since forever really. it's pretty obvious whyno offense to jade, but i frankly also think that a lot of the buzz was not called for. one of the main points being made in the arguments, is that jade is the chairman of the csm, thus represents the council, or at least so people seem to perceive it. i think this is a bad position to put the whole council in. thus, i personally think that the chairman position should be reworked in order to avoid such situation as well as giving it a more fitting title.here is how i could see it working out better:executor:the job of the executor consists of several things:1. acting as a mediator to solve any issues2. plan meetings3. supervise the meetings as a fall-back moderatormoderation is meant as leading the discussion, just like we have a moving \"chairman\" right now, the owner of any certain issue will direct the discussion from start to finish. this concept should be brought onto the next csm, if not as a guideline.this accomplishes that we now take the chairman can not put the council in a bad light, due to the fact all council members are equal. the position should be voted on, unlike the current chair position.what do you guys think? it's basically a way for streamlining the council and lessen the increasing apathy from players."
"the fact that there seems to be a ranking system inside the csm dependant on how many people voted for a given delegate seems to prove the fact that members of the csm aren't treat as equals.i'm not going to get into a slagging match, i'm tired of it and i've made my point in the past perfectly clearly and with a lot of support.if i can say anything constructive, i'd say that there needs to be a lot more ccp interaction with the csm, not just these meetings in iceland every so often.i'd like to see a member of ccp permanantly devoted to chairing the csm, with the delegates selected by the community to meet with him, and speak to him on a regular basis in these meetings.what this would do is make sure that all the delegates are treat equally, and that no one has, or is seen to have the \"power of veto\" sorry for the pun, not intended although i'll happily use the free plug.the csm delegates need to be equal in stature, and need to report back to ccp in a manner that gets all their voices heard. at present, look any any of the meeting agendas and you can see who's issues are being pushed forward the most.i'd like to see a ccp chairman who organises and moderates all the meetings, with the csm there to meet with him and speak to him with all delegates on equal footing."
"i don't see the bias in the selection and raising of issues. everyone is free to raise issues, the fact that the chairman coincidentally happens to be the person who raised the most issues is irrelevant as it's not reducing the ability or acceptance of anyone elses issues.iirc and would be good to have facts/stats on this issues that are raised and not well thought out, don't get voted through. as a result the chairman has more than his fair share of rejects."
"i'd agree with this, especially now with ccp taera being brought onto the ccp team. i believe that her job description involves community liasion duties. at the very least, a member of ccp needs to be present at each csm meeting in order to be able to reply to queries that can be answered with a simple yes/no.example: \"with the recent dev blog on forum changes there is a lot of speculation that ccp doesn't intend to run the alliance tournament in future. can you clarify whether this is true?\"queries that need a slightly longer answer can be researched and the answer given at the next csm meeting. ideally for ongoing issues that ccp have said that they're working on they should be providing progress reports to that the playerbase can beconfident that it truely is being worked on and not being fobbed off with \"it's coming soon\"example: \"with regards to the earlier meeting regarding skill queue ideas, the playerbase have requested that an update be provided as to which ideas have been considered, which ideas have been totally ruled out and how far along any acceptable ideas have gotten in the implementation phase\"meanwhile, the really big issues can be collated and hammered out in the face to face meetings, thus satisfying ccp's vision of their iceland meetings with the csm being used for dealing with big picture issues / long term vision ideas.example: all the various ideas for changes to 0.0"
"regarding the proposition by lvv,i'm appreciative of the csm but to be blunt, from day one i've found various organizational aspects detracting from what could genuinely be an asset to both new eden and the subscriber base. this isn't satisfactory. therefore i'm generally in favor of what you've written and would like to see it move forward.though i can't say for sure what immediate impact it would have regarding the apathy if not outright hostility that has been expressed recently, perhaps in the long term there will be improvements in perception realized."
"i should say that i consider my role as chair to include supporting a share of good issues that don't ordinarily fall into the interest categories of other csm delegates. when we get to the end of the term i'll post a retrospective account of the session listing the various issues i advocated alongside my reasons for supporting - people are free to read and assess the decisions. i'll also post a personal voting record so my actions in office are clear as can be. this general charge that i'm supporting nothing but a personal agenda is a common accusation - but its often the case that people look at the early items on agenda tagged with jade and jump to the conclusion that these things all come from sf people or my mates but a little examination of the issues involved will quickly disprove this misapprehension of the facts. just take a look at this week's agenda thread for an example of jumping to conclusions ... the agenda wasn't even complete before people started jumping up and down and yelling \"bias bias bias!\" - some people are never happy if they don't have something to moan about.-protip. i don't do the final ordering of the agenda until past the submission deadline where i arrange the order to give delegate's issues a fair priority in the order. delayed issues from previous meeting are first - then each delegate gets alternate issues 1 each till we get to the surplus at the end. in this weeks mix i'm presenting issues from players associated with: razor, iron, pandemic legion, electus matari, the red skull, goonswarm and 13th udorian rangers - i'd say that was a pretty diverse mix of interest groups to be quite honest.anyway, i think we're doing the best we can in the circumstances and those csm's that choose to run again for election will be accountable for their actions in office during this term and all is good. those people who decided not to run in this inaugural council might well throw their hats into the ring in the autumn and perhaps next time round we'll get a council of people who can make us look like amateurs!"
"i frankly think this is an excellent idea."
"i'd fairly strongly disagree with this. the csm is a creature invented by ccp but not *of* ccp. i don't feel that the practical working relationships which have grown within the csm would exist with an external chair and, as such, we wouldn't get so much done. the csm needs a bit of to-and-fro during discussions and to make that way more formal - as would happen with a ccp chair - would quell that.iz"
"toman, your analysis is precisely why i've been pushing for off-grid objectives for the sov tools. suddenly sov warfare becomes a whole hell of a lot more interesting.can we get a full proposal draft working on the speaker's corner before going to csm? kelsin, fahtim, and i already have dead proposals. there are many, many more. i'd like to clean one up to a great extent and make sure it builds momentum fast, as if starting off with multiple architects from different sides of the galaxy isn't a good sign."
"what we need is a delegate to read this thread, or at least pages 4 and 5, and have them start the thread and sponsor it onto the meeting."
"just after reading this, i was using a lighter to light some coals. the top popped off randomly and i thought nothing of it only to discover that the lighter itself had completely caught on fire while i was holding itwtf? it's on fire? in my hand? i'm going to sue bic and donate the funds to ccp to build a much faster server so we can fix lag and drop this whole proposal down the toilet. i should probably go check that my living room hasn't also started spontaneously combusting.we should write up a proposal draft for said csm's and get them to support it. otherwise it looks like csm 1 is supporting csm 2's proposal and i'll be amazed if that isn't used later as de-facto ego spam."
"this trivializes sov warfare and lets any small gang chip away the sov of a thousands-strong empire.no it doesn't. this new sov warfare system is more immune to small gang harassment than the current system is.under the current system, if you find a small pos with no guns, you could park a cap-stable geddon there all night and fire at with t1 ammo and blow it up if no one came to stop you. under this new system, you must have a fleet to take down the sov-holding structures. the planetary bases, which are the sov-holding structures, are invulnerable to attack unless the majority of their satellite defensive modules have been incapacitated. those satellite modules are self-repairing on a pretty short timer. any small gang that tries to take down a planetary base is going to be stuck playing whack-a-mole with the defensive modules and never be able to hurt the planetary base.what the new system allows is a role for small gangs of sub-capitals to split off from the main fleet and pursue sub-capital sov objectives in support of the activity of the main fleet. without the rest of the fleet there, the small gang is useless. without the small gangs, the main fleet the cap fleet is useless. everyone is working together in the same system at the same time."
"the proposal supplies a means for gangs of raiders to temporary disabled alliance moon-mining. unless something is added to balance that out, it will hurt the overall profitability of living in 0.0 and increase the pain of it. so, there's another angle to work into the proposal because in fact the profitability of living in 0.0 needs to improve somehow, not get worse.maybe instead of improving the profitability, which is difficult because of market dynamics, we can decrease the cost. we're already changing some things about pos. while we're at it, let's decrease the up-front costs and overall upkeep costs of pos.these are not complicated changes.- decrease the cost of pos and pos modules. this can be done by decreasing base costs and by increasing the drop rate of faction pos bpcs.- decrease the rate of pos fuel and trade goods consumption.- increase silo capacities so that pos require less tedious maintenance.all of this needs to be in the same proposal. the problems in 0.0 cannot be addressed piecemeal because they are all interconnected. you cannot design a sov warfare proposal that does not affect 0.0 profitability, so both have to be addressed at once."
"second draft, adding some language about profitability in the face of potential raiding. keeping it in broader terms is probably smart since ccp will be handling the exact nature of that sort of change.recommended changes to 0.0this issue focuses on three areas of changes to improve gameplay in 0.0 sovereignty warfare:1 improvements to sovereignty warfarechanging the sov-claiming structure from moon-anchored pos to planet-anchored bases.2 raidable logistics/support infrastructureremove sovereignty-claiming from moon-anchored pos, reduce automated defenses and move most modules outside control tower shield to open them up to attacks by raiding subcap gangs. pos would then be focused on specific non-sov claiming roles such as: mining/industry, jump bridge, cyno jammer, planetary defense.3 invader tools/titan rebalancingto account for the above changes, removal of aoe effect from doomsday device, to be replaced with single-target anti-capship weapon and staging area shield ability.these three areas of change combined are intended to make sovereignty warfare more fun and multi-faceted and provide for better gameplay at the siege level as well as offer tangible raiding objectives for small subcapital gangs.improvements to sovereignty warfarethis change primarily hinges on moving the basis of sovereignty from moon-anchored pos to planet-anchored bases, supported by planetary defense modules anchored on separate grids surrounding the planet. a new siege mechanic is introduced to make epic battles over these planetary bases more interesting.the planetary basethe planetary bases primary purpose is to establish sovereignty over a solar system. secondary roles could include acting as a fuel depot for pos at moons in orbit around the planet, to ease fueling logistics. additional functions could also be added.when attacked, the planetary base follows much the same path as current pos siege mechanics, with one new addition:upon the expiration of the reinforcement timer, five planetary defense modules anchored in separate grids surrounding the planet come online. in order for the main fleet to inflict damage on the planetary base, 3 of the 5 pdms must be disabled. when disabled via damage, a pdm will go into a short 5-10 minute downtime to repair itself. once repaired it will come back online and resume supporting the planetary base. thus, attacking forces must continuously suppress the pdms around the base while the main siege force attacks the base itself.the defending force must anchor the pdms, but they are dormant and can be scanned down but cannot be targeted until the planetary base exits a reinforcement timer.options for making the pdm mechanic even more interesting include having them govern the heavy guns that defend the planetary base, so that suppressing them deactivates the guns to aid the main siege force.new roles of moon-anchored player owned stations + raidingwith the movement of sovereignty mechanics to planetary bases, moon-anchored pos are free to be refocused as logistics/support facilities, and can be re-balanced to be targets for smaller raiding forces to inflict financial and logistical damage.automated defenses can be downgraded to be on a level consistent with attacks by small to medium size subcapital gangs. facilities at the pos are made vulnerable to attack in a fashion similar to station services, so that raiding forces that can infiltrate enemy territory can inflict financial damage by halting production, research, moon-mining, theft of resources, etc. actual destruction of modules requires the destruction of the control tower itself."
"the economic model of moon-anchored pos should be re-examined with these changes to account for the potential disablement of facilities or theft of resources via raiding. the balance and risk of spreading industrial activity across a broad area, out of response reach of defending forces vs. a smaller better secured area should be a definite choice. decreasing of maintenance costs perhaps via discounts through collective fueling at planetary bases are recommended.the potential for stargate anchored gate guns similar to those found in low-sec can be considered  so that raiding forces with aggression towards the sovereign alliance will be under fire during their escape from enemy territory.invader tools/titan rebalancingto accompany the above changes, a new tool must be added to the arsenal of invading forces and the aoe damage element of the doomsday device must be changed. these two changes can be taken together to give a new tool to the titan in exchange for reducing the power of its signature weapon.in place of the aoe damage element of the doomsday device, it is recommended that the device be changed to a powerful single-target blast designed to be attack enemy capitals and supercaps.in addition, to provide for increased ability to stage forces in enemy systems prior to sieges, a pos-caliber shield is recommended as a new module for the titan, allowing it to temporarily create a safe zone in empty space to act as a staging ground. with this addition the titan will truly be a mobile battle station.conclusiontaken together, these changes will improve the fun and variety of warfare in 0.0 space for all levels of force deployment  from the raiding small gang all the way up to the epic siege battle."
"i think fahtim can just post it when we're happy with it. the fact that it is a collaborative effort and we're all supporting it will help, and toman can follow up with his faq."
"kelsin,\"unsecured by policing\" language that will unnecessarily evoke a bad reaction. try, \"out of the reach of fast-responding defenders\" or something. the implication is that that the defense vs. raiders is an event-driven thing just like fighting any other hostile roaming gang, and no one expects people to patrol their territory. if people want to warp from tower to tower in the territory on the off-chance they encounter an enemy gang, more power to them, but most people will balk at the suggestion.also, not all planets have 5 moons. many planets have none. the pdms just need to be place off-grid, 1 au away from the planetary base or something."
"sounds good, i'll make some edits.edit: done. let me know if i missed anything."
"you go ahead and post it; you're the author here. i'll support ofc, and i'll add my two isk plus some links to key posts in these discussions when i get a chance.also my account is gonna lapse soon so i won't be checking often."
"lol you cause lag in busy systems too. does that mean ccp should turn ship graphics into stick figures? wouldn't it be cool if you logged in one day, and everything sun, space, stations, planets, ships, objects looked like stick figures drawn by a 5 year old on a blackboard? but hey! no lag! methinks maybe asteroids is your game.maybe try turning all the \"effects\" stuff off, and see if half the problem is your machine. that there is server side lag in fleet battles is an old horse that has already been beaten to death several thousand times. blaming missiles and drones is laughable. its a hardware issue. please feel free to stop by the biomass recovery unit on your next login."
"yes, to the first question, and no to the second question.drones are piddly small. they are fast, hard to target, and hard to hit. one single drone, even if it was as small and as fast but did 5x the damage, would mean someone would just need to get one lucky shot in to do several drones' hps worth of damage in one good shot... or would not need to acquire a new target, making it easier to take them down. also require them separate if you want to run multiple types of drone, or attack multiple targets.i see what you are saying about drone lag and performance, but there are good gameplay reasons to keep drones as they are. suspect the answer is better math processing server side there is a cost to having a single server with so many players - and that cost is massive amounts of parallel processing required."
"in this case only one delegate felt strongly enough about the issue to pass it, so personally i consider it 1/9 and fail."
"like i said, irrational. abstention != opposition. both are clearly defined, and they are fundamentally different."
"i just don't think abstention should be an option, at all, for delegates in a 9 member csm. if there were a few dozen, then individual abstention would not be a problem.i agree that abstention and opposition stem from different motives, but in this context they should have the same effect on a vote."
"abstaining in a vote is the act of withholding ones vote while at the same time acknowledging ones presence during the vote. thus a vote is not cast, but the voter is still counted as being present for the purposes of, among other things, verifying a quorum exists during the vote. a vote in which 8 people abstain and one person votes up or down is decided by the one person who voted up or down.this is the protocol used throughout the world regardless of the size of a quorum. abstention is neither opposition or support. i'm genuinely puzzled this is still an issue in regard to the csm meetings. you'd think if it were, the csm representatives might have availed themselves of the international expertise found in the moderator used during the csm/ccp iceland meeting. y'all ought to look it up. there's certainly enough documentation on the subject.windjammer"
"i know of a couple bodies that ban abstention, so it is possible. however, given the nature of the meetingstaking place over a chat channel, someone who wants to vote \"abstain\" but can't will just vote \"afk\" instead, and there's no way to disprove it. banning it is thus entirely pointless, and thus it should be allowed, so that we at least get a record of the abstention, rather than someone just trying to sneak one by."
"you guys are confusing me - didn't ccp get back to them and say that it takes 5 yes votes to escalate, period? in that case an abstention is the same as a no, because it's withholding a yes vote."
"then ccp is being irrational too. also, i'm pretty sure that they did not say that, because 4/7 is sufficient. seriously people, don't force a chiltern hundreds solution on the council."
"well technically an issue can be escalated with 4 votes if we are sitting on bare quorum of 7 csm/alternates but it takes 5 if we have 8 or the full nine. and yes, ccp did tell us that they intended abstentions having no role in the council voting."
"yay ccp."
"now, if only i could get a little \"thumb up of approval\" for your post."
"you need to email mods@ccpgames.com; they aren't omnipresent. i've sent 'em an email, rest is up to them. comedy thread though. 0.0 is easy? lolzor. if it was so easy, >80% of the server population wouldn't be sitting in empire."
"the seats are more comfy there."
"i have been playing eve for 3 months now, and i think there is something missing.when i read discussions about bigger ships getting more useless versus smaller ships and drones. so i got the following thing in my mind: does a real battleship turns its 16'' guns on an airplane ? becouse that pilot would be laughing itself to death.... no, its has special guns to take down airplanes .50 cal, and , 20mm uss washington had 65 30mm and 50mm cannons, and nowadays phalanx and goalkeeper systems. and that leads to the following idea, maybe it is possible to create close range defence turrets/guns, that would work on the same principle as defenders1, or just work like a turret that spreads fire through an area the size of an small smatrbomb radius2.1 - a type of ammo-eating gun that shoots low-calibre explosive shells very fast 5 shot bursts at every 1/2 secs at anything at close range, missiles drones and ships very low damage to ships, becouse the ships armor and shields would be too strong to penetrate. >1 damage. but of course with very low accuracy a high tracking speed, but a wide spread, so that is has a change to hit it, but not a high change. what would result in a very lucky hit to hit a missile, and that it will hit a drone with luck, but that would happen more often becouse there longer around you.  they would do more damage to drones then to ships somewhere 1-10, depends on how close they hit and the calibre. --> of course the bigger the ship the bigger the defense guns would be, example: a frigate would have around 10mm explosive shells, with an explosion radius of about 5m, and an battleship woud go towards 50mm explosive shells, with about 15-20m radius, so it haas a higher change to hit, but it also needs bigger ammo --> higher costs.2 - this idea works more like the style you would see in battlestar galactica, guns that just shoot explosive shells anywhere withing an radius  1000 for firgate, up to 3000 for a battleship? this would of course be firing faster, and probably couse bad vision or lagg in greater numbers and cost more ammo. the turrets would then take up a turret or a high slot probably a turret slot, creating new slots would probably result in a great deal of designing also, the amount of turrets would also bepend on the sise of the defense turret  1 turret on a small sizes defence turret [.] frigate, destroyer, 2 turets on medium sized turret[:] cruiser, battlecruiser , and 4 [::] on a large sized defence turret battleship and even more for capital ships. the dots between the [ ] would be turrets on a single turret slotand of course, battleship or capital sized defence guns would do more damage to small ships, but more to scare off light ships to let them get some distance so that they are easyer to hit with long range weapons, then to really destroy them.would probably result in something like this : defence gun this would greatly increase the ability to defend yourself agains drones, and battleships versus frigates/interceptors. and of course, cargo haulers would probably love to have it. at least i would now whats your opinion on this?"
"you could just down size the turrets on ur current ships to medium or small, use light drones to kill drones, smartbombs kill drones.eve already had this option its just making it avliable by thinking outside the box.just my personal opinon"
"streamlining the council and issues.i have been on about this a few times by now. but one of the major issues that is being had with the council at present, as i see it, is how issues are handled. what interesting is, is that it's fairly easy to put them into fine boxes in a sensible way. and i frankly think that is what is needed in order to make the council more effective.looking at the issues being raised, we see following types of issues:* feature ideas* fixes wantedcorp ui being wanted, drone behaviour being bad, etc.* questions about certain thingsalliance tournament, for instance* ships modifications* everything elsein order to make the task of putting together and answering all these things, we need to streamline the handling. what the csm can do, is fairly simple: tell the difference between them all and submit them in different ways.lets try and look how it would work.feature ideas: these documents would flesh out the aspects of the feature and how it would benefit the game. the current document we have is very well suited for this.fixes wanted: it should describe the current mechanic's faults and short-comings. it will have to describe how it would work out better, eventually by giving examples or ideas for how else it could work. for instance in the case of the corp ui, some graphics-wizard could pump out a few drafts for how the ui could look.questions: these are easily put into a list of questions, rather than being fully fleshed out like feature. these would be submitted to ccp as one big list and answer is expected to be handed back on the first day of meetings. no discussion should be had on all topics, unless 1 the csm has questions for ccp or 2 ccp didn't understand the question or wanted further feedback on the question.ships modification: link. preferably, the amount of these should be extremely limited, if not done at all. but the streamlining idea for this would be to submit a document which contains a description of the issue with the ship, as well as providing ideas for how to change the attributes. this should be formatted in the same way as patch-notes on ships changes are done.everything else should be using our current standard document.this will allow the council to be more effective in regards to getting questions to ccp and for ccp to answer them all. thus, it's mutually beneficial to everybody. what do you people think?credits: sheriff jones for coming up with the streamlining idea for getting answers to simple questions."
"personally i think you're working along the right lines vista, however i'd have to disagree on the \"ship modification\" part.there are too many people on these forums who have a \"i know everything about eve\" attitude and think they know how to balance the game better than ccp. i'm still firmly of the belief that the csm should not advocate ship or race changes at all, but focus more on new content development and game mechanics streamlining such as the overhaul of pos, the overhaul of the sovreignty system and the removal of bugs and issues with the game and it's engine.too many people seem to be using the csm foums as a way to show their hate of the latest fotm fittings and ultimately it's wasting the csm's time. ccp play the game, if there are issues with ships they'll adjust them as appropriate."
"ship mods should be called balancing issues. either way, we should escalate replacement of the forums to a web2.0 solution."
"proof that ss works in marketing^"
"do you differentiate between the following issues?\"let's change the power grid on the night hawk.\"versus\"we need to re-think the titan dd\"or\"lets re-think cap ship roles so that they don't directly obsolete sub-capitals for so many purposes.\""
"yes, those are different kinds of issues."
"is there anything regular joes ought to do in accordance with what you wrote?is there some place where we can see the submission document formats you use?"
"nope, not at all. this is all something that has to be done by the council. the current submission format we use, is right here."
"well we could start a trend of, instead of putting [issue] in front of thread titles, putting:[feature][fix][question][balance]to indicate what kind of topic it is."
"i approve of both kelsin's and lvv's ideas here. and serenity, you already have escalated a thread entitled \"fix the forums!\", i should hope that's enough. it was generic, i admit, but i'm sure ccp and everybody else knows exactly what i meant."
"they're different kinds of issues, however as far as ccp are concerned they're all lumped under the \"balancing category\" and smart enough + need to work out a solution for themselves and come back to the players.i agree on the point about the forums replacement already been raised enough to be the dead horse we're already flogging. p.s. i work in the internet/mobile industry, not marketing!"
"starting trends ftw!"
"i have mixed feelings on this. it's an interesting idea, but it also seems geared toward giving a sizable advantage to the defenders and their friends."
"its actually not that bad of an idea"
"it makes sense that people who own the space and who have installed the proper intelligence infrastructure to have an intelligence advantage."
"i agree completely. in fact, it would we strange not to.i like this idea, but i'm interested in how recon ships would affect this network idea. would system survey be some innate ability, would it be improved by some skill and/or do you need to install a module on your recon ship?"
"very interesting idea. 2.2 questions;1 how do you see this impacting the mobility of players within the eve universe?eg. will players and corporations will tend to stick in one location because of the barrier to establishing such intelligence2 if players tend to stay in one system/constellation/region what would be the impact of that on:2.1 trade eg. more differentiation in markets2.2 player experience eg. i played eve for 2 years and never left my system/constellation/region"
"interesting idea - obviously needs some working on, but bookmarked to check out at a later date"
"amazing. few players are able to give this detailed of an example. i think the csm should pick this up simply because it is very well thought out. obviously needs a little bit of tweeking to work effectivly.one recomendation from me. have a level 0 base network in each system regardless of sec status that shows number of ships only. not friendly or hostile status just the number of ships and how many are entering / leaving."
"i don't think it will have this kind of negative effect. it will just cause people to be smarter and more cautious as they move around. if intelligence was gathered and distributed depending on standing towards the sovereignty holding npc faction or player alliance, it would still act as an early warning sign to rightful miners/ratters and would give incentive to hold space and interact diplomatically."
"bump great idea, why is no one still talking about this?"
"because we've already supported it?keep them coming."
"we have not yet send our second batch of issues to ccp. it was supposed to be included in the first, but there was made a mistake, which made it not arrive on time."
"signed"
"not going into long talk, here is the problem. should you be a pilot that has negative standings for a certainany pirate faction it is impossible to raise the faction standing back up again if it is below -2.empire agents appear to work like this: 1. faction standing below -2 = unable to use faction agents 2. positive standings acquired through gang missioning to a corp = can use that corps agents. 3. gangs can be used to get ruined factional standings back up by doing storyline missions.0.0 pirate agents appear to work like this: 1. same as empire agents. 2. positive standings acquired through gang missioning to certain npc corp = still cannot use even that corps agents if faction standing below -2. 3. cannot acquire faction standings through gang storyline missions.current solutions are:1. don't ruin the standings.2. get another account or make another char on the same account and train that up to do the missions.that being said, we all start in empire and most of us run missions to make money. when we get enough of empire and decide to move to 0.0 if any us want to do missions for pirate factions most of us are limited to choose from them and some can't do any pirate missions and there isn't any way to get pirate faction standings back up. there should be a way to do that.solutions:1. make it possible to gain factional standings to pirate factions by doing gang storyline missions.2. if not storylines then at least make it so that if you have a positive standing gained by gang missions to a npc pirate corp that its agents alone can be used.3. some way to level out pirate faction standings, perhaps getting sufficient amount of some sort of dog tags and donating them to the pirate factions as \"bribes\" that allow to get them to -1 or even -1.99 to be able to use the worst agents of that factions corps at least.4.another solution.edit: this is not taking criminal connections or diplomacy skills into account. if those are taken into account then you can have more that -2 with a pirate faction and be able to use their agents."
"the obvious fix is to have gang completion of storyline missions result in faction standings changes for all members of the gang. the fact this isn't in place at the moment is actually rather perplexing - it makes negative standings absolutely irrecoverableand large swathes of empire thus absolutely inaccessible with no possible recourse, assuming you annoy the allied factions enough as wellwhich is, of course, entirely possible. i don't like actions that cannot be fixed somehow."
"/signedsounds a little too unfair to me.future naglfar pilot"
"yes"
"signed"
"how have i not supported this yet? i think they need more of a boost than you suggest, but that is a minimum."
"hell yeah!"
"a must!"
"blackops shouldn't be a solo pwn-mobile.i am all for boosting black-ops fuel-efficiency, jump range, and jump mechanics cyno into jammed systems; but not their offensive/defensive capability. in my mind, the black-ops class is along the logistics theme, hence why it can jump other ships in - let the force recons and stealth bombers do all the fighting.re: deep space transports = solo transport-mobile 35k of cargo. could the jump harmonics flag be introduced here? make the dst's useful to bring along, but still require more fuel than other ships of the same mass. increased cargohold offset by increased fuel usage."
"sounds good"
"nanos may need a bit of toning down, but these changes are absurd."
"against, but only because it seems ccp will bork it all up worse with their proposed changes than it already is."
"againstthe intention is good, but the approach is all wrong. don't nerf speed as an entirety just because it's being used generously in pvp. and let's all face it, blobs are not fun. if i hadn't already given up pvp for the foreseeable future, i would threaten to give up pvp! <insert angry fist shaking here>"
"/signedwhy does ccp hate my brutor roots?"
"against!"
"against"
"against"
"cheers felystasheer insanity. a scrambler shutting down your microwarp drive will turn all frigs into flying coffins."
"yes primary and secondary sounds good. i'll throw in a third suggestion which would be for the skills to bleed on to the next one if you don't switch over obviously to the maximum level v and then stop."
"two options should be avail. primary and secondary skills... this is give flexibility for players and makes players logon. the second option should be the 1 - 5 skill training and it should be the default setting.. edited cuz i'm stupid"
"sounds good. i'm going to have to agree with ccp that it encourages people to log in, and capping the queue at somewhere around 24-72 hours sounds like a good idea."
"/support.the skill queuing is a great idea, especially for those skills that are 40+ days. means that you can you don't have to be single minded all day!also, those of us that can't play 23/7 and work keeps you away for weeks at a time  it means that we can train more skills when away! instead of rubbish long skills, that you don't need, but you have to train something...i don't like the idea of capping the days training though. i prefere the idea of them both training at half speed, but the ability to train 1 at normal speed!!"
"alot of the caldari missile shps have visable missile launchers on them built in to the design model. ccp just needs to move the missile spawn points to those spots on the ship.and as for the turrets not hitting but visably hitting. yes needs fixed."
"come on ccp, quality over quantity.edit: can't spell for ****."
"i completely agree with this."
"iv lived in all security systems and this will help with 0.0 a whole lot in counting how many hostiles v friendlies there isbut on the pirate side if u jump into a system u wount see there name or show info i think to big of a wall to read and im bored lol so i dnt no which to do suggest or not :d"
"short answer: no, players have their default sevice at their starter faction. if that is not enough, subscribe for a better player/npc service for some isk and done. join a corporation or alliance, and you will get the necessary local service.i'll attempt to presage what would happen if local servicing would come online:in 0.01a. after the happy ganking time, the main difference would be the more usage of recon ships and amount of pos fuel. most of the people in 0.0 can take care of themselfes. those, who would be sticked to one location because of gameplay change, are already sticked to one anyways.1b. less soloing, more gang work.1c. there are many politically claimed, but actually unused solar systems in eve. since local servicing at level3 sould be way more expensive in fuel, than lvl2 and lvl1, these probably would not been used at maximum level, to save resources, so i would not expect maximum level of local service everywhere. also a \"real covered\" system needs more, than 1 network hub in a system, because losing the only one could cause loss of intelligence for the system. to avoid this, big territory claimer alliances could reconsider employing smaller entities in unused areas in exchange of high level intelligence service. this could get more people into 0.0in low sec:1d. agent runners/npcers/miners could make an own, high level servicing level3 network, which provides them just as more safety, than right now actually much more compated to strangers, or they could join a faction network, which is easy and more-less free.1e. those, who are around in low sec, are probably sticked to a faction, so they have faction networks, as alternative. if they dont have, or they are changing position frequently, they will use player connections, alts, recon ships to get intel. subscribing to a public network should be question of isk in most cases.in high sec1f. concord network and the starter factions network should be enough to get some fortitude and press the jump button on the client, pirates should have a slight disadvantage here, since they are banned form concord network, but they should not belong to hi-sec anyways. also, everyone has alts and many people have 2 or more accounts.since i dont see a chance this happen, actually i should skip this, but here are my answers in case i'm wrong:2.1 market is an interesting question, but not as much, as it sounds at first. i don't think, that neural networking would cause a great impact to trading. since most of the trading is managed in high-sec and by noobcorp alts, most of the trading would stay untouched, use concord network and you will be fine. for the rest, like moving stuff from low sec to high sec, this system would force people to work in groups, get scouts and recon ships, use your relationships. 0.0 corporations would take the intel organising barrier easily imho.2.2a. all, what would change is just teamwork. loners are the only, who might be in trouble, but as i stated before many time, there is no need of having an own intel source. pay, and subsribe to a service. 2.2b. if ten people are playing together, i can't imagine local service subsription can cause any serious problem. generally, joining a corporation, where there are a bit more experienced pilots, shows directions and solves the \"no access\" problem. less soloing, more teamwork, that sould be the way"
"about recon ships: first i was thinking on an innate ability-solution, but i found this too easy and recon ships were everywhere sooner-later instead of pos modules.then later 1 cpu/1 pwr module fit only like covops cloak with fuel consumption. with a nice balance, this is still a good idea, but players would not like it much, since there are just enough logistics in the game. i agree, let the players just play.so i was thinking a lot on this... currently i'd say, that recon ships, and covert ops class ships should be able to fit a high slot module, which fulfills the hub role. for combat recon ship, this module could give local level 2. for force recon ship level 2 while uncloaked and local level 1 while cloaked. for covert ops, this module should mess up the whole ship setup, but it could provide local level1 while uncloaked, by this way cover ops could be the poor man's the dude, who is on low sp and isk scout.with a system like this, the force recons were sitting cloaked all day long in hostile systems, so i was thinking on fuel consumption for cloaked state to give a chance to the defenders and also a couple seconds of startup delay for the \"magic module\" after decloak.also there should be \"probes\" a good placeholder name is needed, these could be launched from recon launchers and could provide local service on 1-2-3 levels. there should be at least two types from each \"short\" and \"long\", the first type could give intel instantly for a shorter time period, while the second could give the same information for a longer time period, but with a startup delay.managing an own network also would require netural networking skill, or something like that, it should work similarly to corporation management, but easier to be learnt and on wider scale. while probably you wont have 20 000 corporation members in the near future, it's not hard to imagine, that 5 000 - 10 000 people are using a same source of intel. it would be terrible, if at startup noone had the skills and people were flying blind in 0.0... i was thinking on new skills, but i stucked at \"better probes require better skills\" \"mysterious local generator module requires less fuel on each level\", \"probes stay alive longer at each skill level\", \"less cpu to fit \" etc etc.later, if it is needed, ccp could implement the space brother/sister version of awacs. this could happen with the recon ships, like it happened with the interdictors: dictor->heavy dictor. recon+force recon->uber recon. this could have the onboard local scanner by default in exchange of paper armor, or something."
"nice idea/signed"
"i like the idea. it would make eve a lot more interesting./signed"
"thanks for all, who likes my idea. if you really like to support this, please clicky-clicky to the \"check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\" - checkbox also in your comments, just above your name. :"
"i like your initiative and the work you put in it. but there are a few things i disagree with.the biggest issue i have is tools a defending player has over an attacker. it's a common sense idea as it comes naturally to any person who wants to come up with things relating to it. currently we have too many defending advantage tools and not enough attacking tools. many of these tools are tied to sovereignty and poses which are great in the aspect that they are unique to the game and ideally tie into directly home turf vs attacker. but just as it does that it leads us into the blob warfare. assigning more tools to a pos an addition to the current problems we have is a bad thing and promotes more blobbing. this is depsite your suggestion of multiple networks.ideally i think it's an interesting idea in it's own right. however in the current format of eve i do not think it's appropriate to add in. if there were many other features given to attackers then maybe i would reconsider it.despite that i also think level 3 should be level 4 as ship types are too much information. level 3 is not all too uncommon in terms of sov.despite my reservations, i do like is the feel of it though. it seems somewhat more immersive, over current local lists, into what it would be like flying about in a spaceship.i believe eccm makes you harder to detect on a probe so maybe your signal strength and/or signature should have something to do with it. a higher priority on eccm would be interesting although it would make it even harder on raiders as they would be required to use more slots on tools they need to do the job. they already have to fit for tackle and propulsion on top of regular fittings. a tie into black ops battleships and covert cynos delaying things would be interesting.do cloaks prevent detection then?instant info maybe should be delayed a few seconds after decloaking so if cloaks do people have the opportunity to use them and gain the use of them.i am not sure if i didn't catch it in the read but could you use a recon class vessel as its own neural network patching in info to your gang into local? they are recons ya know the possiblity of hacking networks also would be interesting. false positives and crazy stuff like that could be great.so there is potential in your idea really, though i am not sure if you would agree to go with it where i am thinking."
"think i've post this in the wrong place..but still..for those of you that aren't aware, your corporation wallets have several divisions, allowing for seperate funds to be setup, and to make it easier for the corp to work towards a goal.why can't we have personal wallets the same? allow us to split our personal wallets into several divisions, so that those of us already in a corp and don't want to branch off, and create our own 1 man corps can do the same! ever been half way through buying fittings in jita, and run out of isk? ever been trying to save for that expensive module / ship, but you keep piing it up the wall?trying to save all your bounties so that you can afford the uber expensive skill book why is the carrier skillbook more than the dreads btw if we could split our personal wallets, you could always find that extra isk that you hid away months ago! so, what does everyone think?"
"great idea. i would love the ability to tuck money away in random spots. we dont need as many as the corp walle has but maybe 3 divisions. main wallet, backup, and savings.and since they did it with the corperation wallet you know it is possible and easy to impliment.ps phoenix493 please support your idea"
"hehe good point : i fully support this"
"good idea, some people would get a lot of mileage out of the extra tracking that would provide. make it so that there's an option on where particular income streams would come into/out of - say, if i want mission isk to come into division 1, sales isk to go into division 2, and expenses to come out of division 3."
"yes pleaseonly reason i am in a 1 man corp these days is because i need those corp divisional wallets to keep my different business ventures funds seperate.with divisional wallets for my personal wallet, i would have the luxury of being able to join a \"real\" player corp."
"must be done so!"
"nice idea./support topicalso a true long shot *awaits flame*, moar figther skills? :p"
"probably but it has only been a month since they posted ccp's reply.i would expect some form of implant within the next 5 months or as soon as the next large patch deployment.maybe."
"this, please! t2 & named gear would be great to see in addition to drone implants. another idea for an implant would be for providing the user with more drone bandwidth. for example 5mb, 10mb and 15mb of drone bandwidth per respective level of implant.i assume what you mean by \"micha\" is the \"michi's excavation augmentation\" or some such implant for another 5% mining laser yield which i believe sells on various markets for around five hundred million isk. it isn't so much rare in my opinion as that there is only one place to get it and each character can only claim it once, providing they meet the conditions to do so."
"about time."
"ja ja nerf it"
"ch-ch-ch-ch-changesturn and face the strain"
"i do support this nerfalthough i must admit i do miss the dual mwd ravens"
"nerf the nanos!"
"bump for great justice!also checking that i've given my support"
"and make shorcuts for this"
"here is my input to the csm submission document:introsupport for slash commands already existed within the eve client's interface, eg. used for autopilot during beta and gms on a daily basis.areas affectedmacro minersthere is a risk that players using macros may increase with the simplified requirements to only send slash commands rather than the more complex memory cache and pixel reading required today. hardware balancing vs. advantageowners of programmable keyboards such as logitech g15 will be able automatically script ship movements eg. for scouting, spying etc.eg. /destination hed-gpautopilot shortcut key[wait 20 seconds]/destination keberezautopilot shortcut key[loop]on the other hand, with introduction of /slash commands to support and/or extend all the configurable short-cuts, would actually have a levelling effect between players, that don't have sufficient keys on their keyboard to enable all short cuts and those with programmable keyboards.potential solutionsre-enable rights for players to use slash commands, however do not enable any flight control operations that are not already included in the keyboard short-cuts.focus first on slash commands for all the features listed in the client configurable short-cuts."
"yes sounds nice"
"and do not forget to add a penalty on the rigs that currently have none"
"why?"
"/signed"
"ccp read the op"
"i am very interested in hearing what the devs say about this."
"support"
"station hugging must be balanced as well as station campingdock/undock games are annoying"
"i like it."
"looks like the best way to fix the \"nano problem\"."
"/not signedas soon as i sore the mwd turns of all guns and drones i thought wtfwe are trying to reduce nano speed not completly get ride of them this will make ships like interceptors go obsolete id rather have ccp's idea than this crap"
"proposal was voted down by the csm. 2/7. ank and i voted yes but the others were not convinced. specific bit of the meeting log covering the issue is here sorry, but i tried."
"bump because this is still an issue"
"i fully support this. limitations of missions per day per agent won't affect the average player, but the 23/7 mission grinder.the whine will be loud, so ccp won't remove bounty and loot completely. maybe reduce bounty and loot and give out more lp. lp balance themselves like tags. if the faction item market is full of modules, the value of lp will automatically drop."
"yes there is to many goons with +5 implants doing mission in hi sec"
"create some new systems that can't be found on the map but deep in 0.0 the gates can be scanned down, with some difficulty i might add. this leads to a hidden system that might house something of value a storyline or anything really. they could be placed in systems that aren't used very often and some triggers that make them difficult to find.* ancient ruins of civilisations with new technologies* rare minerals and objects to be mined or found* derelict space stations* hazards or alien species* non-human alien races* anomalies* wormholes that jump your ship from one side of the galaxy to another"
"i support this idea. a smaller and a bit faster freighter would be very useful for small corps and miners.i can even see some use in low sec for pos maintanace."
"sounds like something to investigate further."
"it would be a great help and save a lot of faffing."
"perhaps even have the icons of insured and uninsured ships different colors in the hanger"
"low sec needs a boostpirates need a change... gatecamping must be reduced, sentries fortified, pirates need to use probes and scannersjust what the people said before me in this thread"
"pretty self explanatory.skills for drone damage.skills for drone speed.skills for drone resistance.skills for drone control.thank you."
"what? try looking at what skills there are already.1. there are plenty of skills for drone damage. drone interfacing, combat drone operation, sentry drone operation, _____ drone specialization, heavy drone operation, and plenty of ships have drone damage bonuses.2. drone speed = drone navigation3. drone resistance - there's already drone durability. it does the same thing4. drone control - ??? you mean drone control range? number of drones controlled? the ability to give drones different commands? for drone control range there's scout drone operation and electronic warfare drone interfacing. number of drones controlled was originally what drone interfacing did, but drones lagged everything too much so they made it give a 20% boost to drone damage per level, which is effectively the same thing. and finally, if you want new drone commands, you'd have to be more specific."
"oops haha"
"i have long supported various kinds of drone love, but i don't really think it's needed in this case. maybe a resistance skill or an ewar strength skill, since those are about the only ones lacking right now, but most of the ones you proposed are redundant and unnecessary."
"drones are fine."
"1 thing. rogue drone faction ships!!!!i want a rogue drone domi with fewer turret hardpoints, but crazy drone bonuses and a mean tank."
"well drone navigation only ups drone mwd speed i think since otherwise the drones get a tracking problem. so how about a drone tracking skill ? would be a nice to have for sentrys and heavys. and how about a skill that reduces drone signature ? would be a nice to have as well."
"a skill that increases optimal and orbit distance would be nice"
"you mean a faction domi whit double of moros' bonuses? :d"
"aye!"
"this is an exploit in my opinion, thanks."
"even though i use this, it's obviously not fair."
"the op solution need refinement. as it is stated, you have an unacceptrable rule that infringes upon the freedom of players not using the war tactic. the solution must be tailored to fit the scenario. better would be to put the 24 hour clock on any player that engages in combat with a war target. this would prevent the scenario given in the op. it would also allow those who never actually participated in any war action to freely leave.also, per player war dec tags are very unacceptable. if my ceo goes insane and war decs a bunch of merc corps, i surely ain't gonna hang around to see how that goes. and, i don't want his night of drunkeness to follow me around the game for weeks."
"no more corp-hopping... ccp, you've been nerfing pvp and buffing carebears for three patches now, buff pvp."
"exactly. our ceo was a target for the fact of his mission running ship might drop his expensive boosters or such, they didn't and it's gonna cost like hell to replace. i personally think the tactic of having a dummy alt create a corp and the other character jumps in at will then leaves without penalty just as fast is underhanded, dishonest, and to be truthful an exploit. granted the ccp gm's don't see it as such or at least not all of them, but i want this fixed. it's one thing to have one or two characters our of ten or twenty to leave a corp because of war, but to have one lousy character jump out kill a target jump into station and leave the corp in the span of less than an hour, is stupid. my solution, add basic kill rights in a warsorta, if the character who did the killing leaves his corp within 24 hours of the ship/pod kill it should automatically give the killed party a standard kill right, makes it a tiny bit more fair and not hard to implement.kevin"
"ya, must be so!"
"this tactic should be named an exploit."
"my corp a single player hi-sec corp with a pos for research was also decced by an week old corp with a single alt in it. rather than see my pos go poof, i moved on with my main and pos and left these two alts to \"fight the battle\". totally lame, should be named as an exploit i actually petitioned it and was told that it's ok, bah."
"definite exploit. per person wardecs could get complicated though."
"my troll was equipped with the following:6x failpost idea i1x alt1x caldari1x 'hypnos' irony meter3x carebear invulnerability field1x large \"your\" all-caps booster1x large lowsec extender ii3x flame control system ii1x damage control apology post1x flagging expander ii"
"1 i wouldnt be supprized if the account was not only banned but deleated as well by now.2 he most likely has new accounts3 ccp will probably never do this just as they never really do anything that players ask."
"you all clearly don't remember the original intention of the csm.link to the original for those who want it.as you can see he originally envisioned that the csm would help deal with such issues as the t20 incident and the ********** issue.he went to ccp with the problem first and they dismissed him immediately. then he put it on his website publicly and ccp began looking into and asked him to take it down. he did and then all his accounts were banned, so he put the information back on his site.the bpos were not removed until t20 was forced to apologize in a dev blog. that was roughly 8 months after the issue was discovered.what rules did he break? do you have any specifics or is it all your opinion?"
"so you are saying you would prefer the corruption to continue. we will ignore the fact you're named in several issues what if it had been red alliance that got the free bpos?saying that because people got upset for him ruining something they got illegitimately whether they knew or not is a reason to get rid of him and keep corruption is insane. i mean what else do you want?yes, you are right they can prevent people from playing for whatever reason they want. just because they can, doesn't make it a good reason though.the only evidence we have is********** has stated that he himself does not know why he was banned. i don't have a link to the specific post but it was later revealed that he was banned for \"creating undue workload\" which was a result of his whistle blowing clearly contradicting kieron. they may also be trying to blame him for the threadnaught but one person did not do that.in the end you have very little room to comment on this due to your direct connection to ccp so you should probably avoid making more of a fool of yourself. yes i will provide links if you trying calling me out on this."
"sweet i suggested this a lot when i first started playing, amarr/gallente nearly have the same skill backgrounds alos minmatar/caldari makes sense to me. so yeh totally in support."
"why do the navy ships need a boost? they get +50% hp flat, the same two bonuses as everything else, and an extra slot of some variety as well. plus, they only require one race's skills to fly, not two. i wouldn't object to faction bcs though. destroyers might be too narrow, but bcs are good, meaty ships."
"you say that as if the pirate faction ships did not get a hp boost too. in the case of the rattlesnake's shields it is even an almost 100% bonus.the empire factions ships do effectively have one less bonus. first nail in their coffin was the addition of rigs which reduced the advantage the additional slot gives on all but the cnr. then the addition of marauders has further devalued them. so yes, i do believe they need a boost in the form of a 3rd bonus. for all i care they could also increase the lp cost by 50% to reflect that boost, i just want to see them as something special again."
"mmmm faction bc... i like."
"i agree we need more faction ships and maybe boost ships like navy megathron and others to be more better than maybe a kronos or just match it or at least better than hyperions atm u pay 500 mill for a faction navy mega and it can die easyly to a kronos or hyperion"
"gallente/amarr = lasers and drones... no ammo to lug about!"
"buy a logitech g15 and use macro functions on it :"
"funky idea!"
"i agree."
"personally... i think interbus should assess a shipping and handling fee to market purchases only.before anyone starts ranting, just consider it.it leaves courier contracts still a viable alternative to getting bulk cargo moved about. so you don't have to worry about haulers going out of business.but... it would instantly solve the \"jita problem\". when the issue with jita in particular is that everyone wants to cram into the same system to buy and sell their wares...you could manufacture out of one system, and list your products locally. then anyone within the same region could see yours is the best value. they buy it, paying a small fee extra. in a matter of minutes/hours, the items are delivered to their own local station.now no one would have to cram their way into jita. there wouldn't be such a thing as a \"hub\" anymore, since the closest we have to a \"hub\" these days is amazon and ebay.ideas"
"what's wrong with having a hub? it is a naturally occurring phenomenon and one of the cooler things that has evolved in eve.fixed."
"\"naturally\" because that's the only way the market has functioned to date. if you could get items shipped, then hubs wouldn't have developed to begin with.and don't say \"courier contracts\" because they don't work. people are idiots. they want a freighter's worth of cargo moved, with a 500bil isk collateral, and offer about 3.50 isk reward after the 50+ jumps.and \"cooler things\"... do you seriously think that jita causing lag so bad that petitions have to be filed to drag characters out of perpetual client crashes is \"cool\"?"
"not quite...jita is more like the parking lot at a major city's mall. everyone trying desperately to find a parking space, while avoiding running someone over or getting into a fender bender along the way.a \"hub\" only shows poor planning. and the sheer scale of this particular lack of planning... that has lead ccp to dedicate resources specifically to jita itself. servers support several star systems worth of activity... but jita has it's own dedicated servers, because they can't see that a \"hub\" is actually a bad idea in this case."
"i would argue that even with the shipping service, hubs would exist as the small cost of transport would have a non-ignorable cost for cheap bulk items like minerals and fuel."
"the human brain is a hub of the neural network. as are the heart and lungs to the cardiovascular. a server is a hub of information going in and out. the oceans are the hub of the water cycle. hubs are everywhere and will always be the most efficient solution whenever transportation has a cost."
"the fee could be scaled to fit the purchase.if you are buying in bulk, the price shifts.if you are buying very cheap items 25 isk vs 50k isk, the price shifts.but it would all have to stay within reason. otherwise, people could order several freighters worth of ore and minerals, and wind up paying far too much, or far too little.i think having the option would at least reduce the strain. if you intend on buying a couple modules for a new ship... have them delivered. it saves the time and effort of going to get them. if you are buying fuel and parts for a pos for a month... then go get it. in cases like that, you'd only lag based on local mission traffic, and other massive shipments."
"you're missing the key here sir... scale!the brain is a hub, and how large is it in comparison to the rest of the nerves? strip all the nerves from a body, and roll them into a ball, and the brain will be larger than the bundle of \"wires\" you'd have left.heart and lungs... occupying a good portion of the entire torso.the oceans!? you mean... like the oceans that are the majority of the surface area on the planet!?fine examples... if poorly thought out.imagine all the effort your brain, heart, and lungs perform... in the space of your left pinky. that one little digit... doing all that work, keeping you alive and functioning. smack that thing with a hammer... and you're dead.now tell me that jita... one system out of how many... really needs to be the hub of the economy in eve."
"it would certainly decentralize the t2 market a little, but the closer an item sits to perfect competition ore, minerals, being very very close the more centralized it will be unless all costs are eliminated both isk and time - opportunity costs cannot be forgotten."
"it doesn't need to be, but unless all costs of transportation are eliminated there will be a hub, and that was my key point."
"ore and minerals? like the stuff that's in any belt in any system?if you could find a nice quiet 0.5 system... or even an 0.2 system... with absolutely no traffic. and you could mine that thing all day and night, respawn after respawn. and then... you could just drop the ore and minerals at the nearest station, rather than trucking them 20 jumps to the nearest \"hub\"..."
"amazon... ebay...the internet in general.the main reason people go to the mall, or target/walmart/etc anymore, is the instant gratification. they want something, and they want it now.but planning ahead, and knowing \"i want one of those. but i could probably wait a few days for it.\" leads to people ordering off the internet. it'll show up at your door, and all you did was place an order.\"hubs\" develop as a matter of convenience. a place where you're pretty sure you could find something in particular. but these hubs of ours are no longer convenient. they lead people to live odd schedules in the hopes of getting into jita during a lull in traffic, or in buying from somewhere else to skip the hassle entirely.again... i'm sure they'll persist. and i'm sure people will still use them. but i think they'll diminish if the option were available for delivery.do you always drive to pizza hut... or do you like to sit on the couch in your pajamas and wait for the pizza to come to you?"
"the person buying your minerals has to pay the 20 jump npc transportation costs.that will make your minerals more expensive than the same minerals being sold in his system, making it more profitable to sell your minerals at the production hubs.these production hubs will exist because of the mission hubs, thanks to the same process."
"but this now is a different argument, which i disagree with you based on fundamentals. i don't think any npc service should be introduced where it can be player controlled.delivery systems do exist thanks to corps that use the existing contract system. make the contract system better, sure, but don't introduce npcs."
"s&h on small purchases shouldn't slow down commerce that much.and large purchases, like fuel or minerals... could be retrieved manually."
"oh, i've argued for and against the contract system... but i didn't want to start too much into that here as well.that's why i said interbus could handle market purchases only. leaving contracts to handle shipments otherwise.the key flaw with most contracts is the collateral and rewards. people ask far too much, and don't offer near enough in return.one possible solution is to make the reward automatically calculated based on the asking collateral. if you want me to pay 500bil up front... then i'd better be getting more than 3.50 in return at the other end.i understand \"making a machine to do the work of a man, takes away from the man\". but when the man doesn't do the work... the work still needs to get done.i'm not saying \"get rid of contracts, and make interbus do it all\". but i'm saying it would be a solution to a heavily debated problem."
"this this this, a thousand times this. try to improve the contract system, don't just give up and say \"just make it an npc game feature.\"i'm pretty confident ccp shares this player-driven mindset."
"our logo was also submitted before the scrapping of the old process. we need to know when there will be a new process!"
"yes, the system should be functional."
"deleted due to drunkness"
"you miss the point - we fight and we win or we lose. there is no 'hiding', or moving to an npc corp. we're suddenly ninjas, not whatever corp you're in.why ask? they're not his or her wrecks? as far as i'm concerned, they're mine. i'm cleaning up space after them.mission runners??? work??? don't make me laugh."
"you seem more intelligent from your other posts to even bother defending that.. thats an idiots argument, you dont need to stoop to that level :pthat's your opinion i can respect that and to a degree even agree with it.. why let salvage go to waste. on the other hand if a runner wants the salvage and is going to put forth the time skills and effort ships/mods to salvage and loot the wrecks that they put the effort into createing then they should have access to them. even an idiot can see that side of the argument, and if you can't see and agree to some point that view, i wonder where any of the intelligence from some of your other well thought and worded posts come from?while i can appreciate the time skills ships/mods it takes to scan down salvage, this is the work created by the runner and should have some ownership to it... and this really gets me .. the most boreing part of running a mission is the loot and salvage yeah thats part of the mission thanks to the big decrease in value of drops and bounty. to say running a mission is such easy work and salvaging is so hard, then why are you salvaging?the only danger you have is being a complete @@@ and upsetting someone, unless you warp into the mission area while the mission is ongoing. which in my view is like opening your parents door catching them in the act. your invadeing their sanctity and embarassing yourself. where as being some lame drone shooting ships is actually, taking percision keeping up a tank, shooting the right ships at the right time, and even though you do it time after time, the 1 time you screw up, you loose your ship, no recourse, no vindication, no revenge. depending on the salvager if npcs get him then the same situation, if it's the mission runner, then you have a chance at getting a much better salvage :p i'm not saying it's overly difficult but if you think salvaging is on any scale more difficult, i can't think of anyway that it is. both things take time and effort and the risk on either side is looseing your ship, which if someone knows what their doing at either it's pretty much 0 risk."
"if people want that salvage and loot then they should pick it up.if it is left there abandoned then it should be free game. if you truly cared bout the loot then pick it up.there's plenty of salvagers willing to follow you and run clean up in your wake for a small cut.if you aren't going to take advantage of these services then don't complain when one of them does this service anyway. frankly loot shouldn't belong to anyone either. all it is is floating garbage so you shouldn't stand in the way of those who want to collect the garbage."
"the organization of main proposals will be absolutely critical to prevent balking at the complexity. after a lot of thought, i think we should organize a proposal around these three main headings:less tedious starbase logisticsless fueling. moar ships! shift the empire building burden away from mindless tasks of un-funner-ness like setting up pos's towards fun things like pvp and industry *power to the 0.0 carebears..cough*more granularity for warfareeconomic aspects, warfare at the non-sov level, better 0.0 income with higher exposure to disruption. overall boost to 0.0 profit. issues of what happens to the pos since it's no longer going to be a sov tool.better tools of sovereigntyplanetary based structures that are a vast improvement as fight brokers for huge fleet sov-changing battles. multi-grid fights. link to toman's q&a post or a copy of it amended to the end of the proposal. accompanying ship changes for titans etc.if the final draft for proposal is too long, we can make a short summary version and then amend the details in other posts while linking to the appropriatel sub-post."
"*looks through bloodstained eyes*meeting over, after 5 hours and 15 minutes....now i need ummbrains! *hiss!*"
"csm formal meeting 9. sunday 17th august. 16:00 hours eve timeagenda:1. the \"nano-nerf\" implications as per dev blog - deferred to because of sisi rollback2. changing carriers combat roles - bane - voted down 3/63. prime fiction for the 3rd bloodline more needed - jade - escalated 4. motd for fleet/gang window - jade - escalated 5. local chat replacement/removal + here + here removing local as an intel tool - jade/tusko - withdrawn prior to vote since we didn't have tusko's docs.6a. proper bounty hunting for eve - dierdre/arithron - escalated 6b. proper mercenary profession support for eve - dierdre/arithron - escalated 7. improvements for rigs - hardin/omber - escalated8. mission improvements - ank - escalated with edits9. forum change issues - lavista - escalated 5/4 10. ui fixes link to follow - inaana 4 issues all escalated11. specific alternative to speed changes mwd disables weapons - voted down 2/7 jade and ank voted aye12. slash commands - dierdra - escalated13. small anchorable structures - ank - escalated with edits14. ship modifications - lavista - deferred to aob15. radical change to 0.0 sovereignty sov \"points\" from activity -jade voted down 1/816. remote destruction of jump clones - ank - escalated17. using isk towards real world charities -jade voted down 3/619. drone disconnects and quirky behaviour + here -ank bug fix escalated / enduring drones denied.20. gang/fleet bonuses for single race fleets -jade - voted down 1/721. more crossfactional ships -ank - escalated22. specific adjustments to 0.0 sovereignty - jade deferredcsm meeting 9 chat log"
"are the full minutes posted somewhere?"
"to the victor goes the spoils.the the rest goes the scraps the victor does not want."
"while i understand your logic and thinking, i still tend to disagree. if a ccp chairman was put in place and the delegates selected to act as csm members, then i feel the csm would run better, purely because it would actually be someone's job to organise the meetings, set the agenda from what the delegates brought to him, and make sure that it was kept to.there can still be ideas bounced backwards and forwards between the delegates, with no problem at all. the fact there is a csm chairman from ccp wouldn't stop that, or stop you from talking to eachother. all it would mean is that there was a more direct level of ccp interaction than a meeting in iceland every so often, and persistant and unbiased format to the meetings and their agendas."
"i'm going to put on my darius johnson halloween mask and be sure this gets communicated well.0.0 is very, very hard to live in. every pos represents an entire day that someone was grinding needless bull**** and waiting for modules to anchor/online. not to mention paying for the ****.as a proponent of maximum unapologetic, narcissistic fulfillment for 0.0 residents, i propose that the following changes be made to 0.0:1 starbase logistics are needlessly soul destroying get addressed. not slightly. 100%. starbase spam should be trivial.2 instead of using the grinding buffer as a control for empire size, use pvp driven mechanics. a much more thorough and granular mechanic of income/pvp rockage relationship.3 give 0.0 residents much higher income to afford maintaining these empires.the end goal is that the area that can be controlled shall be dictated by the proficiency and participation in pvp of alliances. their industry for capability to support the war effort with regard to building pvp ships that are fun, not towers that suck, suck gas, and destroy souls.end the death star's needless trail of soul destruction. replace it with the heart-warming joy of flying around and playing internet spaceships!!!the philosophy of using the pos grind as an alliance limiting mechanic was so ill-concieved and counter to the non-wow-ness of eve that it must end and be erased permanently from the history of new eden.moar ships! less gas!revolution.v-_-"
"oh dammit.. did i just knee-jerk in a line about small-gang stuff?my apologies. going to check up on the whole thread and be sure i'm not missing the consensus. seems like we're pro-multi-grid sov battles, maybe pro-raiding of pos's only with jacked up 0.0 income, and anti-small-gang sov."
"after a bit of re-reading, i really think the part where the planetary defense platform guns go offline when the orbital defense things are offline is 100% necessary.we've established pretty clearly why the attacker can't 100% ball up. to give the defender reason as well not to ball up, require them to maintain some presence and response capability at the satellite structures.additionally, i'd like to see some mechanic that rewards the attacker for maintaining control at all the defense arrays...something that can be used to feint the defender away from the main structure.an attacker who is holding down all five is going to have themselves spread out, so there's no excuse for the defender not being able to respond in some fashion.the tool is already marvelous for allowing mobility and coordination to hurt a large attacker. needs a little love on the side of allowing mobility and coordination to cost a large defender...unless we're doing that through the moon-mining vulnerabilities etc.what is the opinion of the council of brighter 0.0 on this matter?"
"there is a suspicion that the op has a bee in his bonnet and loves lasers."
"missed that bit. thanks for the update. for some reason i even thought a quorum during a csm meeting was 9 csm/alternates.pity ccp ruled that way on the abstentions. they served a useful purpose.windjammer"
"locked.troll."
"eve doesn't have the gear you seek, but it does fill the role. fit small guns, smartbombs, light drones, or fly with friends. another form of point defence is unnecessary."
"bbosman,one thing you forget is that a few 1 or 2 small craft you are wanting to shoot down like in those pics can actually sink a bs or a carrier. frigates within this game would be be very hard pressed to do so. so drones would be you best bet."
"1 fit smaller guns.2 carry drones.or3 travel with backup. this is a multiplayer game after all... a single ship isn't meant to handle any and all situations that arise. battleships are huge, but they aren't impervious. that's why a couple of tiny frigates will dance around your turret tracking, and pick away at you until you die."
"i completely agree with this."
"iv lived in all security systems and this will help with 0.0 a whole lot in counting how many hostiles v friendlies there isbut on the pirate side if u jump into a system u wount see there name or show info i think to big of a wall to read and im bored lol so i dnt no which to do suggest or not :d"
"short answer: no, players have their default sevice at their starter faction. if that is not enough, subscribe for a better player/npc service for some isk and done. join a corporation or alliance, and you will get the necessary local service.i'll attempt to presage what would happen if local servicing would come online:in 0.01a. after the happy ganking time, the main difference would be the more usage of recon ships and amount of pos fuel. most of the people in 0.0 can take care of themselfes. those, who would be sticked to one location because of gameplay change, are already sticked to one anyways.1b. less soloing, more gang work.1c. there are many politically claimed, but actually unused solar systems in eve. since local servicing at level3 sould be way more expensive in fuel, than lvl2 and lvl1, these probably would not been used at maximum level, to save resources, so i would not expect maximum level of local service everywhere. also a \"real covered\" system needs more, than 1 network hub in a system, because losing the only one could cause loss of intelligence for the system. to avoid this, big territory claimer alliances could reconsider employing smaller entities in unused areas in exchange of high level intelligence service. this could get more people into 0.0in low sec:1d. agent runners/npcers/miners could make an own, high level servicing level3 network, which provides them just as more safety, than right now actually much more compated to strangers, or they could join a faction network, which is easy and more-less free.1e. those, who are around in low sec, are probably sticked to a faction, so they have faction networks, as alternative. if they dont have, or they are changing position frequently, they will use player connections, alts, recon ships to get intel. subscribing to a public network should be question of isk in most cases.in high sec1f. concord network and the starter factions network should be enough to get some fortitude and press the jump button on the client, pirates should have a slight disadvantage here, since they are banned form concord network, but they should not belong to hi-sec anyways. also, everyone has alts and many people have 2 or more accounts.since i dont see a chance this happen, actually i should skip this, but here are my answers in case i'm wrong:2.1 market is an interesting question, but not as much, as it sounds at first. i don't think, that neural networking would cause a great impact to trading. since most of the trading is managed in high-sec and by noobcorp alts, most of the trading would stay untouched, use concord network and you will be fine. for the rest, like moving stuff from low sec to high sec, this system would force people to work in groups, get scouts and recon ships, use your relationships. 0.0 corporations would take the intel organising barrier easily imho.2.2a. all, what would change is just teamwork. loners are the only, who might be in trouble, but as i stated before many time, there is no need of having an own intel source. pay, and subsribe to a service. 2.2b. if ten people are playing together, i can't imagine local service subsription can cause any serious problem. generally, joining a corporation, where there are a bit more experienced pilots, shows directions and solves the \"no access\" problem. less soloing, more teamwork, that sould be the way"
"about recon ships: first i was thinking on an innate ability-solution, but i found this too easy and recon ships were everywhere sooner-later instead of pos modules.then later 1 cpu/1 pwr module fit only like covops cloak with fuel consumption. with a nice balance, this is still a good idea, but players would not like it much, since there are just enough logistics in the game. i agree, let the players just play.so i was thinking a lot on this... currently i'd say, that recon ships, and covert ops class ships should be able to fit a high slot module, which fulfills the hub role. for combat recon ship, this module could give local level 2. for force recon ship level 2 while uncloaked and local level 1 while cloaked. for covert ops, this module should mess up the whole ship setup, but it could provide local level1 while uncloaked, by this way cover ops could be the poor man's the dude, who is on low sp and isk scout.with a system like this, the force recons were sitting cloaked all day long in hostile systems, so i was thinking on fuel consumption for cloaked state to give a chance to the defenders and also a couple seconds of startup delay for the \"magic module\" after decloak.also there should be \"probes\" a good placeholder name is needed, these could be launched from recon launchers and could provide local service on 1-2-3 levels. there should be at least two types from each \"short\" and \"long\", the first type could give intel instantly for a shorter time period, while the second could give the same information for a longer time period, but with a startup delay.managing an own network also would require netural networking skill, or something like that, it should work similarly to corporation management, but easier to be learnt and on wider scale. while probably you wont have 20 000 corporation members in the near future, it's not hard to imagine, that 5 000 - 10 000 people are using a same source of intel. it would be terrible, if at startup noone had the skills and people were flying blind in 0.0... i was thinking on new skills, but i stucked at \"better probes require better skills\" \"mysterious local generator module requires less fuel on each level\", \"probes stay alive longer at each skill level\", \"less cpu to fit \" etc etc.later, if it is needed, ccp could implement the space brother/sister version of awacs. this could happen with the recon ships, like it happened with the interdictors: dictor->heavy dictor. recon+force recon->uber recon. this could have the onboard local scanner by default in exchange of paper armor, or something."
"nice idea/signed"
"i like the idea. it would make eve a lot more interesting./signed"
"thanks for all, who likes my idea. if you really like to support this, please clicky-clicky to the \"check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\" - checkbox also in your comments, just above your name. :"
"i like your initiative and the work you put in it. but there are a few things i disagree with.the biggest issue i have is tools a defending player has over an attacker. it's a common sense idea as it comes naturally to any person who wants to come up with things relating to it. currently we have too many defending advantage tools and not enough attacking tools. many of these tools are tied to sovereignty and poses which are great in the aspect that they are unique to the game and ideally tie into directly home turf vs attacker. but just as it does that it leads us into the blob warfare. assigning more tools to a pos an addition to the current problems we have is a bad thing and promotes more blobbing. this is depsite your suggestion of multiple networks.ideally i think it's an interesting idea in it's own right. however in the current format of eve i do not think it's appropriate to add in. if there were many other features given to attackers then maybe i would reconsider it.despite that i also think level 3 should be level 4 as ship types are too much information. level 3 is not all too uncommon in terms of sov.despite my reservations, i do like is the feel of it though. it seems somewhat more immersive, over current local lists, into what it would be like flying about in a spaceship.i believe eccm makes you harder to detect on a probe so maybe your signal strength and/or signature should have something to do with it. a higher priority on eccm would be interesting although it would make it even harder on raiders as they would be required to use more slots on tools they need to do the job. they already have to fit for tackle and propulsion on top of regular fittings. a tie into black ops battleships and covert cynos delaying things would be interesting.do cloaks prevent detection then?instant info maybe should be delayed a few seconds after decloaking so if cloaks do people have the opportunity to use them and gain the use of them.i am not sure if i didn't catch it in the read but could you use a recon class vessel as its own neural network patching in info to your gang into local? they are recons ya know the possiblity of hacking networks also would be interesting. false positives and crazy stuff like that could be great.so there is potential in your idea really, though i am not sure if you would agree to go with it where i am thinking."
"good idea"
"supported fully. this looks awesome!!!!!!"
"i don't think ganged storylines are the answer, as you would need someone able to get the missions in the first place.maybe introduce or change some existing agents new agents which allow people to do missions to gain standings with the pirate faction i.e. do 16 missions and get to go to a pirate faction storyline agent.the missions should be scaled on your negative standings -0.01 to -3.0 equivalent to level 2 for example.as your standings with the pirate faction increase, the effectiveness of the agent decreases gradually until you can use a normal pirate faction agent.as you are generally hated by the pirate faction i think the mission giver would be an astrosurveying agent equivalent, giving lots of different types of missions, from mining to kill, reducing the effectiveness hopefully of macros in grinding pirate lp's for ships, thus crashing the market in them.i think this would allow those who wish to go the pirate faction route, whether for rp or other reasons, a chance without needing a character who already has pirate faction standings to gang with.whatever else, i think the issue needs to be looked at."
"if it's valuable, there will be a market in it. that's one of the great things about eve. if it were possible right now, my corp would definitely sell faction standings, and i can't imagine we're alone in that."
"incorrect. gangs get agent/corp standings, but get nothing for assisting in completing storyline missions.you are right in that your pirate standings, by the time you can typically enter 0.0, are irrecoverable. all of mine are -8 or worse.imo all 'mission rats' should be of the subfaction type corelli, gist, ect ect and not have any direct impact on the targeted factions.ratting in empire, likewise, should be against the subfaction rats with standing loss only coming from killing command rats shadow, true, ect ect, based on the size of the ship rather than just the current and rather heavy, imo static standing loss.i can attack a player and loose like 0.02%, but attack a rat and it's like 0.8% every 15 minutes.ratting in 0.0 should have standings loss to that faction exactly equal to your concord security status gain."
"it should be easier to repair pirate faction than empire. i'd argue there could be a point-of-no-return for empire, but pirates are killers, thieves, and so on. they shouldn't have much problem accepting you, even after you blazed a bloody swathe through them for profit - a lot of them probably did the same before joining up."
"missions have made it to the agenda so i'll try to mention this. if i can't bring it up i'll support it for the next round."
"while i support the idea of allowing you to fix your standings, i don't think that sharing faction standings in a gang is the answer, as it makes it too easy to build faction standings on an alt.i would suggest making the minumum standings requirement variable with agent level/quality.currently your highest standing must be level*2 + quality/20 - 2.i would suggest making it so that your lowest effective standing must exceed level*2 + quality/20 - 7, instead of the current flat -2.0 minimum standing.this would ensure that you can always work for a level 1, quality -20 agent, if you have diplomacy v. as such your standings can always be fixed.it also rises the barrier of entry for higher level missions, that will counter balance the extreme ease which access to those agents has had since the introduction of shared standings gains.by rebalancing the ease of access to those higher level agents, it ensures that the road to repentance is not too easy for those who have made an effort to offend an entire faction."
"so for a l4q20, i'd need corp standing and faction standing of 2? that seems way too easy. i like the idea, but i don't think your numbers work. i'm almost tempted to say a l1q-160 agent should be added to each factionwith an in-station storyline agent somewhere in lowsec, and otherwise leave the system as is. but really, the gang system is a better one - it's a smaller change, and it makes things work the way that they seem like they should."
"it theory a change on how easy is to recover faction standing when it is in the deep negative is already under consideration, or at least that was some dev said in the threads about faction warfare, as fw will destroy a lot of people standing with half of the empires. adding something for 0.0 pirate corps will be only logic.another good change would be to modify belt rats, at least in the npc rat regions, so that ratting there you will not destroy your standing with the npc station owners."
"i think you misunderstand what i am suggesting: instead of using a fixed value for the lower standings requirement, use a formula similar to the upper standings requirement for the lower requirement.currently a l4q20 agent will not talk to you unless one of your standings is 7.0 and all three of your standings are -2.0.i am suggesting that a l4q20 agent should not talk to you unless one of your standings is 7.0 and all three of your standings are +2.0.if you think that my suggestion is \"way too easy\" what do you think of the current system?right now starting with no standings at all, to gain access to a level 4 agent, you only need to share 15-30 missions depending on the agent's quality with someone who already has access to that agent. that is something that i think is \"way too easy.\"removing the need to run missions yourself to gain faction standings would be beyond \"way too easy.\"my suggestion ensures that l1q-20 agents are always accessible, but also ups the requirements for l3 & l4 agents so that it takes more work with lower agents before they are accessible."
"so you would need an agent standing of 2.0 to talk to the agent? are you saying that people ought to need connections 5 in order to be able to use anything better than a l4q12? i can't support that. that said, if you amend your proposal to merely change the needed faction standing from -2.0 to required standing - 5, i would actually like that. the \"way too easy\" comment was due to a misread of your proposal. also, i don't think mission-sharing is a bad mechanic at all. for disclosure's sake, i've used it to get my current agent of choiceand paid a fairly hefty price to my gangmate to do so, but i approved of the addition of gang completion well before i started using the system. it even makes sense in rp terms - \"yeah, i know he's shot up a lot of your stuff before, but he's been really helpful in doing all that stuff you wanted done. he's not such a bad guy, now is he?\". plus, it makes the current system meet expectations - the fact that you only share some standings changes with gangmates is bizarre and counterintuitive.edit: named wrong skill"
"connections v or run 1-2 missions with a friend as a \"referal\" to get the base standings agent standing: after all we are talking about some of the best agents available.now that you mention it, a cap on the lower standings requirement would be needed to ensure continued access to level 5 agents: don't know where we would want to put that cap -2.0, 0.0, or +2.0 but i am sure that any of those would work fine, with the suggested formula covering lower quality agents.perhaps excluding agent standings, and only applying the minimum requirement to corp/faction standings, would work as i doubt there is likely to be too much of a problem with someone declining missions to select the very best plunging their agent standings and retaining access to that agent with corp/faction standings, since they will lose standings with all three by declining too many missions.the big problem with gang-sharing faction standings is the possiblity for power leveling faction standings gain. currently, you must accept the regular missions in order to gain the faction standings. while you can get help completing those missions, you must be online and playing for all 16 of those regular missions. if you could share storyline standings gains, you would only need to be online for the one mission.having shared missions count towards everyone storyline frequency would run similar problems, as people would be able to get 10 storyline mission accoss 10 characters by running only 16 missions, instead of 160 missions."
"almost done with the gunnery skills for the revelation. . .i know a bad ship when i see one."
"signed."
"about cargo - a cargo-maximized pilgrim not that that ship can be used for much else nowadays with 5 t2 expanded cargoholds and 2 t1 cargo rigs reaches 1400 m<U+FFFD>. while that isn't that terribly much less than a spped optimized blockade runner and *far* less than a cargo optimized deep space it is still plenty for fuel and possible loot. unless you plan to steal a full pos base.the problem i see with a deep space transports is that it can be used to carry a whole pos base with it and i am not sure if ccp wants the main use for black ops ships to establish surprise bases. because thats what likely will happen if they can carry large amounts of equipment into hostile territory."
"bright indeed"
"supported"
"putting these fitting jobs up as a regular manufacturing job there would be no more of a load than if we had a number of smalltime producers going at it.fitting ships automatically at a factory should take a good while though as to give the manual fitter an edge still."
"we invented automation, machinery, and tools generally for a reason. there is no need to push people towards doing an easily automatable process by hand."
"would you trust a machine to pack your parachute for you? some things you may want complete control over, that's why i'm proposing leaving the manual fit in, for the control freaks among us."
"i'm not saying manual fitting should be eliminated. it's fine. i'm saying there should be no penalty time attached to automatic fitting."
"support from the lazy"
"against."
"damn good idea. one more way to alliance overlords to extort the sh*t out of their plebes.give cov-ops bs this ability as well, allowing infiltrators to have an accurate assessment of system activity. it shows names, standings, docked/undocked/shielded status, but only functions while the bs is cloaked. finding & decloaking it kills the infiltrator's sub-info network.also, the *basic* level local network would show activity timer so you know when that cov spy is afk. :d activity means warping and scanning, not just a mousetwitch every 15 seconds, or the 'afk' pilot active in multiple random channels, ect.the eve client should be more anal about activity timers and detection algorythms and once it suspects a cloaked ship is afk for more than, say, an hour... esp if some activity macro behavior is detected, it decloaks the ship. if a macro is detected it warps the decloaked cloaker to a belt. if they're not afk they'll freak out over this and react quickly... thus, they're actively playing!"
"nice idea. may i suggest instead of tieing it to a pos, make it a distructable station service much like the medical but alow it to reach out and tie in with other staions in the constilation. also make it vulnerable to a hacking mod loaded with nano virus goo. oh it would be nice to include the logistics class of ships in this idea maybe."
"it's interesting. but i don't see this as a good idea. it makes communications way too complicated and only benefits 0.0 alliances. i say no."
"good idea"
"i understand how you want to implement your idea, but why? why do you want to introduce this - that is in no way clear to me."
"the local issue is a hot topic. it has been debated among players a lot and ccp has also told that it is planning to do something with it. there were several topics about local here on csm, for example simply removing it, or swapping obligatory local to obligatory constellation chat. this idea is the best i have seen so far, so go, go, go, +1 support. it nerfs local which is a good thing but it nerfs it in a way that you can dampen the nerfing effect if you do for it. it gives advantage to those who are fighting in their own territory, let it be 0.0 or in empire, in the territory of their chosen faction. and it favours those who work in teams roaming gangs with recons. the only group who is definitely put into disadvantage by this are the solo ninja npcers... but thats okay to me. some parts of the proposal need refinement, it is not obvious how the standing-based access and the pay-for-service method can coexist. and the balancing needs to be done properly. but the idea itself is great."
"thx, i'll try to answer in short to your concerns:blob warfare issue: if the network hub module is outside the forcefield and 10'ish black ops ships can disable it quickly, then the anchorable hub module isn't so overpowered, right? : ccp will surely balance this, if this my proposal gets trough.defenders receive more love: with the current sov system, you are right, its no too complicated getting sov3, the only necessary condition is time yes, and you have to defend it too. but there are discussions about sov change too, i don't think, my proposal could get into game before a sov finetune. also if there are only 1-2 hub modules in system, its no too complicated to force the defenders to also use recon ships as backup. if there are lots of deadstars with hub modules in hte system, then defenders deserve their local for their fuel imho. this seems balanced to me.recon ships: yep, looks like you missed it, there are a few thoughts here.eccm,ew, black ops, hacking, cloaking: i will answer this in my next post, because of 358 char left only in this one. :"
"outside the pos modules have been the laughingstock of ccp. they promised us with the change of modules outside that small gang pos warfare would be possible. i have no faith that ccp can continue with any outside pos module without completely revamping the whole sov mechanic. and with the shredder pos around everywhere to protect cyno jammers, they would be included in those or made specifically for neural nets. black ops are currently in a pre-nerfed state. they can't cyno into a system with a jammer so its a null point to use them specifically against a pos. and to basically ask people to use tech two ships against laggy mechanics that fire through them with massive range and the precision of gunners i can not think that any pos module would be anywhere near a good thing. in fact if it was a pos module i would think it another kick in the shin to the sov warfare and game in general.i really think your system is too unbalanced. you propose to give defenders who often have lvl 3 the ability to have what is in effect better than current local in terms of it lets you know who exactly left which is useful in populated systems. and you give a ships that are covert operations scouts with basically no combat and reconnaissance ships the ability to give paltry information and do it in a vulnerable state with fuel consumption. they can't carry probes plus fuel and be delayed using the magic module to know how many people are in system to know if they should even drop probes. what you are in effect doing is slowing down the time it takes a recon to assemble any useful information from when they jump in by a severe amount. - jump in, get past any camps.- decloak, activate magic module- move around to not get scanned- wait for results of numbers in system- move some more- decide whether numbers in system qualify for dropping probes- move more, drop probes- relay information to friendliesany level 3 system will have their ratters and vulnerable assets loooong gone.any system with a neural net on a pos surely will have a system scanner as they are cheap and super powerful. you are hovering on the edge of time it takes an enemy to scan and warp in on a target before he can get results. and to be honest knowing the local count isn't much intel for that risk.it's tough to propose a system so tied to sov when we clamor for change.ccp proposed in a sov change they thought of making a deployable offensive cyno jammer. there could be something like that for neural nets i suppose.i await what you have planned for the hostile forces as you haven't had time to explain that yet as you are still forming up your proposal."
"hacking and ew/eccw: to be honest, i'd skip this in the first version. if the 1.0 version is working without lagging to hell, then these could be cool stuffs. i could have mention this in the opening post, but it seems to me, people are already skipping paragraphs, with this the description would be epic long and the whole idea would be more complex, than i'd like to keep in mind. actually i have some fresh ideas see black ops, but i dont't know, how would these impact the server side, what if it would get extra load because of one ew stuff. if it would cause extra lag imagine, what if 200 people are starting to hack, i would be cursed for a lifetime, thats why i picked \"cheap and safe solutions\", which should not cause significant surplus load to any node.black ops: after reading a couple times, i'm more and more sure, i should have pay more attention on my english classes, i could not figure out the point.about black ops: they also could receive the ability to fit a mobile network hub, like the combat recon ships, but i'm afraid this would make them pwnmachines. or they could fit scramblers, which makes them harder to detect. a scrambler module black ops only module could dampen the effectiveness by -1 or just set level 1 of hostile networks, affecting the black ops ship only.cloaking: cloakers force recon, covert ops should receive some tweaking. i'd say, they sould receive bonus in cloaked state against detection, but i'm against to boost them more, than enable cloaked scanning see the part about recon ships. they sould get only one of these. regular ships should not receive any kind of bonus in cloaked state, than they are cloaked."
"do cloaked ships show up in local count or any way while cloaked?"
"you got some valid points. but as i stated before, this is just a plan. the whole stuff is adjustable, the only important point is the chance of local management. i could not spent enough time with eve-related stuff lately work, summer, girls, so it seems i could not spend enough time with think this over and over, and get a good balance, but i don't think this is a big problem. the main point is already written in the \"short description\", in the opening post. if this passes trough, ccp will finetune it anyways.if you could suggest a better balance, i'd welcome it. if you have more well thought out suggestions, i wont be shy to give credit."
"i think regular ships should show up in cloaked state also, just like uncloaked. force recon ships, covops maybe black ops with ew are a good question. i'd say let them see in local count, but you probably wont like this answer. : there are pro-s and con-s in this situation and i drunk some beer after work, so let me think on the stuffs you mentioned till tomorrow..."
"make a tl dr post, i can't quite understand all that has been written in 3 max length replies"
"i think that recons would become too <U+FFFD>ber if they could evade being counted on local... just imagine, you move into some enemy system, with sov3/4, full of people, you hit the cloak in your rapier / arazu, and noone notices any hostile presence in system while you are ganking people in belts? one thing is sure: whenever a ship enters a system, there should a notification about it, no matter what. but as i pointed out above, i think they should be accounted for all the time if the nerural network level is high enough."
"i think the exact details have some problems, but the overall idea is a very good one. change intel away from being chat-based and towards being intel-based. this makes sense on every level. i assume that when this change is made, local chat will go to being a membership-optional, hidden-names chat channel? also, just to throw out some different numbers, how about this: level 1: 60 second delay, names of friendliesas defined by mutual >0 standings and total numbers only. provided by concord to all highsec pilots above -2.0 sec, or provided by a minimal scanning infrastructure1 scanner active. level 2: 30 second delay, names of all pilots. provided by factions to all highsec and lowsec pilots in faction-controlled space above +2.0 standing, or provided by sov 2 and a reasonable scanning infrastructure3 scanners active. level 3: no delay, all names and what ships everyone is flying. provided by scan probeprobably a new variety, or provided by sov 3 and a large scanning infrastructure6 scanners active. also provided to anyone who has a ship using one of these scan probes as a designated booster in gangor perhaps add a skill for how far the bonus extends. level 4: no delay, all names and ships, and the ability to warp to anyone as if they were in gang. provided exclusively by sov 4 and a massive scanning infrastructure10 scanners active. a cloaked ship is scanned as though the intel source is 1 level lower. level 1 doesn't count them, level 2 doesn't name them, level 3 doesn't tell you what ship they're inand still operates under a delay, and level 4 doesn't let you warp to them. a cloaked ship is still unscannable, and it provides a reasonable defence against enemy intel-gathering, but it's a clearly delineated bonus, and i feel it's of an appropriate size. scanners would be relatively large and expensive pos modules, or otherwise modules on whatever the most appropriate structure is if 0.0 infrastructure is changed dramatically. also, all names provided would be sorted by alliance/corporation a quick glance at show info is automatable imo, and you could see the lists with the usual + to expand-type compression. it'd make searchingespecially in places like jita far easier. also, of course, access to a scanner network could be rented out - i imagine cva would make a pretty penny off that service. i think this has a few advantages over the op's proposal. for one, level 1 and 2 are more clearly distinguished, and there are real advantages to running your own scanning infrastructure instead of relying on the npc one. only players can hit scanning level 3 and 4. for two, cloaking has advantages, including the fact that you can never be scanned out, but anyone with a scan probe can still find out who you are. i also like the \"cloaks degrade intel 1 level\" aspect. for three, it's better defined, outlining exactly what bonuses are attained from standings, modules, and sovereignty."
"it's a shame that we are the only people to think this"
"there's a reason for having a checking account, savings account, and other accounts in rl. it keeps the flow of personal finances much more visible.one account to manage cashflow from money making activitiesone account that is savingsone account that is for planned expendaturesthis makes personal finance 10000000% easier since you can very clearly see your cash flow situation.as a part-time trader, it would be greatly helpful for me to have a separate wallet for managing my trading funds and what i want to set aside as my working funds. i'd like to be able to watch my market growth without having to remind myself of random purchases to take into account.also nice to have some separations for dealing with the fact that i'm generally working with loaned money and building excel spreadsheets to keep track of everything is a pain.would furthermore be nice to be able to manage all my clones' various markets separately. i imagine a lot of people who engage in multiple economic activities in different areas would benefit from more organization to their transactions.an option to switch the primary wallet would be analogous to having a cash card, a check book, a credit card, and cash. let's me keep all credits and debits in the right places."
"excellent idea. now it would be easier too always keep my ideal 300mil buffer \"incase something happens\""
"yes"
"supported"
"die! die! die!"
"move da missions."
"this is a terrible, terrible, idea, and would force people to grind longer before they could start enjoying the game. all this would do would make it easy for the freeloaders in lowsec to separate the working pilot from his hard-earned isk; it would increase the amount of time before players could get enough money to sustain themselves and join a lowsec/0.0 corp.a rewards decrease for highsec level 4 agents may be ripe, but not removing them altogether. i only have 2 accounts, and level 3s don't pull in the income that i need; i don't want to have to start violating the eula just so i can sustain myself in eve. while i think its fine as it is, i'd be willing to support a small nerf so that i can have my fun in peace without worrying about some loser scanning out my mission zone, killing me and salvaging all my kills, while at the same time paying a price for the peace of mind and ability to play how i choose.all play styles, including high sec missioning, should be sustainable and viable. the income ratio shouldn't be quite the same as in 0.0, but it should still be doable."
"hisec exploration is a viable profession. you can scan out and run hisec sites pretty easily and make a decent profit. it'll take you awhile to make enough isk for some of the more high-ticket items recons, hacs, faction ships, etc but it's more than enough to sustain yourself. i don't see what's wrong with that level of profit for hisec missions. it works fine for hisec mining/exploration, i don't see why missionrunners should be the exception here. no one is saying that missions should be nigh useless, but right now it's over the top.joining a lowsec/0.0 corp doesn't require a ridiculous income. for one, if you're in a lowsec/0.0 corp you could rat or mission in their territory and earn all the isk you want. for two, just because you can't afford to easily replace pimped hacs every day doesn't mean that you can't sustain yourself."
"at an average loss rate of 1 ship / 14 hours to getting scanned out and killed not including gatecamps; if i'm going to change systems, i wait until just before downtime in lowsec, it does require either a high initial income or a reasonable sustained income. the only source of anything remotely approaching the ability to replace the loss of my megathorn or my raven every week or so is running l4s in highsec.anything less than 15m/hour pretty much makes this game unplayable, at least for me, since i'd be grinding for weeks to replace a ship lost in a few minutes of fun. that isn't my idea of fun in eve; being forced to do it in a place where someone can come kill me while i'm running missions whenever they want doesn't seem like an improvement to me."
"then why not run missions in lowsec and keep said profit? there are plenty of ways to dodge pirates, so no you wont be continuously killed if you're paying attention.the best way is to get some friends/corpmates together and kill any pirates that venture around the area of space you're in, e.g. fight for valuable space. besides, there is no rule that every time you have to go out you have to be flying a ****ing battleship. if you find that you can't reliably support bs losses, why not try cruisers/battlecruisers and/or fit t1 mods as opposed to t2?"
"i'd love to; do you have a guide on how i can be outfitted for shield tanking and missile dps and still not get continuously killed?yeah, we tried that once; worked until our first victim's friends showed up. turns out that people who reap the heightened rewards of lowsec and can afford faction battleships and heavy interdictors generally beat a ferox, a caracal, an ewar frigate and a raven trying to make their way in. go figure.i don't have the skills to do what i enjoy doing l4s in a cruiser, and i don't have the time or patience or the t2 missile skills required to do them in a battlecruiser. my role in the gang is to do dps. another person absorbs damage. for me at least, my role works best in a battleship, and i very seldom lose my ship to npc rats. i don't have enough isk to regularly fund getting killed by pirates, i certainly don't have the isk to throw away cruisers and battlecruisers experimenting with fits that work well.and i don't fit t2 mods; i can't afford them. i fit named t1s except in the case of cap modules on my ferox.the point is, eve used to be a sandbox game where you can do anything you want, and do it profitably. it's slowly heading in a more focused, \"you have to do this or you're useless\" kind of direction with proposed changes like these, the nano nerf, et cetera.really, though, i don't see what you really have to complain about; you already have l5s exclusive to nullsec and lowsec, and you can make a crap ton more doing those than you can running l4s in highsec. the lp rewards are greater in lowsec, and you get all kinds of extra opportunities like pirate missions, narcotics, and screwing with fw players. if you don't think that lowsec is profitable enough, why not try to buff lowsec rather than ruin the game for those of us who are already just barely getting by in highsec?"
"this thread has a lot of good advice. i haven't lost a ship in lowsec in awhile. while i don't run missions, i run exploration complexes which are easier to find than missions. well i suppose i have lost a ship recently if you count my dumbass forgetting how shooting back at campers stops you from jumping through a gate, but that was bad luck and my own stupidity. okay? you wont win every battle, especially if your opponent is more organized than you. them flying hictors/battleships has nothing to do with them living in lowsec. sigh.1 t2 is cheaper than good named t12 you don't use the same damn ship for pvp that you do for npcing. you shouldn't be losing a missionship often if at all.\"barely getting by\" running hisec level 4s? lol... there are people who \"get by\" making less than half the profit you do mining. somehow they manage. i repeat, you don't need to be constantly replacing battleships to be effective. if you buffed lowsec/0.0 a ****load then, while risk/reward would be restored, inflation would be ****ing ridiculous and the expensive stuff that's supposed to be rare and special suddenly wouldn't be so anymore."
"sit in motsu running missions pretty much risk free is ******ed."
"high-sec l4 messes up what could have been an interesting market dynamic."
"please move lvl 4s to 0.0 and let goonswarm farm themalso pls move officer spawns and mercoxite, crokite and arkonor to hi-sec...sounds fair"
"desperately need /dance, also, if we could implement night elves..."
"just so you know, it was raised at the last csm meeting was approved for escalation"
"this proposal includes a coordinated set of ideas that encompass changes to 0.0, sov warfare, and the roles of super-caps, caps, and sub-caps. the idea is that all of these concerns are so tightly related that its easier to try and solve all the problems together than to come up with piecemeal solutions. so this is not pick-and-choose. its all-or-none. here are the problems the solution tries to solve:in sov warfare, there is only one case where you would prefer to have a pilot in a sub-cap rather than in a capship, and that is a cynojammer takedown. seems like people would prefer that subcaps have more purpose in sov warfare that cant be better filled by caps.according to ccp, sov warfare needs a place for small gangs to contribute read: a step in sov warfare that cant be totally blobbed and can be done in subcaps.the cost/benefit analysis for living in 0.0 is not favorable.some people want roaming gangs to be able to do some level of infrastructural damage in conquerable space. but, allowing that makes problem #3 even worse.one ship killing 200 other ships by pushing one button is not very fun.and here are some good things about living in 0.0 that the proposal tries not to mess up:there are massive fleet battles featuring huge expensive capital and super-capital ships.it takes #1 to effectively wage sov warfare.those who have the best organization of the most dedicated players have the best chance of succeeding in 0.0.onto the changes.new sov warfare system  planetary basesintroduce a new sov-holding structure, the planetary base pb, which is anchored at a planet. moon-anchored pos no longer contribute to sov. each pb is associated with a set of five planetary defense stations pds with are located on different grids one au or so from the pb. pbs get the set of anchorable offensive and defensive modules that pos currently get in the live game, however cynojammers, jump bridges, cyno beacons and other non-combat modules can only be anchored at pos.the process of destroying a pb is exactly like destroying a pos, except that after the pb comes out of reinforced, it continues to be invulnerable until repped or until three out of its five pds are incapped. once the planetary base is vulnerable, it remains so as long as three out of five pds are incapped. the pds are designed to be subcap objectives; think of them like station services with far, far fewer hp. 20 bs should be able to take one out in twenty minutes or so. however, the pds are self-repairing. around 10 minutes after being incapped the length of time is a balance point, the pds come back online with full hp. consequently, teams of subcaps from an attacking fleet need to constantly work to keep the majority of the pds down while the main fleet attacks the pb. the hp of the pb should be such that you can finish one off in two fully-utilized windows of opportunity with a fleet that includes 35 or so dreads. the hp is a tweakable balancing point.pds can only be targeted during the window of time after a pb exits reinforced and before the pb is repped. optional idea: while the planetary base is vulnerable, the guns at the planetary base dont fire. you could dream up other bonuses gained from disabling more than 3/5 pds.i have put a little faq at the end that explains how this addresses problems #1 and #2 above.pos changes  small gang harassment targetswith pos no longer being sov-holding structures, they can be made more vulnerable to attacks by roaming gangs that want to attack infrastructure."
"move all pos facilities moon-mining, research, production, storage, etc outside of the pos shields. the modules can be incapped by roamers to temporarily disable their function, but to destroy them an attacker must first destroy the pos control tower. when a pos module that contains a resource e.g. harvested moon mins or reaction products is incapped, some percentage of its contents are ejected into space for the harassers to keep. the process for destroying a pos should remain the same, but reduce the offensive modules anchorable at a pos so as to make the pos modules reasonably vulnerable to harassment read: a limited number of small guns, along with the normal neuts, scrams, ecm, etc.pos keep their current level of shields, so theyre still reasonable to use as staging structures during an invasion of a hostile system. but see the titan change further down as well. the hp of the modules that will now be outside of the pos shields is a balance point.pos changes  reducing the upkeep cost/increasing profitability.assumedly some people will actually go around incapping moon-mining modules and so forth, which is going to hurt the profitability of living in 0.0 which is already not so hot. to over-compensate, reduce the cost of maintaining the network of pos and increase their rates of production. decrease the up-front cost of a pos. reduce control tower and module base costs, and increase the drop-rates for faction tower and pos module bpcs. reduce the rate of pos fuel and trade goods consumption. increase silo and fuel-bay size to reduce the amount of tedious upkeep effort. this is on top of the fact that under the new sov warfare system described above, you can probably get by with fewer pos to begin with. increase reaction rates and min harvesting rates to over-compensate for the potential loss of resources to raiders. because this will affect the global supply of reaction products, it will probably be necessary to adjust the amounts of reaction products needed for t2 production. in a player-based economy like eve, if you're not increasing profitability by opening up a new market adding a new game mechanic, then you're achieving it by wealth transfer. the t2 market is the vehicle for transferring wealth from elsewhere into 0.0.how does this help the average joe? maybe if your alliance has a lower upkeep cost for maintaining the empire, it will reduce your taxes some. i mean probably theyll just use the extra isk to buy some jerk a mothership who will then never log in again, but the proposal cant be blamed for that. titan changes  make them deathstar-like xdin order to keep titans from dominating the defense of the pds, we need to get rid of the aoe doomsday. the new titan gets two modes of operation: one offensive, and one defensive.in offensive mode, the titan is mobile and can use its doomsday device. however, replace the aoe effect with a very powerful single-target damage effect sufficient to alpha any one capital ship. the exact damage is a tweakable balance point.in defensive mode, the titan is completely immobile but projects its shields outward as a pos-caliber force-field and can use its jump bridge. and when i say completely immobile, i mean un-bumpable but also unable to engage jump drives. when in defensive mode, the titans shield capacity is multiplied up to about the level of a large pos. the exact hp is a tweakable balance point. a titan can act as a staging point for an invasion in a pinch, although obviously you cant it into a cynojammed system and it wont go into reinforced when it gets into armor it just dies really quickly.the titan can switch modes on a longish cooldown balance point.creditsthis proposal is the result of fahtim meidires's thread; several people contributed to it and i wasn't the main one."
"mini-faq/obvious objectionsobjection: this does nothing about the \"capitals online\" problem. people will just use capitals for taking down the moon-based planetary defense stations in addition to using them to take down the planetary base.the pds only stay down for around 10 minutes. think about how long it takes you to warp slow-aligning caps around in a laggy fleet fight. if you try to blob your caps around, you will never get your caps back into position at the planetary base to do damage to it during its window of vulnerability after taking down the pdss. your dreads need to be sitting there ready to go into siege when they get their window of opportunity. if you foolishly split your caps up among the pds, your several small groups of caps might get individually blobbed and destroyed by the defender.objection: people are just going to blob all the planetary defense modules. noone will spread out.if you take that approach you're going to waste a lot of your dreads's siege cycles and make the process take longer overall.you need to knock out 3 out of 5 pdss to make the planetary base vulnerable. when incapacitated, the pds stays down for about 10 minutes -- about one siege cycle. if you split your forces and coordinate so that they all go down at about the same time, you can get about one full siege cycle of damage in. if your blob takes them down one at a time and it takes 4 minutes for each one, then by the time you've taken down #3, #1 is going to come online in two minutes or so. enjoy your two minutes of siege damage before the base goes invulnerable again.objection: well the defender will just blob up and kill the smaller gangs that are attacking the planetary defense modules.you can keep dodging their blob and hitting the pdss where there blob isn't. in high lag it will take them quite a while to warp their blob from pds to pds, load grid, and start killing your pds-killers who are already on grid and killing a pds. meanwhile all your other subcap groups are at other pdss bringing them down.alternatively, bubble them when they warp in, blob up yourself, and enjoy your huge badass fleet fight. at least if they choose to blob your pds-killers, you'll be fighting them at a pds instead of a deathstar or lagstar pos. the point of the idea isn't to completely eliminate blob warfare in all cases. it wouldn't really help with lag much anyway because as soon as you get 400 guys in a single system it goes to **** regardless of what grid you're on.but, if you're talking about a fleet blob situation, don't pretend that a blob of ships can flit all around a lagged-out system on a whim smashing groups of subcaps. maybe one group every 20 minutes if the node doesn't crash. meanwhile the planetary base is vulnerable to sieged dreads and is getting its ass kicked."
"this trivializes sov warfare and lets any small gang chip away the sov of a thousands-strong empire.no it doesn't. this new sov warfare system is more immune to small gang harassment than the current system is.under the current system, if you find a small pos with no guns, you could theoretically park a cap-stable geddon there all night and fire at with t1 ammo and blow it up if no one came to stop you. under this new system, you must have a fleet to take down the sov-holding structures. the planetary bases, which are the sov-holding structures, are invulnerable to attack unless the majority of their satellite defensive modules have been incapacitated. those satellite modules are self-repairing on a pretty short timer. any small gang that tries to take down a planetary base is going to be stuck playing whack-a-mole with the defensive modules and never be able to hurt the planetary base.what the new system allows is a role for small gangs of sub-capitals to split off from the main fleet and pursue sub-capital sov objectives in support of the activity of the main fleet. without the rest of the fleet in system, the small gang is useless. without the small gangs, the main fleet the cap fleet is useless. everyone is working together in the same system at the same time."
"a great consensus plan, i know the csm has seen a few 0.0 related topics come their way, but this one was really hashed out from the ground up in fahtim's thread."
"the only part of this i disagree with is the proposed ddd changes. ideas like the ones in yaay's thread accomplish the same objectives better while being more interesting and useful. aside from that, however, i like this proposal. i'm still amazed by its genesis, but the results look like a plan that has a good chance of not ****ing off anybody too much, which is saying quite a lot."
"yeh, i liked some of xttz's ideas from that thread. really any change to the titan that prevents a defender using aoe dd to one-click-kill the subcap teams at the pds would work. i kind of like the \"mobile base\" idea for the titan in our proposal because currently it's a real pita breaking into a fully-towered system no free moon for a staging pos. but it's not like a critical element of the proposal. the critical element is that the subcap-killing aoe dd goes away but it remains useful to bring a titan onto the battlefield."
"oh, i liked the idea about \"defensive mode\". should be a module rather than a big switch, but the principle of a mobile humongous shield is a good one. the current titan setup of cloak/ddd/istabs is bad, but there's a lot of proposed ddd changes out there that would make it just fine. ultimately, i want them to have a role in combat that lasts longer than 20 seconds, that allows the titan a goodthough not perfect chance of survival, and that doesn't wreck fleets singlehandedly. i don't much care what that role is."
"so far the thread's already a model of how to get a good proposal going. take the topic to the speaker's corner, deliberate the points, and gather concerns from multiple parties. after everyone's hopefully smarter about all the interests and consequences involved with the change, several drafts are produced, discussed, and finally somebody takes it to assembly.this proposal is a result of the hard work of more than several people who don't always fully agree on the subjects at hand. at times there have been some funkier twists considered, but only the ones that made it through deliberation have made it here. there still might be work going on.extended credits:sovereignty decentralization ~ nande edit support"
"this issue was approved off. i have resubmitted a bug report, id is 61449."
"two things strike me:1 - goons almost universally don't want their private isk-farms disrupted and don't want anyone else hisec to get any slice of the pie, no matter how small.and2 - bob supports finite moon resources but wants it easier to move an entire pos. when you think of the size of a pos and all associated structures, i just can't see how a few hours work is that big a deal ... except when that means a few hundred million isk to you.final thoughts:1. i sure hope the csm can discuss and perhaps propose a logical course of action or two.2 - yes, i am posting with an alt."
"more game, less same same."
"i sold my t2 bpos some time ago so ..... yes, delete t2 bpos, make people suffer"
"yeah. we need to know the future of this."
"some new information would be great. especially considering that next major patch is supposed to be 'industry' oriented."
"supported"
"i don't want an answer because i know the answer. it was stated when they introduced invention. no new bpos. the bpos that are in game will remain.to ask for an answer again is asking for them to either revisit that decision, or repeat themselves. i don't think either is necessary. let the whiners whine."
"**** offskunk"
"no"
"ehgawd.what you are claiming is basically that:\"since this is how it used to be back in the day, this is how it should be now\"i am pretty sure this is some sort of chronological/historical/whatever fallacy, and since you are making one, i will too.\"since human sacrfice used to be practiced in the past, we should start practicing human sacrificing\"i might also add:\"lets start by sacrificing sariyahingame\""
"agreed."
"no, guns are already too strong"
"yes, take a look at sentry guns please. if pirates had to scan people out instead of ****ing each other off all day at a gate camp, you might actually get more people into low sec."
"hi,i submitted a petition for this and was advised to raise it on the council to get support for a change in the game mechanics. please add your support....in my opinion the wrong price is being used where a buy order is placed at a higher price than items already being sold on the market. in this case it uses the higher buy price rather than the asking price for the goods.this is critical and has happened to me twice now whereby when entering a buy order, you catch an extra key just as you press enter and instead of bidding 5 million isk you end up bidding 50 million. even though items are being sold at 10 million and only 10 million is required to buy the item it gives the seller the whole 50 million! whilst this is a very nice surprise for the seller it is pretty ridiculous and would never happen in real life. ps the \"are you sure you want to buy for this price\" dialogue box didn't appear in the instance above due to the lower intended bid price vs the higher market average.it took me quite a while to gather the 50 million and i'm pretty annoyed at having given it away when i didn't intend/need to.can we get this changed so that it only pays the seller the asking price please?also the \"are you sure\" dialogue box appears with annoying regularity when you don't want it but fails to appear when you do and i guess that the reason for this is it always compares the price to regional average? i think it would be a much more useful tool if it were to compare your new buy order to other buy orders already on the market and your new sell order to other sell orders on the market."
"agree with changing how it works, yes. i don't like punishing people too harshly for typosespecially given that i make so many."
"makes sense"
"having wasted 200 mil doing something similar quite sometime ago, i agree.however, bear in mind that some players don't look at sell orders when they put buys up! but, you are right...if your buy order is higher per unit than the current sell order, you should get a warning box.the box should always appear, but have an option to never show again...then typos can be directly attributed to stupidity ;take care,arithron"
"you mean like the warning box that pops up when ever you buy something for a price far greater than the regional average, like how the op bought something for 10x the likely regional average. i expect that the reason that this works this way is that the buy order price can be used for all the purchases it generates without checking the prices of the seller orders that it fills individually to calculate the amount of isk to transfer. it only needs to check for sell orders at a lower price and then fill the sell orders starting with the lowest priced offer. thus allowing the market to place a minimal load on the server."
"a carrier undocks from a station, deploys a damn armada of drones/fighters, ganks freely while the attackers futilely try to get to him through the docking ring, recalls his armada & docks while laughing.yes, station hugging is bugged all to hell.the invulnerability timer needs to be based on the grid load. the higher the grid load the longer a ship is untouchable and thus remains within docking range. once the ship takes any action other than 'dock' it's fair game for 60 seconds... unless it initiates aggression and then it's stuck for, let's say:0.25 seconds multiplied by the signature radius of the ship? thus a frigate can dock pretty quickly, while a bs has nearly 100 seconds to sit there and tank... and then there's the sig radius of a capital ship, change their multiple to 0.5 seconds*sig.this is, ofc, after the target ship initiates aggression. if they don't aggro they can sit there and dock at their liesure regardless of their size even if you bump them 200km, they still have the 'dock' option."
"support"
"this is really a great idea! it returns the mwd back to it's intended original use: getting in and out of combat quickly!"
"i looked through the minutes of the last meeting and didnt see any disscussion on non-pvp related areas unless they were general areas like the ui, nothing about mining or tradegood trading? or other high sec concerns?are there any carebears on the council? or did the pvpers take over the council too?"
"a lot of those concerns were addressed in the csm's first trip to iceland."
"are there minutes to that meeting?"
"yes, there has been plenty.yesterday we discussed some issues in regards to missions. at iceland we discussed assembly arrays, stock markets, shares, market and things like that."
"yes, see the csm section in eve insider.and i suppose i'm the big evil carebear on the council, or so they say. i brought up mission improvements yesterday, and lavista vista is working on a complex plan to improve industry.if you have any ideas you would like to see addressed, please, speak up."
"rumour has it that you... compromised on your \"i would never shoot anyone even in self defence\" stance"
"everything in eve is pvp related, one way or another."
"actually, from what i heard, she just tackled. still, quite an improvement, all told."
"even worse! she forced someone to pvp against their will!oh ankh, you are a now........"
"simple: all offlined pos's will unanchor themselves if not onlined after 3 days. 1 full day of onlining resets the timer. reason: towers need to be tended to, they shouldnt be allowed to sit there and force someone to blow them up just because someone was too lazy to remove them. or used as place holders for moons.i like 3 days, but 5 days is fine with me toowhatcha think?"
"just tie it in with all the other space trash, and make it a 30 day timer.otherwise im all for such an idea"
"disagree.a pos is a player or corporation's stuff. even if that person anchors a pos, quits eve then lets it sit there, you still have to fight that person to claim what they have laid stake to."
"i have a problem with needing to fight someone who quit.but, i agree somewhat with siigari.so i propose simply that if the pos if offline, you receive no messages that it's being attacked, or destroyed, as the communications array would logically be offline as well. in that manner, it still acts as a buffer to a zone of space, but if the space is neglected, it can be taken without notice."
"while i do not support automatic unanchoring, i would rather see like a new speciality skill - eg unanchoring, like hacking, that an offlined tower after a certain amount of time, eg 30 days, will be accessible for pilots with the \"unanchroing\" skill.you can try and unanchor it like you would try and open hacking sites, either either a successfull unachor or fail - thus try again. if success you can simply scoop the tower. we'd then see professional tower hunters as a playstyle as well."
"while i am not supportin unanchoring, especially within the short time frame in the op, i am supporting the automated clean-up of poses.they should however not just disappear or get unanchored but instead get taken over by the local pirate faction or drones and need to be destroyed and cleaned out first before a new pos can be placed in."
"30 days, poof"
"i think 30 days is too long, needs to be relevent to the whole concept of corps/alliances managing controllable ammounts of space. and in wartime. why should someones unguarded asset sit there with no repercussions? the only mechanic is the anchoring? this change would make people think about their assets, remove the ability to put place holders down on moons, and govern their space in a more effective fashion.there should be no reason why, if someone else wanted the moon, that the current tenenat can provide excess boredom to other players by simply leaving it therei do support a hacking skill as well, very nice mechanic ideai think 5 days is fine after the tower goes offline. these types changes support better sov mechanics all around in 0.0 and are small steps to limit boredom while promiting sov holders to tend to their space better and not cause undew aggravation for others."
"just limit missions. 1+10-true sec * 10/day. 0.5 system = 1+10-5= 6 missions. 6 missions * 40min each = 4 hours. farmers are dead. normal players not effected."
"i think it would be a good idea for squad/wing/fleet commanders to have different colored texts than the rest of the fleet. this would prevent confusion, and would eliminate orders being delivered like this, all caps sucks, it makes my eyes hurt and it looks ******ed.edit: apparently mentally challenged personed is a profane word......."
"give the fcor channel mod generally the option of designating somebody as typing in a given colour - something like /color blue herschel yamamoto, for example. there might be some optimization needed - say, give you the option of automatically setting your own color when you're channel mod - but this would be a good plan."
"agree, fc should be in pink."
"gold wing, red wing, green wing, all very interesting concepts, however that would mean for claritys sake that some of the color functions we have now need to have new icons to avoid confusion."
"i agree"
"our even a brighter/ bolder white for fc/wc/sc and as an assignable role.i will miss my caps though..."
"genius."
"i will support the idea, but i think this is impossible"
"nothing is imposeble. this can be made actualy. the system will be static only entrance in it gate will not. it will respawn just like acceleration gatesi like idea and i always wanted to see that future in eve what defenetly do something with exploration.note: just think about drone regions before and jove space. it is there but we cant enter yet hope someday we can. there is also gm's system cant remeber the name atm its also listed on map but you cant get in because there is no static gates for entrance."
"yesthis is cooli like it"
"or a wormhole back to old earth, where we can attack and conquer the corrupt and decadent society which abandoned us!"
"badly needed addition, i'm all for it."
"supported"
"whenever i go to the insurance button, i get hit by such mails for corp insured ships. personally i feel that this is an issue that needs fixing somehow. maybe a check every time a ship is made an active ship be it logon or activating in a station/boarding the ship. at that point a check is made and if need be the advise mail sent rather then waiting till it is destroyed or the insurance button clicked. as for corp insured - mail the person who is activating the ship, but also provide a tab in the corp panel that the apropriate people can see the status of all corp insurance contracts on, both existing and recently expired."
"thanks guys. there has to be more people who have experienced this other than the rantings of my corpmates."
"the current system is quite simply broken/fundementaly flawed.shippers have effectivly no faith in the system as it currently stands so it is not effectivly used by the general player base only by major corperations for internal deliveries or by gankers atempting to lure prey to low sec for easy hauler kills. the few people that do try to use it tack on huge bond requirements 99% of these are bond pirates that wait for a hauler to attempt delivery and then gank the defenceless hauler not only gaining a easy kill,, the loot,, but also the exhorbatant bounty yet another reason this system is broken!what you need to do is take the shiped items out of the equaision:a shipper purchases either boxes based on size,distance,security, and handling instructionsrush or time critical ect or a bulk shipping contract calculated on a per 3m basisthe hauler picks up packages only limited by his cargo bay size, he has no access to the boxes content but will be payed a fee upon delivery to the destonation.if for some reason the hauler fails to deliver the goods,, logged out, cancel subscription, blown up in deep space,, after a certain time the boxes would return to the origin for another hauler to transport. it is also possible for the hauler to be blown up or robbed and the thief to deliver the boxes for the shipping fee.as for the bulk shipments all the haulers get is a token of the goods to be hauled not the actual material but the method uses a single 3m parcel amount allowing any number of players to participate in transporting the bulk cargo from frigates with 5 cargo to haulers with 20k-30k cargo.as for the hauler he would goto a database and search for shipments based on things like destonization, distancejumps or security risk for instance a hauler could look for shipments less than 300 3m,, 5 jumps or less,, and only high sec and from this list he can select the parcels he will attempt to haul,,,, at the destonation he simply goes in and completes the hauling contract and gets paid the standard shipping fee. as far as the shipper is concerned its irrelevant if its .30isk of trit or a multi million isk blueprint.this could be a very entertaining content for haulers and traders if it were fixed but in its current form the game is far too limited to implement the real security required for a realistic transport for goods unless you gonna have a way to directly penalize thiefs blow up the pirate ship, or ban the player for a week if cought, my method is infinatly more practicle and functional. you could easily place restrictions to thic kind of service that it is more vulnerable in certain areas or unavailable on others.i for one would much prefer to haul goods for other players than just npc goods but im not gonna pay 50 million isk bond to haul 10,000 trit around."
"you know the beautiful thing about public contracts? you don't have to accept them. if you think the collateral is too high, or the pay is too low, don't take it. just because people are idiots sometimes does not mean that the system is broken."
"make courier packages unscannable and it might get used more. what business is it of yours what i want moved? break the seal and find out or stay clueless."
"what business is it of yours if i give it a quick x-ray en route? set the collateral high enough, or stay itemless."
"it should be my prerogative to place sensors in the package that voids the contract upon scanning and up to the courier ship to protect his ship against said scanning to avoid losing the collateral. right now the courier system is quite useless."
"given that ship scanning doesn't even cause an aggression timer, i really fail to see why it should be able to invalidate billions worth of collateral. if you're worried about contracts set up as collateral scams, changing collateral collection from requiring enough firepower to kill the ship to requiring an interceptor with a ship scanner seems like a really bad way to prevent scams. they don't even have to entice you into lowsec or suicide gank you, they just have to sit outside station and target you, and then they collect their collateral. i'm all in favour of risk and reward, action and consequence, but this is just ridiculous."
"how do you figure?set a collateral amount that covers your loses: isn't that the point of having collateral?or do you simply want to use it as a counter measure to cargo scanning?a little over powered don't you think: pay 10,000 isk and nobody can scan your cargo?"
"this idea is completely impractical.this would void the risk of shipping anything through low/null sec space.want to ship something along a dangerous route, simply create a courier contract to yourself, then keep retrying it in an expendable t1 ship until you succeed.there is no risk, because if you fail, the item respawns back where you started."
"this is completly untrue. the system works perfectly and is being actively used by many players. just ask professional hauler corps how many courier jobs they do every day. i personally make tens of courier contracts every month, all of them are delivered in few hours without any problems.there is only change courier contracts really need - remove 120k m3 limit.as for the lowsec, why do you accept lowsec/0.0 couriers if you can't make them? you can review the route before you accept courier contract, so where is the problem?"
"it'd have to be way over the value of the cargo or else it'd not make up for the inconvenience of not having it arrive at the destination, time being money. at those levels all of a sudden not many people want to do the hauling.if i didn't have to take out the value of the cargo in collateral but rather could mask the value of the load and generate more work for the would be couriers i'd think that'd be good for the trade, for all parties, me, the courier and the possible pirate with more targets floating around.of course i'd send decoy packages ever so often to discourage theft of the motherload.i never said that the price for creating the actual courier mission or in fact the ability to do so should remain the same. just that i think unscanable cans for courier missions would improve the trade."
"so what should be the \"price\" for making your cargo completely unscannable?"
"a percentage of the value of the cargo, with this only the contractor actually knows the real value of the haul as the cost of setting one up is in no way related to the payout or collateral but there to prevent massive abuse of the mechanics."
"how do you calculate the \"value\" of the cargo aside of the value assigned by the collateral required by the shipper?"
"just like anything being put up on contracts with the baseprice i guess but i'd be in favor or at least a 1-10m flat fee minimum for obscuring the cargo. if you don't want to pay that much you can always run the goods in the open like they are now."
"you realise that for any goods worth hiding, the base price has no reflection at all on the actual value?for example, the base price for a complete set all 6 slots of high-grade pirate implants is 4.8 million isk. that right, million with an \"m\" not a \"b\".while t2 goods are not quite so bad, they are still often an order of magnatude higher than the base price.the only thing the base price is any good for is estimating the value of minerals and t1 crap."
"i've seen proposals in the past for camouflage cans - cans that can be displayed to look like they contain a different manifest than they actually do. they'd be expensive and reduce your cargo, but they would exist. would these satisfy your desires?"
"so paying 4.8m to courier an implant set isn't better than paying 10k isk doing the same? if you suspect the load to be worth it take the gamble. why would i want to take a similar gamble hauling the set out in the open again?"
"yes, but right now people can see that you are carrying an implant set.paying 4.8m to put your implant set into a box so that nobody can scan them is a bargin: aside from the fact that if you bothered to put it in a box then you must have a reason for it.the problem is finding balancing point where it is worthwhile to hide a variety of items without making it standard practice to hide everything. cargo scanners already have limited enough application, they aren't a target for the nerf bat."
"because if you're competent, it's not a gamble. so, let's say you're a pirate. you go to forge lowsec, buy up a snake set for 1.5 billion, and have it couriered to you with a collateral of 2 billion. somebody shoots the ballsy man in the covops. you shrug, buy another set, set another contract, and pocket the half-billion. the only gamble is in whether you get free bonus profit or not. if it's worth couriering, it's worth getting free money for and couriering again."
"i currently have an issue with my corporation about office rent, mails and lost assets.now the issue here is it seems my whole corporation is bugged, as i have lost assets 2 times now. i as the ceo don't get mails about paying rent for the office but my friend who is a director did he told me later. 2 incidents so far:1. ok last month, i the ceo didn't get any mail at all, whatsoever and the friend of mine didn't pay the rent as he was expecting me too ofcourse. so we both logged on, delivered our researched bpos, and what? we have no office!we got our stuff impounded so i re-rented the office but our delivered bpos are gone. i petition and 5-6 days later the bpos are returned to my personal hangar, peace, but why didn't i as the ceo get a mail about office rent? no reply at all on my petition on that it simply got closed.2. ok yesterday. this time my frienddirector didn't get a mail, he delivered he's bpos and what? the office is impounded, he pays the fee, gets all the bpos, re-rents puts everything where it is suppose to be. i logged on now with the re-rented office whenever he or i deliver a bpo from research/copying, it disappears even thou we have an office...might i add this time i did infact get a mail, so when i woke up and read the mail i got it 6 hours ago, and i hear what's going on. wtf?so now i am stuck with filing another petition too ccp and i have to wait nearly a week to get anything done, and as for all of my crucial bpos i will get delivered, they won't do **** as i have to petition those aswell.now this is a serious issue and really is it my corp that can have some sort of bug and do i need to remake it? or what's going on? can this be resolved?also that ccp refuses to respond to me and simply closes my petitions are screwed up since i did add: i don't get mails at all/in time to pay the rent if that would happen, i wouldn't have any problems, wouldn't need to file petitions or make stupid threads like this.not sure if this is the right forum part but yeah."
"office rent should automatically come from the corporation's master wallet with a mail to notify that it was due, was paid automatically, and how much.if the office has not been accessed in 90 days the rent suspends, the assets go to impound, and all jobs qued from that office are halted.obviously if no one has accessed the office in 90 days any pos in that system are already offline/gone why bring fuel from another system if your office is in this one? ofc, jobs running in a local pos could've been initiated at the pos, or from the local office satisfying access reqs.there should be a limit to 1 office per system rather than per station."
"there is always isk in the master wallet, more then enough to pay for this office for several years aheadwell the corporate hangar is used like every single day and we're both active...yeah we did this... but the issue is the office disappears for some reason, we re-rent and when we delived our jobs from the former office in the same station we don't get it for some reason...yeah perhaps but we're only using 1 office in that system...according to what you just written up here something seems to be seriously wrong with my corporation or something : /"
"please contact a senior gm. i have had this happen to me before, which the gm fixed for me."
"thanks... how do i actually contact a senior gm? not to be an ass, but through petitions i won't get any replies anyways except returned items and a closed petition where i just have to wait for the next month for this too happen again... so if there's a way to contact a gm and have a ingame chat or even a mail contact that would be awesome"
"well, there is a petition type called senior gm, i believe. but you should file a bug report with all the relevant information and include the bug report id into the petition. that will help ccp work out what is wrong."
"when i was running a research corp, we had lost bpos almost once a week. they were never the cheap ones either. the only things that were lost were a chimera bpo, drake bpo, and ferox bpo. in fact the chimera was missing several times. there is a bug with remote placing of research jobs that seems to only be fixed when a gm flushes your research buffer and dumps it back into your hangar."
"why would a carebear ever want to expose themselves to elite template pvpers drooling to blow up someones unarmed hauler or miner in low sec space??? or even a novice or casual player wanting to try a bit of pvp low sec by definition forces carebears into high sec..some possible fixes,,, 1make a non-pvp faction that has access to many areas via trade routes similar to branches on a tree. this would allow deeper access for players and goods and supplies make it possible for escourts to activly defend other ships,, currently even a titan cant defend a hauler from attack because the attacker can directly attack the hauler and kill it in 1-2 shots and jump away even with 10 ships defending its still futile????? there should be some way for these escourts to protect the hauler either by activly shielding the hauler or by making the hauler invulnerable/ difficult to kill while being escourted.have a durability bonus added to to novice players so they dont get blown up so fast by ships 200+ km away they dont live long enough to have any fun.have security zones that you cannot completely destroy ships only severly damage them or that to destroy them takes a large amount of \"kill damage\" and includes a faction penalty this would allow novice players to \"get their feet wet\" without the unacceptable risk of total annialization before they even know if they want to pvp at higher risk.ccps \"all or nothing\" pvp causes a sharp rift between high sec players and low sec pvpers with no middle ground."
"so what you're saying is that pvp is too hard, and you want ccp to nerf it. have you ever actually tried, or do you just caricature everybody not in highsec as ravenous and untouchable? you don't have the slightest clue of how pvp works, and yet you're running in blind terror from it. seriously, you need to accept that eve does not coat you in bubble wrap, and go out and learn to play properly. either that or go back to a game that doesn't punish you for your mistakes. say, pong."
"wow you reall dont have a grasp on the problem do you?the risk in low sec is too high it doesnt matter if you move everything to low sec except veld mining!untill you lower the risk its empire or cancel accounts!as a miner/hauler i simply cant afford to get a ship blown up every day just because some pvper wants an easy kill! i play for the relaxation and having to watch my ass every second is not how i wish to spend my time or money.there will be a mass exidus as soon as there is a game similar to eve that is player friendly.eve currently has a bad reputation as a pvp nitch game, thats why its still not popular by mmo standards."
"the first law of economics is \"incentives matter\". right now, the incentives are to stay out of lowsec if possible - the risk is high, and the reward sucks. the only people who reside there are pirates, and occasionally others visit, whether for reasons of doing some business, or because they screwed up their autopilot settings. if you change those incentives then you will also change the results. if, say, lowsec ore were dramatically buffed, then a lot of risk-tolerant miners would stop laughing at lowsec and go out there. factional warfare is a great example of this - you have over 20,000 people who have decided to at least visit lowsec once in a while, because they like territory control and leaderboards, while not wanting to live the hard 0.0 life. you make the fundamental error of assuming that because you are completely intolerant of risk that everyone else is too. you are clearly not the marginal case here. the point is not to change the reward structure to the point where everybody uses lowsec, it's to change it so that more people use it. for that to happen, they don't need to get you out there, they just need to get some people out there - like, say, me. i'm wealthy, not particularly risk-averse, and willing to try new things, but at the same time i'm not so risk loving that i'm willing to impoverish myself for a lot of scanning and a bit of adrenalinelike some of my pirate friends are. right now, the only thing i use lowsec for is the odd bit of piracy when bored, and a place to research bpos with less waiting, now that i can use a covops cloak. if missions were twice as good there as in highsec, though, i'd get together a gang of friends to go run them on a regular basis. i'd do the same after an ore improvement if i was a miner. even if you never touch lowsec with a 10-jump pole, it'd still move up in population if it got better. as for your commentary on eve in general, i really have to disagree. a game that is \"like eve but player friendly\", in the way you mean, is not like eve at all. it's just got a bad codebase and a complex crafting system. the whole point of eve is scamming your fellow man, shattering player empires, and otherwise playing a game that features actual risk. and also, i have one question for you - if this is such a bad game, aimed at a niche you seem to find reprehensible, why do you play? that isn't \"gb2wow\", i'm curious. clearly it does something right, or else you wouldn't be here, but you don't seem to acknowledge that said \"something\" exists."
"so what you're saying is that pvp is too hard, and you want ccp to nerf it. have you ever actually tried, or do you just caricature everybody not in highsec as ravenous and untouchable? you don't have the slightest clue of how pvp works, and yet you're running in blind terror from it. seriously, you need to accept that eve does not coat you in bubble wrap, and go out and learn to play properly. either that or go back to a game that doesn't punish you for your mistakes. say, pong.im saying the current pvp directly cripples eve as few people like that kind of extreem. just go read other games like star trek online its packed with postings about how eves pvp is crippling the games growth and appeal the pvpers are directly forcing non-pvpers either into empire or out of the game.and if this trend continues eve will be another ghost town of nothing but pvpers especially once other eve like games that are player friendly hit the market in the next year or two.i think ccp should really take off the blinders and quit catering to the pvpers that have forced most of the non-pvpers to leave thus giving ccp a false impresson of the possible player base not everyone that wants to play eve enjoys getting ganked or even wants to participate in pvp and trying to force them is counter productive there is a reason eve doesnt even have a million players and most of it is the free for all pvp mindset.i want to play eve without some asswhipe harrassing me and ruining my enjoyment of eve and right now the best place to do that is in high sec space most likely in a npc corp because nonpvp player corps can still be wardec and harassed again ruining my enjoyment of eve.ive tried low sec and even 0.0 and it wasnt even worth it a little bit total fustration, major loss of ships, i even traveled 35 jumps to a battle area and died in mere seconds upon entering the system by a ship over 20x my range away and far before i had a chance to have any fun making it pointless to continue doing an activity that was so stupid.im basicly a farmer,, i dont have 12 million points into razor sharp combat skills so im nothing more than a meat target only an idiot would throw away perfectly good ships and isk for someone else to have fun i might as well just delete them in the hanger and save myself the time and fustration.if they had a npn=pvp server id move there so fast it would crash the servers."
"few people like that extreme, but then few people play eve by the standards of mmos. we have our crowd, and we're fine with that. i think there's a much bigger market out there for games that feel like your actions matter than you do, and i think eve's longstanding gain in subscribers backs me up on that, but you're free to differ. that said, you certainly can't deny that a large portion of the eve player base likes the \"free for all pvp\" setting, and that to remove that setting would drive away a vast number of the existing players. what mmos are at a million? iirc, it's just wow and a couple asian ones. not hitting a million is not a mark of shame. also, i'm sure ccp has data on account expiries, and if they're losing 90% of people, i think they can look into why. but then, i don't think they're losing all that many people. even the pathological carebears have a refuge that isn't especially dangerous, and they can go about their bearish ways without being forced out by undesired pvp. so you want to play eve, but only if it's the platonic ideal of eve that exists in your head? scrub. check out the skills and ships&modules forums, learn how to put together a pvp ship. join a corp that lets you fight in gang, instead of solo. and don't fly what you can't afford to lose. i wasn't kidding when i said \"learn to play\" - you actually need to learn how to play this game if you want to pvp worth a damn. who needs 12 million sp in combat to compete? check out my old buddy ren tales' post on noob pvp for an idea of how to do it just fine, without needing huge numbers of sp. it's slightly dated, due to the nos nerf, but it's still mostly applicable. also, they do have a non-pvp server. it's called singularity."
"make casinos a low and no-sec option only. also bring back the black market and make low sec stations the only place where you can market anything not mass-produced. that should bring people down there."
"im a carebear, one of the few still subscribing to eve, it is very fustrating to work missions when your are forced to take a big standing hit when the misson is located in low sec space, one of the reasons i hate eve missons besides they are a boring grind.it is far too risky to go into low sec space because of all the gankers so i never go there, ever. so it would end alot of annoyance and fustration if you would add filters to mission givers and buy and sell planets either place a collumn in the buy/sell noting the security of the planet or at least make low security planets red. if i could id filter low sec out of all aspects of my game expirence.and you wonder why everyone crowds into high sec,,,"
"you get one mission rejection every 4 hours. if that isn't enough for you, find an agent farther from lowsec. as for market orders, you can already filter out lowsec. go to the settings tab on your market page, uncheck the lowsec box. i'd like to see the same option for the science and industry page, but it exists for the market."
"it would be nice if drone skills applied to all drones.currently it seems to me that only combat drones are affeced. my mining drones are no faster than default, and i'm sure they don't have any more armor either."
"it'd be nice if there was some skill to increase the efficiency of combat utility drones. at the moment they suck quite a lot and have no means of improvement other than ccp boosting them directly. quite similar with electronic warfare drones."
"like that idea"
"hm. we had people leave/join corps quite a bit in one of our wars. when someone did it repetedly, a petition apparently was successful.still. highly annoying."
"should be fixed, but at the same time as corp hopping in general is fixed."
"i support this idea.but, as a concord deputy, you should operate under the same rules as ai concord. obviously then you couldn't operate in 0.4 and lower, gates into those systems would deny you access. as previously posted, you should have a high standing with your races npcs, and high sec status. you should automatically be aggro'ed to any player breaking concord rules, as long as you are a concord deputy. ab"
"as discussed in this dev blog, system security status and security standing should be more intrinsically linked. here's a proposal that should make all of the computations a little easier.change system security standings slightly, and base standings loss upon these numbers a simple multiple of system security vs. criminal violation.instead of 1.0, 0.9 ect ect, start at 10! how simple is that??thus, ganking a ship in sec 10 gets you 10x the security standing loss! 0.02 * 10 for attacking a ship.this would make displaying the system's true security a lot easier to display as well.+9.348, +5.72, -1.911 on down to -10.ofc, once the sec reaches +0.000 you no longer take any standings loss for attacking non-wts."
"so you're proposing to multiply security statuses by 10, display them to four significant digits, and massively increase sec loss in general? the first two are pointless, and the last one is stupid. plus, it doesn't even work - podkilling someone for 12%, in 1.0or rather 10.000, would result in a 120% decline to your sec status. i've heard of -10 pirates, but -13 pirates are just silly."
"currently a small pos can go into reinforced mode for nearly 5 days.a medium tower 1d17ha large only 24 hours or less!.now, a small tower has relatively few anchored items to keep safe, and few guns to online/reload. why nearly a week of reinforced mode?the reinforced time needs to be inverted, giving large pos, and their extensive arrays, a longer period to withstand continued assault.or:all towers should have the same reinforce timer adjust stront bays to hold, say, 2 days of fuel for all pos sizes. faction pos towers getting a larger stront bay"
"prefer the second optiongiven that every other aspect of the towers is pure 1:2:4 linear scaling, but yes."
"quite simple realy, can we please have the two files involved in making the create alchemy progam work with eve un-blacklisted from the bin directory.this will allow is creative / vista users to get hardward sound back..thanks-cj"
"i have to agree with the goon first time ever"
"t2 bpos are fine and available to everyone.just buy one."
"t2 bpos are fine. they don't influence the market on popular items. they do provide the holder with a structural advantage that guarantees them a profit unless everyone else is selling at a substantial loss.if you look at the prices charged for the more popular ones, they are being valued fairly irrationally. they assume that these items will continue to be popular for many years into the future. if ccp ever introduces t3 items or something else happens in game a few years from now that makes these items less popular, the people buying the bpos today are going to get burned and will most likely never recoup their investment. it's not too hard to argue that investing 60 billion in a bpo versus using that same 60 billion as working capital and building based on invention is pretty foolish.so, let the fools have that rare stamp in their stamp collection, if that's what makes them happy. it's no skin off your nose."
"it would be easier for you to go play another game rather than to change the fundamentals of eve's design.that is not a little quip either. according to your post, you simply do not like eve. logging into eve is consent to pvp."
"please see this thread for an alternative solution.des jardin"
"firstly, a gay brother and a black girlfriend means nothing, you are not special, you are not a snowflake.secondly, those who accuse others of bigotry are in fact themselves bigots.you are guilty of what you accuse.where i am from, planet earth, we have many many types of people called individuals. we have all kinds here on earth, and all of them have no obligation to agree with each other, get along, or even like each other.forcing people to be the same and agreeable to a mundane level of existence is what we call mono-culture tyranny or tyranny of the masses.we wont have any of that forced-conformity filth here on earth, we enjoy being ourselves.making different types of people be the same causes resentment among the people, and people generally get really ****ed off and violent when they can not be themselves.i highly suggest you take that multi-cult stick out of your ass and let people be whoever they want to be.thirdly, if you would act like a human and drop the multi-cult rhetoric and propaganda maybe people would treat you better instead of treating you like a shady ******* with ulterior motives.respect begins and ends with you.handle your problems on the lowest level, meaning, be human and actually talk to the person who upset you instead of punishing an entire community because you are thin skinned.dehumanizing an entire game for your political beliefs is simply a crime against humanity.get yourself some salt, let people be themselves. who knows, you might actually make some friends."
"just going to get a stub up here for helping to organize the discussions for changes to sov.general discussion thread that this should be a fork off of: linkagemy proposal outline in progress threadonce we go with the planet based sov system, there's a great question of what to do with pos's.main concern is that once sov is won, there should be a mechanic for clearing out all the old pos's who have no right to exist near that planet.propose \"space laser\" for \"lasing\" said nimby pos's into the debris belt. construction of planetary defense platform results in reinforcement of all pos's who are at bad standings with alliance. if they're not taken down while reinforced, they get popped. no money back. it's a defense platform, so it makes sense that it blows things up other concern is for losec people. not really sure how it affects them since i'm not a losec guy. losec to me is where to find war targets. <U+304B><U+306A>should losec have the same system of sov and should it involve fanciful new pos's or what?"
"people will presumably not keep useless poses fueled, and as such they'll offline. make it so that offlined poses, like any other piece of anchored debris, disappear after 30 days. no need for odd solutions like pos-popping lasers."
"issue i'm getting at is the pos's that are occupying valuable moons. should i be fighting over a space at a moon in the old pos system instead of my hard fought for and potentially easier to defend the planet? do we still want to see moon fights after the sov changes?as for the other towers, yeah, with no other purpose, they're not going to become an issue."
"general discussion thread that this should be a fork off of: linkagemy proposal outline in progress threadthreading this as not to clog up our main discussions.regarding a boost to 0.0 income, more meaningful 0.0 sov, and more warfare granularity, i've come up with a cool rough concept.planetary production platformmodular hardware that is the basis of civilization in 0.0. can be quickly fielded, uses produced materials to finish self-construction and repair, and is 0.0 owner friendly in it's defensive behavior.can be configured at a planet where sov is owned. deployed and configured either for gas production gas giant planets or ore production rocky planets.pos-esque guns to deter the random mauler with t1 crystals.rolling reinforcement system.every successful attack starts an \"operationally reinforced\" timer and reduces production by a small amount and starts burning a tiny amount of stront.when the timer goes down, the platform will attempt to repair incapacitated parts of itself. it temporarily lifts the reinforced shield to allow this to process to happen.another successful attack requires more hp, activates another timer, increases fuel consumption, and decreased production. rough proposals:production goes down in a 95%, 85%, 75%, 50%, 25%, death pattern.fuel consumption becomes a little troublesome after the 75% level.hp is double for each phase and takes about 40m for final platform death.this is much like the pos system of brokered fights. timer based, but a lot more granular. times should be made as not to cause too much of a pain. i had considered eight or twelve hour set timers to make the process straightforward. theory is, the first two attacks are kind of meaningless. after that, the defender starts needing to respond or face some stiff income loss.produced materials are a either a special gas mixture or special ore mixture.more diverse than materials obtained from moons since planets are of slightly more even composition.requires moon materials and a free reactor to extract the ore's sub-components into our familiar moon goop and asteroid ores $$$. you use moon material to extract different moon material and some minerals. this will help balance regions with \"bad\" or \"horrible\" moons with regions where money mints are more common.increase in general 0.0 wealth through the nice increases in production that planets would afford. provides a granular target of 0.0 warfare that can be made pvp by defenders or economic for attackers. increase in 0.0 alliance independence from empire.i'm proposing that these structures can only be built in 0.0 to further differentiate empire 0.0 from real deal 0.0. time to give the 0.0 alliances a boost. with the better tools of sov and the granularity of exposure, there's already going to be more access to 0.0 and more vulnerability to the losec vagrants.i know ccp intended for moon compositions to stimulate trade blah blah blah, but it didn't work out that way and this is one thing that could potentially provide some early balance to a final solution if there is one. 0.0 alliances should really be more independent in my opinion. let losec have to go hunting for other components. 0.0 empires are civilizations that stand on their own"
"back to the independent 0.0 empires thing, forgot to stuff in the idea of possibly being able to produce some npc pos fuel. robotics parts etc. seriously. who wants to travel to hisec to fuel a pos when they could be pew-pewing. fun fun."
"very last link in jade's post above yours. sadly, there are no minutes for most meetings, so chatlogs are what we get."
"lol bane got voted down again, 3rd strike and out. who can be more ineffective than that guy? jade has better chance off changing 0.0 than he has of changing cap ships"
"i'm rather amazed by that vote on the forum changes. for one, you can submit your 2nd and 3rd batches of issues at any point you desire. it's not a matter of missing the deadline, because there is no deadline, you just submit your list and get responses back in 2 weeks. of course, that changes if ccp is screwing around with the founding document somehow, but from what i know, \"missing the deadline\" is a bogus concern. furthermore, even if you are pressed for time, just resolve to have a five-minute meeting in two days' time for this one issue. it'd pass easily, without bitterness and the setting of a truly awful precedent, and i can't imagine you're going to have the stuff ready for formal submission before then anyways. also, in the amount of time you spent debating whether arithron could talk after the vote, he could have typed up his response three times over. word of advice to ari and all the other alternates who may find yourselves in this position - just say your piece, and the debate over whether you're allowed to or not will end far faster. continuing to read..."
"okay, finished reading. i only have one more question. that bit at the end, where you guys knocked off issues in rapid succession by just voting on them, why don't you do that more often? discuss before, vote during. i acknowledge that the ccp forums are dreck, and that you can't get a proper list of members for access control purposes to make such a forum work on this siteat least not until someone on ccp's side swallows their pride and downloads some proper forum software instead of continuing to use the present abortion, but isn't this why you registered a domain like www.eve-csm.com? put up a discussion board, make one section read-only for non-members, and debate everything there. or if that doesn't work for you - which, given the history of updates on that site, it might not - just figure out what's on the agenda in advance and talk about it in its own thread. of course, that'd mean longer debate, but it'd also mean better debate, and shorter meetings. given that you seem to be unable to finish meetings properly due to other commitments/odd hours, keeping the hours as flexible as possible, by moving the bulk of the debate to a week-long period instead of the meeting itself, should allow more people to participateincluding the poor aussie, though i see he's been attending more often lately. for that matter, i don't know why you even have \"meetings\". just vote on the forums. if you use the off-site forums it's even easy, since any forum software worth its saltcough, cough has polling options. but even without those, just posting \"i vote aye\" should do the trick."
"when is the next meeting? we should really have on next sunday, to catch up."
"oi, i have a name you know : the reason i have been there more recently is due to the meeting start time being moved to 2am monday morning my time rather than the 4am it used to be./rant onanyway, pretty much what you asked for has been suggested a few times already by multiple people involved in the csm. i just find it ridiculous that the csm can't even post it's meeting minutes to a ccp hosted site let alone have a sub-forum hat can have the discussions needed for the issues that do come up. unfortunately it relies on the goodwill of serenity who hosts the mailing list and jade who is posting the minutes to his own corp forum. if neither of them are in the next csm, it's going to be fun to see what happens to the information flow.this time i will point fingers - ccp your lack of support tools for the csm is a major problem and needs addressing immediately. you demand a lot from the csm in both time and effort, it would be nice to see the support from your end in basic functionality of information flow and dissemination.1. a ccp hosted mailing list2. a ccp hosted csm forum for delegates to discuss issues3. a ccp hosted site for posting of meeting minutes/agendas/documentsall are needed before this situation turns into a complete farce when people start deciding they no longer want to donate their own personal servers to the cause./rant end"
"signed..."
"fraid not. ccp asked us to submit batch #2 around now and so that is what we were doing. batch #3 will go in in early october so that we can have the online discussion with them before we end our terms.with the first batch we did indeed have a mid-week 'finalising' meeting but the chair didn't schedule one this time as it turned out we wasted so much time with 'some people' deciding to take ages restating the issue that we went on for many-too-many hours.iz"
"\"around now\" doesn't have 2 days of leeway? besides, from the discussions, it looks like it'll take you 2 days to get the final submission documents ready anyways. and if the chair didn't schedule a meeting, then someone who knows how to work committee structures should have had a brief chat with the chair to explain the merits of not violating one of your more fundamental rules unnecessarily."
"[ 2008.08.17 20:15:41 ] jade constantine > so its 15. radical change to 0.0 sovereignty sov \"points\" from activity -jade<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.17 20:16:09 ] darius johnson > !<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.17 20:16:14 ] jade constantine > this is a working proposal which is basically vision stuff rather than specifics - and the principle is that sovereignty changes from being a fixed thing that you get from simply putting towers up<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.17 20:16:17 ] hardin > !<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.17 20:16:32 ] jade constantine > into become a value that is increased by actually \"doing things\" in your claimed space<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.17 20:16:46 ] bane glorious > !<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.17 20:16:50 ] jade constantine > ie pvp'ing, ratting, mining, even using gates and such .... some strutures will have an effect on it<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.17 20:16:58 ] jade constantine > but the basic effect should be<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.17 20:17:10 ] jade constantine > if you are active in your space you get to build sov points<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.17 20:17:26 ] jade constantine > that allow the bigger strategic modules - like bridges and jammers and cap yards etc etc<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.17 20:17:43 ] jade constantine > while if you are not active in your space - sov will drip away and return to a neutral level<U+FEFF>[ 2008.08.17 20:17:47 ] inanna zuni > !! jade - we've read it; a one -post summary should suffice this late in the day- 20.15:41 -> 20:17:47 !thats a 2min introduction to an issue out of a 5 hour meeting. don't you think you might be exaggerating a little?"
"time flies when you're having fun. conversely, when you're bored and tired, things seem to take 10x as long as they actually do. not exaggeration, merely misperception."
"right, as you might have noticed, i have been writing a bunch of topics which tries to address certain key issues, which i see being the procedural issues for the csm.i see a lot of discussion about the csm. but i would like to have a discussionand gather feedback about what people think should be done, in order for csm to improve. based on this feedback, it's my intention to come up with a bunch of suggestions for changing the csm document, in order to have the csm2 be a large improvement compared to csm1.so lets gather up all the feedback and figure out how to improve this thing. cheers."
"wee you have value to the community!ps still glad i voted for you :p"
"actually, procedure is something that is vital to the csm. however, you have bypassed such procedure in the past and it is interesting that you now are campaigning for its importance for instance, see meeting log on 17th august re: forum 7 day rule.what would be more helpful and constructive is discussion of issues before meetings, interaction with players via the forums, and adjustment/changes made to issues to take account of player concerns.instead, what we see, are many ill-thought through issues being brought up at meetings and voted out. we also see many issues at meetings that clearly are pet-projects and there is a stubborn reluctance to alter one's own ideas or proposals to take account of other ideas etc. this narcissistic method of operating is not conducive to productive csm meetings, or an effective csm.by discussion, i mean discussion meetings....not mailing issues and promptly ignoring replies if you get them.take care,arithron"
"ideally what you want is a forum that is restricted to csm/ccp posters only, though readable by anyone. then, when a topic in the assembly hall catches a csm's eye they can create a topic in the csm discussion forum with links to the submission document so that all csm members can review the idea and post up their queries/comments at leisure. then, once the original topic has been on the board for 7 days the csm can move to vote on that issue.this would replace the current csm meetings with everyone in a single channel at a given time.pro's- easier to give a clear and concise answer to queries as you're not having to break up your reply by the chat line limit. this helps to avoid the current confusion when multiple people have queries that pop up in the middle of someone explaining their point.- issues get dealt with faster as you don't have to wait till the next batch of issues are dealt with.- timezone issues are eliminated for csm members as all discussion/voting does not rely on all the members being present at the same time.- less reliance on alternatives for the same reason, an alternative should only be called to the csm should something happen to one of the main csm members that would prevent them taking part in csm business for an extended period of time e.g. holiday, illness etcissues directly triggered from a dev blog should have a 7 day timer from the date of the dev blog, not the date of the issue being raised in the assembly hall.there should be a mechanism in place to allow for time critical issues to be pulled forward from the 7 day limit for example, had the issue concerning forum changes not been voted on last night then you would have had to wait 3 months before you could put it to ccp by which time the changes would likely have already been implemented.the proposed forum should be carefully monitored by ccp to allow speedy resolution of issues by getting a response from the correct dev on any given issue in the issue topic itself, csm members can then debate with ccp any queries concerning the response. once an issue has been resolved to the satisfaction of the csm that topic can then be locked.any face to face meeting with ccp should focus only on big picture issues and visions for the future, general queries should be answered on the forum."
"it just seems like there's some sense of issue fatigue based on the last chatlog. csm members either don't care about or fail to read up on or discuss some topics, while other issues aren't clearly written or are too heavy on details to summarize.basically prior to being brought up for a vote, there should be some actual workshopping, outside of the meeting, by the csm so as to present something likely to be passed. the actual in-channel meeting time is wasted without good preparation.really, that's why you guys need a forum to discuss upcoming issues in and make changes to topics before they are formally presented and voted on."
"1 debate issues before the meeting, not during, on a publicly accessible forum of some type. i don't care whether it's the forum threads here, a separate forum you create, or what, but your meetings go far too long because you try to do everything there. 2 robert's rules of order. this should have been literally the first vote at the first meeting. without rules of order, meetings are just catfights with a threadbare pretense of dignity. 3 stop screwing with what rules of order you do have. if there's a mandated 7-day consultation, then consult for 7 days, don't just ignore it when you see fit. there's plenty of ways to respect such requirements while still doing what you want to do, don't ignore it and undermine yourselves when it is not absolutely necessary. 4 you need better processes for picking issues. right now, you have eight people who submit pet projects, and one guy who goes through and puts up everything that strikes his fancy. that is not a reasonable system. 5 too many good issues fall by the wayside. some of that is a lack of community response, but even the good ones that get enough supports to be reasonably considered20-30, say, don't always seem to make it. i'm thinking moving to biweekly meetings was a mistake. 6 would it be possible to find a friendly gm to sticky all the threads in the assembly hall that will be voted on at the upcoming meeting? say, send them a list on wednesdaywith the corresponding expectation that the agenda will be set by then, and have them stickified until sunday evening. that should give the community a better feedback mechanism, since they'll know exactly what will be talked about. 7 this one's a bit of a pet issue of mine, given how often i do this, but it seems like ideas proposed within threads often get overlooked, and only the first iteration of the idea is considered. that's not to say that all my ideas are good, of course, but i'd like to see the topic as a whole considered, not just the original idea. 8 this isn't something the csm can implement solo, but the forum software is desperately in need of overhaul. the standard assembly hall thread should be a proposal with a poll at the top of \"support/support, with reservations/oppose\", to eliminate all the content-free thumbs that have to be given out now. also, once polling is in place, things like the support/oppose nano nerf threads can be moved to eve general, where they belongand merged too!, and forums like f+i can have another tool for feedback on ideas.that's all i've got offhand, though i'll probably have more to say at a later date."
"there are such forums available- they are called jita park and assembly hall! count through the issues raised there and you can clearly see how much discussion and interaction issues get by csm members. its not just input from csm on issues that is important- player suggestions etc are just as valuable.above this discussion, you need adjustment of stances and ideas by csm members that are going to bring the issue to the meetings for voting purposes. when presented to meetings, an issue should have already been through the development phase and be a much more robust issue for voting purposes, accommodating concerns/suggestions of players and fellow csm members. bad ideas and issues should already have been clearly identified as requiring further development and work.i disagree that the 7 day rule should be bypassed in any circumstances. forums, although useful, do not affect in-game play or detract from eve in any in-game way otherwise 80% of the players are currently getting some lesser experience!. not everyone uses them at all...take care,arithron"
"thanks for all the feedback so far. i quite frankly agree with most, if not all, of the points made so far.keep it coming edit: as for the point about the 7-day rule in regards to our last meeting, it was jade who put it on in my namei didn't request it, exactly due to the 7-day rule."
"i'm not really certain why you bother to have the \"get everyone into a chat channel for two hours\" meetings. you could do all of that asynchronously on a forum.the csm could have a \"voting\" forum where every issue is a poll-thread the poll options being \"vote yes\" and \"vote no\". an issue stays in the voting forum for a week, during which time everyone can read up on the issue, post discussion about it, etc.at the end of the week, the poll is closed and the votes entered stand. if someone didn't vote in the poll, then they abstain read: they vote no. with a week to discuss and vote, you can get rid of the voting-duties of alternates except in extreme cases where someone goes on a two-week vacation with no net access or whatever.and as a bonus no one has to keep the \"minutes\" of the discussion -- it's right there on the forum as a permanent record.you also wouldn't need anyone to moderate the discussion. i mean you wouldn't need someone determining the order of when people speak, when they're talking too long, etc."
"agreed, however in both of those cases meaningful discussion on any topic is easily swamped by masses of spam posts. could you imagine, for example, trying to keep track of a discussion in either one of the nano-nerf threads in the assembly hall? then multiply that by the number of hot topic debates that spring up. this is why a forum dedicated to the csm is needed.meanwhile on the public discussion thread debate will continue and there's nothing stopping the csm from bringing decent alternative ideas into their discussion that have been raised on that thread.in an ideal world that would be the case, unfortunately a lot of the ideas hitting the assembly hall, at the moment at least, seem to be poorly thought out, incomplete and jumbled in their implementation.for example, the issue identified in the original post title is often not the issue that the proposal is designed to fix and even if it is, the discussion thread often gets dragged off topic into whines concerning whatever the prevailant perceived problem of the month is ie nano's, carebear/greifer's* being catered to too much *delete as appropriate depending on who's posting, 0.0/empire arguementsas stated above, this would help to keep the csm discussion on topic.the problem with this is simple, yes the current issue was about the forums, however, say 5 days before the next submission deadline ccp announces a major change that does affect a large proportion of the eve player base for the sake of arguement, let's use something extremely unlikely like:- \"concord will extend their wtfpwned protection down to 0.1\". now, you can be sure that there will be a massive outcry if that did happen with the playerbase calling on the csm to raise the topic as a \"wtf are you playing at ccp!?!\". in this case, should the csm bypass the 7 day rule? or should they stick to the rule with the resulting silence from the csm being taken as tacit approval of the changes by ccp of the idea by the playerbase and the changes being implemented before the next csm deadline?i know in that case, i would want the csm to be able to bend the rule."
"1csm needs a publicy viewable forum that only they can post in for discussion of the upcoming meeting's proposals. this should be done before the actual official meeting. this will allow questioning/clarification of proposals before the meeting regardless of timezones with csm members spread all over the world i see this as essential and reduce the time wasting that occurs with questions that have already been covered in the proposals. it also allows the csm member to present/argue his proposal eloquently rather than during the meeting where time is limited assembly hall = swamped by spam. lastly it will provide a legible record of all previous csm proposals/discussions for the next csm delegates when the voting rolls around again.2csm should have already read the proposals that are on the agenda. any csm who asks for an explanation of the current topic during the voting has obviously not read the agenda and as such should not be on the csm if they cannot even be bothered to do their basic homework. there's a reason that meetings are overshooting timewise, it's because some csm's aren't doing what they are supposed to be doing and reading up on the proposals beforehand. as a result of this time is wasted during the meetings as you have to go over the proposals again for whichever person has been lazy and not bothered preparing for the meeting. if you do not have the time/inclination to do this then you should step down hell, you shouldn't even have run for the csm in the first place.3 current rules/procedures must be stuck to. no disregarding them because there is a particular issue that you personally want escalated 7 day rule is a prime example here. procedure/points of order are not up for discussion during the meeting, they are meant to be followed. discussion just wastes more time.4 abstentions should be removed. you are either for escalating the issue to ccp, or you are against it. abstaining shows that you either have no understanding of the proposal or just can't be bothered to make a decision. either way it shows poor leadership and brings into question your suitability for the csm in the first place.5 unannounced afk's. votes are being missed/defaulted because of unannounced afk's. csm's have been given a position of responsability by the rest of the eve playerbase. not bothering to let the rest of the council to know that you are going to be away because your dog got hit by a car or your house is on fire results in hold ups and missed votes. i understand that with the meetings current length of time see points 1 and 2 above there may be the time that a person needs to go afk, but these should be kept to the bare minimum and it is simple courtesy to let the chair know that this is going to happen.6 when voting yes/no, csm members should be stating \"yes, because *****\", or \"no, because ******\". some csm's do this already, idealy i want to see all csm members doing this. in addition if they have read/discussed the proposals before the meeting they can prepare their answer before this so it should not add any extra time to the duration of the meeting.7 don't waste time on uncessary buracracy. i can't stress this enough. whilst some of your proposals seem to have the right idea, others just seem intent on adding uncessary rules for things which are covered by simple common sense or existing rules. the recent high/low priorty vote proposal in a seperate thread you posted today is a prime example of this. if something is under discussion by the csm then it already has a high priority. any ordering of issues due to priority should be done by ccp and ccp only after the csm has submitted their proposals to them. this is because only ccp has the knowledge of their road map and the difficulty level of proposed plans/solutions. the csm should not be wasting their time discussing rules for how to discuss the proposed issues."
"1 csm-only forum for discussion. asked for since day 1.2 more communication with ccp. i liked it when they asked for our stance on factional warfare. we need a lot more of those inquiries.3 a wiki or whatever to keep these issues organized in one central place! it's one big mess and i'm the one that has to clean it up all the time."
"5/9 small unit pvpers voted into the council next time *ank counts as one btw  but seriously. needs the csm post only forums and better overall forum functionality and it does need better infrastructure support from ccp next time around. it can't be dependent on the chair/vice chair to provide hosting for fundamental communications resources. maybe some kind of each csm gets to pick 2 issues in each 14 day period? they signal their advocacy by moving an issue thread to the csm only posting forum and have a debate in the individual threads. voting at the end of the discussion phase. i dunno, something like that would be superior to what we have at the moment. but the kicker is it takes forum assets and infrastructure support. i'm pretty much convinced we've done the best with what we had this time around and unless ccp can provide more assets to the next csm it will have similar problems and potentially worse outcomes depending on the how much time and effort the new chair/vice chair are prepared to devote to it.basically its support from ccp that is needed on the infrastructure though - not getting carried away with internal bureaucracy for the sake of it."
"i wouldn't put a cap on the number of issues members can bring up. also, the implied rate of 18 votes per 2 weeks is really low."
"agree with pretty much all of that except my outrageous rule breaking to get the forum topic in anyways - i'm an anarchist at heart i guess - rules are made to be broken if they need to be. on that specific point i think because it wasn't much an actual issue we probably just need an alternative csm method of immediately addressing items of concern. \"csm says please don't nerf the tech lab forum\" isn't exactly rocket science or a huge potential use of ccp dev time and in my opinion its utterly ridiculous to have that scale of csm function held to the same discussion time and submission process as a fully-fledged bounty hunting/merc proposalfor example. some flexibility is needed. as for the rest - completely agree on the responsibility of csms - hopefully next time around people thinking about running will look at this term and reach a more reasonable assessment for whether they believe they can actually devote the time. csm isn't for everyone - it is a lot of hard work and can be extremely frustrating. tbh its not glamorous either and feels more like jury service that being president. things to bare in mind. absolutely agree on 7 - bureaucracy for the sake of it is total rubbish. total waste of everyone's time. the prime thing this inaugural council has achieved is actually firing through a bunch of issues and getting them to ccp. it has achieved something - its made it work. getting tied down in the minutiae of committee government is just clerical fetish and needs hurling out of the window in the interests of actually addressing what the community wants us to address."
"all depends on the scale of the issues really. and you mentioned somewhere else about the metrics for selecting these things? at the moment there is no real guidance. sure, some have their pet projects - some like me like to pick and choose interesting sounding issues and advocate them. the work rate of the csm's varies a lot as you can see - putting a cap on the issues per session would stop frenetic csm's dominating proceedings perhaps and make the electorate ask hard questions is certain csm's were not advocating issues for their slots? dunno. its an interesting question."
"you seem to think rules exist to prevent you from doing your job. if that is actually the case, you're using the wrong rules. various issues - the chair's power to mute or not, how abstaining works, etc. - must be properly addressed for a meeting to function as anything other than a wrestling match. disputes do arise, and rules exist to provide a non-violent way of settling those disputes. admittedly, violence is less of an issue when you're spread across four countries than it was in a medieval parliament, but the principle stands. this is why any well-written constitution has a fairly detailed set of fallback positions, along with someone who can deal with the unforseen by fiat if truly necessarysee the king-byng affair in canada, the dismissal in australia, or lincoln's changing of the quorum rules of the us congress. in the csm's case, those should be rro and xhagen - not jade - but insofar as those rules exist and are complete, which generally they are, they should be followed, not flouted. guidance shouldn't really be necessary - this is the sort of thing you guys should sort out on the mailing list. \"okay guys, we should probably be bringing forward about 20 issues a week, so let's just have everybody pick 2, and then we'll take the 2 most popular that haven't come up yet\". that might not be the best solution, but it's the best method for finding one imo. figure out how much you want to discuss, come up with an understanding. no solid rules for something this ephemeral, but there should be some discussion amongst you on how this all should function."
"a few interesting points raised so far that need some explanation:1. can anyone state an issue that has achieved the 5% required player voting base and been immediately put on the agenda of a csm meeting?i ask this because otherwise, all issues appearing on an agenda are put there due to a csm member supporting the issue. thus, it follows that if the issue is poorly thought out, inadequately explained or just simply a bad idea that won't work/benefit the players of eve, the csm member that supported it is to be held at fault.this occurs often, and the root cause of this is the total lack of interaction with players and interested parties via the forums supplied, or the total ignoring of those players and interested parties when they oppose/suggest alternate ideas etc.i can not agree with the argument that 'the forums are the reason that we can't discuss things/too many detractors etc'. it just smacks too much of a bad workperson blaming his/her tools. the reasons bad issues make it as far as meetings are varied: naivety on topics/areas, ignorance of other ideas/opinions, failure to actually consider implications of issues, failure to discuss and interact with players/interested parties, personal popularity for re-election, kudos etc, or just the plain stubborn reluctance to accept that their own ideas might not be as good as they think.cntd..."
"of course, these aren't all the reasons. however, more personal responsibilty by a csm member for their issue and their supposed desire to work for the benefit of the majority of players note: not their own personal gain, or their corp/alliances interests etc would see less dubious issues doomed to be voted down put onto the agenda.its obvious to see the benefit of hard work and proper discussion and interaction; these issues generally are escalated to ccp.2. i stated that under no circumstances should rules like the 7-day rule be broken. i highlighted this during the meeting, and i stand by it now. major changes to the game will result usually in a dev blog, with a forum thread started for player responses and discussion. the devs read and respond on these threads, so obviously this is an instant vechile for voicing concerns etc. indeed, many changes implemented turn out to be good, despite the doombringers predictions. these dev threads work remember the forum changes proposed last year for instance. the csm, by not stating anything to ccp, are by no means agreeing by silence to ccp about changes. an issue can be raised, be discussed, and brought up in the next meeting. i find it sad that players think ccp would implement changes without thinking through the consequences- they have produced a bloody good game as far as i am concerned, and i trust them to continue to improve it...limiting the amount of issues/votes etc for a csm rep are not answers to the problems currently faced. a lack of communication, as with any council or organisation, is solely to blame; communication with players, communication between the csm members, and communication with those with opposing viewpoints or experience in a different sphere within game.take care,arithron"
"even after the requirement was lowered, nothing has yet gotten particularly close. \"all against the nano nerf\" is i think the most popular thread, but it's not an issue, it's just in the assembly hall for the polling mechanic. can't really argue with that. there haven't been a lot of dumb ideas brought forward, all told, but the ones that have been are the fault of the member who did. the goal is to have a forum where csms can discuss, and everybody can read. no such forum exists, and given ccp's current forum software, it can't exist on the eve site. it doesn't cripple the csm, but it's the primary reason why meetings take so long. as long as they're following through on their election platform, i don't even object to them going for pet issues. but yes, trying to put together support for your ideas makes them more successful come voting time. who'd have thought? \"thinking through the consequences\" is not always enough - ccp seems to be blindsided by player opinion on many issues. expressing those opinions is the csm's primary job. i agree, though, that process is important."
"hmm, all this talk of guidelines and rules for the next csm makes me nervous...what the problem really boils down to is a total lack of communication between members, with preconcieved ideas about other members from the start playing a major role in this.just because the current csm or parts of it 'failed' in adhering to guidelines setout by ccp, or ignored underlying principles of the csm and its mandate, doesn't mean the next csm council will.from the outside looking in, it looks like any 'failures' you are implying are simply due to a lack of teamwork- its a pity, because there are members committed to making eve a better and richer game for players and players who want to be members with the same desires!.don't go hamstringing the next csm with new guidelines and constitutions, just because you couldn't work as a team this time....take care,arithron"
"here it is as i would post it.-----------this proposal includes a coordinated set of ideas that encompass changes to 0.0, sov warfare, and the roles of super-caps, caps, and sub-caps. the idea is that all of these concerns are so tightly related that its easier to try and solve all the problems together than to come up with piecemeal solutions. so this is not pick-and-choose. its all-or-none. here are the problems the solution tries to solve:in sov warfare, there is only one case where you would prefer to have a pilot in a sub-cap rather than in a capship, and that is a cynojammer takedown. seems like people would prefer that subcaps have more purpose in sov warfare that cant be better filled by caps.according to ccp, sov warfare needs a place for small gangs to contribute read: a step in sov warfare that cant be totally blobbed and can be done in subcaps.the cost/benefit analysis for living in 0.0 is not favorable.some people want roaming gangs to be able to do some level of infrastructural damage in conquerable space. but, allowing that makes problem #3 even worse.one ship killing 200 other ships by pushing one button is not very fun.and here are some good things about living in 0.0 that the proposal tries not to mess up:there are massive fleet battles featuring huge expensive capital and super-capital ships.it takes #1 to effectively wage sov warfare.those who have the best organization of the most dedicated players have the best chance of succeeding in 0.0.onto the changes.new sov warfare system  planetary basesintroduce a new sov-holding structure, the planetary base pb, which is anchored at a planet. moon-anchored pos no longer contribute to sov. each pb is associated with a set of five planetary defense stations pds with are located on different grids one au or so from the pb. pbs get the set of anchorable offensive and defensive modules that pos currently get in the live game, however cynojammers, jump bridges, cyno beacons and other non-combat modules can only be anchored at pos.the process of destroying a pb is exactly like destroying a pos, except that after the pb comes out of reinforced, it continues to be invulnerable until repped or until three out of its five pds are incapped. once the planetary base is vulnerable, it remains so as long as three out of five pds are incapped. the pds are designed to be subcap objectives; think of them like station services with far, far fewer hp. 20 bs should be able to take one out in twenty minutes or so. however, the pds are self-repairing. around 10 minutes after being incapped, the pds come back online with full hp. consequently, teams of subcaps from an attacking fleet need to constantly work to keep the majority of the pds down while the main fleet attacks the pb. the hp of the pb should be such that you can finish one off in two fully-utilized windows of opportunity with a fleet that includes 35 or so dreads. the hp is a tweakable balancing point.pds can only be targeted during the window of time after a pb exits reinforced and before the pb is repped. optional idea: while the planetary base is vulnerable, the guns at the planetary base dont fire. you could dream up other bonuses gained from disabling more than 3/5 pds.i have put a little faq at the end that explains how this addresses problems #1 and #2 above.pos changes  small gang harassment targetswith pos no longer being sov-holding structures, they can be made more vulnerable to attacks by roaming gangs that want to attack infrastructure."
"move all pos facilities moon-mining, research, production, storage, etc outside of the pos shields. the modules can be incapped by roamers to temporarily disable their function, but to destroy them an attacker must first destroy the pos control tower. when a pos module that contains a resource e.g. harvested moon mins or reaction products is incapped, some percentage of its contents are ejected into space for the harassers to keep. the process for destroying a pos should remain the same, but reduce the offensive modules anchorable at a pos so as to make the pos modules reasonably vulnerable to harassment read: a limited number of small guns, along with the normal neuts, scrams, ecm, etc.pos keep their current level of shields, so theyre still reasonable to use as staging structures during an invasion of a hostile system. but see the titan change further down as well. the hp of the modules that will now be outside of the pos shields is a balance point.pos changes  reducing the upkeep cost/increasing profitability.assumedly some people will actually go around incapping moon-mining modules and so forth, which is going to hurt the profitability of living in 0.0 which is already not so hot. to over-compensate, reduce the cost of maintaining the network of pos and increase their rates of production. decrease the up-front cost of a pos. reduce control tower base costs, and increase the drop-rates for faction tower bpcs. reduce the rate of pos fuel and trade goods consumption. increase silo and fuel-bay size to reduce the amount of tedious upkeep effort. this is on top of the fact that under the new sov warfare system described above, you can probably get by with fewer pos to begin with. increase reaction rates and min harvesting rates to over-compensate for the potential loss of resources to raiders. because this will affect the global supply of reaction products, it will probably be necessary to adjust the amounts of reaction products needed for t2 production. in a player-based economy like eve, if you're not increasing profitability by opening up a new market adding a new game mechanic, then you're achieving it by wealth transfer. the t2 market is the vehicle for transferring wealth from elsewhere into 0.0.how does this help the average joe? maybe if your alliance has a lower upkeep cost for maintaining the empire, it will reduce your taxes some. i mean probably theyll just use the extra isk to buy some jerk a mothership who will then never log in again, but the proposal cant be blamed for that. titan changes  make them deathstar-like xdin order to keep titans from dominating the defense of the pds, we need to get rid of the aoe doomsday. the new titan gets two modes of operation: one offensive, and one defensive.in offensive mode, the titan is mobile and can use its doomsday device. however, replace the aoe effect with a very powerful single-target damage effect sufficient to alpha any one capital ship. the exact damage is a tweakable balance point.in defensive mode, the titan is completely immobile but projects its shields outward as a pos-caliber force-field and can use its jump bridge. and when i say completely immobile, i mean un-bumpable but also unable to engage jump drives. when in defensive mode, the titans shield capacity is multiplied up to about the level of a large pos. the exact hp is a tweakable balance point. a titan can act as a staging point for an invasion in a pinch, although obviously you cant it into a cynojammed system and it wont go into reinforced when it gets into armor it just dies really quickly.the titan can switch modes on a longish cooldown balance point.creditsthis proposal is the result of fahtim meidires's thread; several people contributed to it and i wasn't the main one."
"the whole thing about the titan should be better fleshed out i guess. for example, what if a titan in defensive mode at half shields switches to offensive mode? does it get all its shields back or does it keep the same ratio half shields? what if a titan goes into defensive mode near the undock of a station, such that hostile craft undock into the pos-shield-like shields?i mean there are pretty obvious answers. just need to do the due diligence to decrease the extent to which the idea can be nit-picked apart. maybe when i'm bored at work i'll write even more words."
"if proposed at this stage, we're weak on the extra benefits afforded to 0.0 alliances for having to put up with more crap from losec raiding parties. that's a definite hit at the council."
"that looks really good toman. a couple academic points:you probably don't have to worry about fleshing out the details too too much, as long as there is a clear statement of what the balance intent is. i think you hit a good tone with the pos logistics simplification stuff, as it's not overly specific but basically says \"make it less costly to run to balance the raiding\". so with the titan changes, i'd just highlight the purpose behind it and not worry too much about length of cooldowns, etc.a small point to add about raiding: i'd like to see the potential for actual theft of resources - fuel or moon minerals - from a successful raid. maybe some percent of what is stored can be siphoned off, and to balance that there's a small bump in production rates in addition to the other overhead reductions that have been discussed.other than that i think it looks good and stressing the point that we are recommending balance points for ccp to use for each of the changes is a great strength of the proposal. i think as long as we avoid getting unnecessarily specific, people will be able to read through it and understand what the changes entail without getting hung up on misinterpretation of details. don't worry too much about having to cover every possible interpretation, i think just having an answer ready the faq idea was good is plenty sufficient. if they don't get it, they can read this thread to understand the idea better."
"posted in the assembly hall."
"nice work everybody."
"not going to be a party crasher at assembly hall, but i think you jumped the gun. no new improvements to 0.0 profitability to make up for the increase in overhead from raiding.not that they are hard to fix, but i'd just started up a thread with a proposal for some new income/vulnerabilities that would have taken care of these issues. considering this is aimed straight at darius's objections to adding more granularity to warfare, i'm surprised it hasn't gotten into the mix.anyway, all in all, still a good proposal. changes to sov i don't think could be much better. glad the titan changes snuck in there. anti-support nerf been needed for some time."
"he included mention of it nande. i think you'd be stepping on a land mine by trying to legislate exactly how 0.0 should be more profitable when all you need to do is say \"when implementing this, 0.0 profitability has to be balanced along with it\". should something like this make it into the game, they'd have to do plenty of testing and balancing to figure out just how much of an impact raiding ends up making and how best to balance it out, so theorizing that deep at this point is unnecessary - it'll get sorted out along the way."
"considering other proposals that are already escalated, i know pos's are headed for some reworking. still yet, there's nothing in there about what keeps a zealot coming in a 3am and dodging pos fire for a few hours while chipping away at a mining array, and there are some staunch voices opposing any new vulnerabilities to 0.0 for good reason. i don't think we got it fleshed out enough.but yes, you see my thumb on the proposal and i'd like to see how far it can go for now as well as testing the reaction of all the assembly readers."
"imo more eyes need to be on it before it can be improved any further; that's why i posted it.either this one will make it, or we'll get some more information and be able to enjoy writing another iteration. longass forum posts are all about the journey, not the destination."
"fair enough. i'll lay low for a few days. have some breakdancing to do in rl"
"truer words were never spoken."
"we have lately seen that there amount of issues being submitted has increased quite a bit. we are dealing with a ton of issues with very different levels of reach in terms of the amount of users it impacts.heartsone wrote a very reasonable post on what i will be discussing here.i agree that csm will have to prioritize all these issues. and that was also what ccp suggested for us to do, in order for us to let them know, what we see as important issues. we did this last time by creating a priority list. but it would be a very good idea to do it proactively too.it would work like this: whenever a vote is being had, instead of a binary value for if the issue should be escalated, all votesincluding no should have a low, medium or high attribute. this means that we will be able to assemble a priority list in a fair way. once we face ccp and get the feedback, a new round of votes should be had in order to make any last minute changes to this priority list, based on ccp's feedback, which will then make up the final list, which will be submitted to ccp. the voting options would be lower, current or higher priority. this means you can change the position of an issue quite easily. this changes the council from being just all about escalation/no , which i think is dearly needed.what do you guys think?"
"you lot run out of time on just voting whether to escalate or not so stuff gets pushed back to the next meeting as well as delegates dropping in and out of the meetings. this also points to poor planning by the meeting organiser if your not checking for optimum times as well as a lack of application by the delegates doing it if you can't manage a weekly meeting then maybe you shouldn't have applied for the job?.how will adding an extra layer of bureaucracy speed up the process?ok, just read the last meeting minutes, the dropping in/out wasn't as bad as the previous one so it looks like a better time was picked for all persons involved this time, so disregard that point, however the original point still stands how will adding extra bureaucracy help here?"
"lmao - why complicate matters during meetings?why not just have a list disseminated to the mailing list before items are sent to ccp, the delegates can then rank that list according to importance and based on that, compile the final ranking."
"i don't exactly think it will add complexity. lets have a look what i am suggesting.the current situation is like this:\"yes\"or\"no\"very simple. the amount of either of them, decides if it's escalated.now we add another value to this, which makes it look like:\"yes, high\" or \"yes, medium\" or \"yes, low\"or\"no, low\" etc. etc etc.it's still only the first parameter which decides if it goes to ccp. thus, it will not add complexity beyond having a person just put the vote together and read which priority the issue will get.this is much more efficient than the way we used in iceland. it would have to be done during the meeting, because the person who does the yes/no would also have to specify the priority. if we had to do it at the end of a cycle between each issue list being sent to ccp, imagine the complexity that it would be, trying to figure out for each issue, who should vote on the priority."
"i agree with omber.all issues making it as far as a csm meeting are or should be..., by virtue, important issues. i'd question why issues that are low priority are even making it that far since, if it has the player support, it must be important and be prioritised as such.take care,arithron"
"well, that's a nice illusion. it's nothing like that.there will always be low-priority issues."
"i agree that issues have variable priority, i disagree with the idea that you should enumerate that priority off the top. two reasons. one, ccp's input on how easy/hard it is to change something, and how well it fits in with their existing plans for the futurelike my offhand comment about reading the forums in the igb, and then finding out that the igb is slated for demolition matters a great deal when determining an issue's priority. two, given how chaotic your meetings are, and the fact that you often proceed on a 6-1 vote with 9 in the room, i can't imagine how you expect a 4-option voting systemor perhaps even a 6-option, if nays can also assign priorities to result in answers. for that matter, given your collective habit of procedural wrangling and the continuing absence of rules of order, i imagine that the first vote you hold under this system will take 45 minutes, result in a conclusion acceptable to nobody, and result in at least one person ragequitting. if there is an actual consensus on an idea's priority, include it in your submitted documents. if there's not, just submit it. no need to complicate a voting system that doesn't work particularly well as-is."
"can we have an example of a low priority issue then? i'm suspecting that one person's low priority is another's high priority! interaction with ccp before assigning priority, as discussed above, must be a required part of a responsible csm decision-making process.take care,arithron"
"please note that there will be a re-prioritization after we talk to ccp.so this is just a nice way of implementing prioritiztion prior to talking to ccp as well as afterwards, in order to compile a priority list with as little work as possible."
"granted, but i don't see why it's necessary beforehand. the next 2-4 submission roundsdepending on when the next csm's iceland trip is will be email based, there's no real limit on agenda time for those. as far as i'd go with preemptive prioritization is the previous proposal to make some submissions \"response only\"."
"this post by herschel sums it up nicely imo."
"damn good idea. one more way to alliance overlords to extort the sh*t out of their plebes.give cov-ops bs this ability as well, allowing infiltrators to have an accurate assessment of system activity. it shows names, standings, docked/undocked/shielded status, but only functions while the bs is cloaked. finding & decloaking it kills the infiltrator's sub-info network.also, the *basic* level local network would show activity timer so you know when that cov spy is afk. :d activity means warping and scanning, not just a mousetwitch every 15 seconds, or the 'afk' pilot active in multiple random channels, ect.the eve client should be more anal about activity timers and detection algorythms and once it suspects a cloaked ship is afk for more than, say, an hour... esp if some activity macro behavior is detected, it decloaks the ship. if a macro is detected it warps the decloaked cloaker to a belt. if they're not afk they'll freak out over this and react quickly... thus, they're actively playing!"
"nice idea. may i suggest instead of tieing it to a pos, make it a distructable station service much like the medical but alow it to reach out and tie in with other staions in the constilation. also make it vulnerable to a hacking mod loaded with nano virus goo. oh it would be nice to include the logistics class of ships in this idea maybe."
"it's interesting. but i don't see this as a good idea. it makes communications way too complicated and only benefits 0.0 alliances. i say no."
"good idea"
"i understand how you want to implement your idea, but why? why do you want to introduce this - that is in no way clear to me."
"the local issue is a hot topic. it has been debated among players a lot and ccp has also told that it is planning to do something with it. there were several topics about local here on csm, for example simply removing it, or swapping obligatory local to obligatory constellation chat. this idea is the best i have seen so far, so go, go, go, +1 support. it nerfs local which is a good thing but it nerfs it in a way that you can dampen the nerfing effect if you do for it. it gives advantage to those who are fighting in their own territory, let it be 0.0 or in empire, in the territory of their chosen faction. and it favours those who work in teams roaming gangs with recons. the only group who is definitely put into disadvantage by this are the solo ninja npcers... but thats okay to me. some parts of the proposal need refinement, it is not obvious how the standing-based access and the pay-for-service method can coexist. and the balancing needs to be done properly. but the idea itself is great."
"thx, i'll try to answer in short to your concerns:blob warfare issue: if the network hub module is outside the forcefield and 10'ish black ops ships can disable it quickly, then the anchorable hub module isn't so overpowered, right? : ccp will surely balance this, if this my proposal gets trough.defenders receive more love: with the current sov system, you are right, its no too complicated getting sov3, the only necessary condition is time yes, and you have to defend it too. but there are discussions about sov change too, i don't think, my proposal could get into game before a sov finetune. also if there are only 1-2 hub modules in system, its no too complicated to force the defenders to also use recon ships as backup. if there are lots of deadstars with hub modules in hte system, then defenders deserve their local for their fuel imho. this seems balanced to me.recon ships: yep, looks like you missed it, there are a few thoughts here.eccm,ew, black ops, hacking, cloaking: i will answer this in my next post, because of 358 char left only in this one. :"
"outside the pos modules have been the laughingstock of ccp. they promised us with the change of modules outside that small gang pos warfare would be possible. i have no faith that ccp can continue with any outside pos module without completely revamping the whole sov mechanic. and with the shredder pos around everywhere to protect cyno jammers, they would be included in those or made specifically for neural nets. black ops are currently in a pre-nerfed state. they can't cyno into a system with a jammer so its a null point to use them specifically against a pos. and to basically ask people to use tech two ships against laggy mechanics that fire through them with massive range and the precision of gunners i can not think that any pos module would be anywhere near a good thing. in fact if it was a pos module i would think it another kick in the shin to the sov warfare and game in general.i really think your system is too unbalanced. you propose to give defenders who often have lvl 3 the ability to have what is in effect better than current local in terms of it lets you know who exactly left which is useful in populated systems. and you give a ships that are covert operations scouts with basically no combat and reconnaissance ships the ability to give paltry information and do it in a vulnerable state with fuel consumption. they can't carry probes plus fuel and be delayed using the magic module to know how many people are in system to know if they should even drop probes. what you are in effect doing is slowing down the time it takes a recon to assemble any useful information from when they jump in by a severe amount. - jump in, get past any camps.- decloak, activate magic module- move around to not get scanned- wait for results of numbers in system- move some more- decide whether numbers in system qualify for dropping probes- move more, drop probes- relay information to friendliesany level 3 system will have their ratters and vulnerable assets loooong gone.any system with a neural net on a pos surely will have a system scanner as they are cheap and super powerful. you are hovering on the edge of time it takes an enemy to scan and warp in on a target before he can get results. and to be honest knowing the local count isn't much intel for that risk.it's tough to propose a system so tied to sov when we clamor for change.ccp proposed in a sov change they thought of making a deployable offensive cyno jammer. there could be something like that for neural nets i suppose.i await what you have planned for the hostile forces as you haven't had time to explain that yet as you are still forming up your proposal."
"hacking and ew/eccw: to be honest, i'd skip this in the first version. if the 1.0 version is working without lagging to hell, then these could be cool stuffs. i could have mention this in the opening post, but it seems to me, people are already skipping paragraphs, with this the description would be epic long and the whole idea would be more complex, than i'd like to keep in mind. actually i have some fresh ideas see black ops, but i dont't know, how would these impact the server side, what if it would get extra load because of one ew stuff. if it would cause extra lag imagine, what if 200 people are starting to hack, i would be cursed for a lifetime, thats why i picked \"cheap and safe solutions\", which should not cause significant surplus load to any node.black ops: after reading a couple times, i'm more and more sure, i should have pay more attention on my english classes, i could not figure out the point.about black ops: they also could receive the ability to fit a mobile network hub, like the combat recon ships, but i'm afraid this would make them pwnmachines. or they could fit scramblers, which makes them harder to detect. a scrambler module black ops only module could dampen the effectiveness by -1 or just set level 1 of hostile networks, affecting the black ops ship only.cloaking: cloakers force recon, covert ops should receive some tweaking. i'd say, they sould receive bonus in cloaked state against detection, but i'm against to boost them more, than enable cloaked scanning see the part about recon ships. they sould get only one of these. regular ships should not receive any kind of bonus in cloaked state, than they are cloaked."
"do cloaked ships show up in local count or any way while cloaked?"
"you got some valid points. but as i stated before, this is just a plan. the whole stuff is adjustable, the only important point is the chance of local management. i could not spent enough time with eve-related stuff lately work, summer, girls, so it seems i could not spend enough time with think this over and over, and get a good balance, but i don't think this is a big problem. the main point is already written in the \"short description\", in the opening post. if this passes trough, ccp will finetune it anyways.if you could suggest a better balance, i'd welcome it. if you have more well thought out suggestions, i wont be shy to give credit."
"i think regular ships should show up in cloaked state also, just like uncloaked. force recon ships, covops maybe black ops with ew are a good question. i'd say let them see in local count, but you probably wont like this answer. : there are pro-s and con-s in this situation and i drunk some beer after work, so let me think on the stuffs you mentioned till tomorrow..."
"make a tl dr post, i can't quite understand all that has been written in 3 max length replies"
"i think that recons would become too <U+FFFD>ber if they could evade being counted on local... just imagine, you move into some enemy system, with sov3/4, full of people, you hit the cloak in your rapier / arazu, and noone notices any hostile presence in system while you are ganking people in belts? one thing is sure: whenever a ship enters a system, there should a notification about it, no matter what. but as i pointed out above, i think they should be accounted for all the time if the nerural network level is high enough."
"i think the exact details have some problems, but the overall idea is a very good one. change intel away from being chat-based and towards being intel-based. this makes sense on every level. i assume that when this change is made, local chat will go to being a membership-optional, hidden-names chat channel? also, just to throw out some different numbers, how about this: level 1: 60 second delay, names of friendliesas defined by mutual >0 standings and total numbers only. provided by concord to all highsec pilots above -2.0 sec, or provided by a minimal scanning infrastructure1 scanner active. level 2: 30 second delay, names of all pilots. provided by factions to all highsec and lowsec pilots in faction-controlled space above +2.0 standing, or provided by sov 2 and a reasonable scanning infrastructure3 scanners active. level 3: no delay, all names and what ships everyone is flying. provided by scan probeprobably a new variety, or provided by sov 3 and a large scanning infrastructure6 scanners active. also provided to anyone who has a ship using one of these scan probes as a designated booster in gangor perhaps add a skill for how far the bonus extends. level 4: no delay, all names and ships, and the ability to warp to anyone as if they were in gang. provided exclusively by sov 4 and a massive scanning infrastructure10 scanners active. a cloaked ship is scanned as though the intel source is 1 level lower. level 1 doesn't count them, level 2 doesn't name them, level 3 doesn't tell you what ship they're inand still operates under a delay, and level 4 doesn't let you warp to them. a cloaked ship is still unscannable, and it provides a reasonable defence against enemy intel-gathering, but it's a clearly delineated bonus, and i feel it's of an appropriate size. scanners would be relatively large and expensive pos modules, or otherwise modules on whatever the most appropriate structure is if 0.0 infrastructure is changed dramatically. also, all names provided would be sorted by alliance/corporation a quick glance at show info is automatable imo, and you could see the lists with the usual + to expand-type compression. it'd make searchingespecially in places like jita far easier. also, of course, access to a scanner network could be rented out - i imagine cva would make a pretty penny off that service. i think this has a few advantages over the op's proposal. for one, level 1 and 2 are more clearly distinguished, and there are real advantages to running your own scanning infrastructure instead of relying on the npc one. only players can hit scanning level 3 and 4. for two, cloaking has advantages, including the fact that you can never be scanned out, but anyone with a scan probe can still find out who you are. i also like the \"cloaks degrade intel 1 level\" aspect. for three, it's better defined, outlining exactly what bonuses are attained from standings, modules, and sovereignty."
"still waiting ... can a csm please comment on the status of this issue"
"yes please look into this, the wreck and contents should be property of the person who caused it."
"i believe that when i get blown up the stuff in the wreck is mine not yours for blowing me up. npc's are different altogether and you can't compare them to pc's. just because you blow my ship up does not entitle you to loot my wreck. looting my wreck should be another offense. the only time i think you should get rights to the wreck is when you are at war with the guy killed."
"no, and it's a ridiculous suggestion.the \"loot\" belongs to the guy you just killed, not you."
"i'm guessing the op didn't see the part where the devs have said they don't even like war decs as they now stand. it's just a wild hunch, but its a pretty good bet that making them more profitable ahead of some other changes to them being made isn't going to be too high on the developer priority list.from the grumblings they've made about them, we're probably going to see a fairly serious revamp of how war decs work, and corps/alliances who do them as a profit making scheme are probably not going to like the outcome."
"what's wrong with that? if you're willing to pay someone to power-level you, why shouldn't you be allowed? and it's not like it'd be especially fast - storylines don't provide large bumps to faction standings, and they'd be even smaller once you start splitting them 2or 10 ways."
"the mutual exclusion standing mechanics do suck for pirate factions as it stands now. you'd think that doing missions for gallent should get you + to guristas for example both being fairly anti-caldari. it shouldn't be +standing to any empire = -standing to all pirate factions."
"almost forgot to support it myself."
"ever since this thread was posted in may 2008..."
"oh... and... thumbs up"
"i would totally support a streamlining of this process, just like happened to the datadump was streamlined.much support."
"yes, randomly removing features to replace them with new versions soontm doesn't work when it's three months later and we've heard nothing else."
"customization makes the game better. needs to fixed and allowed"
"ccp! please address this issue!we put a lot of effort in our logo and want it in the 'verse!issler"
"thumbs up!"
"make it so."
"yes please, make me redundant!and syndicate the logos via api while they're at it."
"thumb up!we want custom alliance logos"
"agreed"
"logos via api would be great but not as vitally important as getting a process for new ones again. we submitted ours before the old process was removed but never heard anything."
"yarr"
"sitting on a logo until new submission process done :-"
"l<U+FFFD>get hardin well from what i heard, ccp wrangler was hijacked by evil flametrowing snow middgets, and h.q. cant find him the whole new project is under iclandic ice. ohhh btw i support"
"smeker dkiler l<U+FFFD>tt p<U+FFFD> br<U+FFFD>stet...support!"
"supported"
"supported"
"yarr, support given"
"i submitted our alliance logo in may this year, and two months later or so they removed the option to submit logos and nothing's happened since. though it seems to be a symptom of a bigger problem, i wish it would be addressed."
"/me signsand can we do corporation logos to pweees?o_o;;;;"
"i completely agree. please push this issue as hard as you can. i think it is a very important point to the identiy of an allaince."
"support this 100% be nice to get ours up. how can ccp not give an update on something like this for this long? being a company they know that brand identity is everything."
"i want titans"
"no reason not to."
"supported"
"i completely agree with the idea.ccp should already have done something like this!"
"that's a cool idea. /signed"
"yes."
"additionally, it'd be great to have some built-in functionality similar to eft. why there isn't is fully beyond me."
"this seems pretty cool, and should be doable client-side, as you either have the materials or you don't, shouldn't be harder on the db then doing it manually."
"againstneeded to be looked at, but not crazy nerf"
"current nerfbat to big."
"[x] support"
"hamfisted attempt"
"i am relyen and i approve this message."
"the nano nerf is to hard hitting one is needed jsut not the one ccp is planing"
"while i am still against nerfing local, this is the best proposal for an alternative that i have seen so far. not just \"remove local\".it is interesting, but seems like a lot more work, which might not actually be a bad thing. if these was actually implemented, it would certainly change the way a mining op is run.but, i still see it favoring pirates and other criminals. i still would like to know who is entering/leaving the system, more importantly, what their standing is to me/my corp.ab"
"aiden, it is obvious that this solution would need to do reverse standing lookups. if you go to a sysetm with low scanning level, and the system is only supposed to show the names of the friendlies, its not their standing towards you that matters, not the standing you have set towards them... or you could just put everyone to +10 and see it all."
"hell yes"
"supported.i also support falafel and hummus."
"i see nothing but good from this idea."
"not bad of an idea.however, you could just create an alt and use it as your savings account too."
"i dont know if this has been mentioned but as i see it its a matter of tatics.when a ceptor sees a battleship warp away it should be albe to warp past it and be ready and waiting when it comes out assuming you know where its going in larger systems this isnt a problem as much as long as the bs isnt making short warps i would figure smaller ships should be able to get there faster significanly if the warpspeed is 4-5 times and that doesnt happen on smaller warps"
"yes! to the nerf."
"yes. support for the nano changes."
"support"
"it breaks way too much.not supported"
"nerf it! will bring back more balance in pvp"
"i vote yes"
"support!"
"for the nanonerf. too bad, because nano ships are fun... but just too overpowered. balance is what makes eve great. more of it makes eve greater? :"
"support"
"changes seem sensible"
"for it."
"for goonswarm to farm them they would have to have missions in conquerable space."
"no. take away my only source of income ingame and i simply stop playing. you need isk to play and it's that simple. don't ruin that just because you want more vulnerable targets in low sec... pft."
"so how do miners/hisec explorers get by?"
"no. if u do lvl4 mission u cant avoid pirates.... if u go into a lowsec and u make mission there i would kill u sooner or later, but i think sooner....."
"and thus the l4 mission runners would need to either organize defense or give up their lucrative trade?... oh my, that sounds _terrible_."
"i doubt it"
"i think this is a terrible idea.i think the consequences of this change include:- an extreme drop in overall mission running: it's much less safe- a large drop in subscribers from those based on solo pve- significant change in overall eve economy this is a huge isk source: at the very least, prices on most named mods, rigs, and minerals jump significantly, and the overall isk put into the game drops, making those price hikes even more significant. as finding good named gear is harder, the gap between those able to afford and use t2 \"cheap\" now due to invention and those who can't widens. new players have a tougher time- ship pvp becomes essentially required for anyone interested in playing longer than the 2-3 months it takes to do all that empire has to offer for little isk+ those who continue to run missions band together out of necessity+ more targets for pvp+ more significant resources in lowsec to fight over+ 0.0 potential boostedi don't really thing the pros outweigh the cons here. that's my opinion.i think the real problem is not that highsec needs a nerf, but that lowsec needs a boost. as soon as lowsec becomes more attractive than highsec, *taking all aspects into consideration*, pilots will naturally move to lowsec. i think it should be easy to add new valuable and interesting game elements to lowsec boost mission rewards significantly 2x+, better minerals and mining, significantly better exploration sites, etc.. 0.0 may be fine, i'm speaking here about 0.1-0.4. if i made more isk in 0.3, after costs, logistics, new clones, replacement ships, etc. were taken into account, than i do in 0.6, i'd go to 0.3. but that's just not the case. but it should be, imho.specifically for hisec explorers - they don't. i did some highsec exploration some time ago, and spent far more on the probes than the sites i found were worth. it was a colossal waste of time and isk. exploration has no purposes whatsoever outside of lowsec / 0.0. and if you make it so that all that happens in highsec is trading and mining... tl;dr - highsec doesn't need a nerf, lowsec needs a boost."
"there are something like 23 high sec regions with low sec in them and something like 40+ 0.0 regions....yet the 0.0 pvp types still feel the need to have the 23 non-high sec regions opened up for pew. why? we i include myself cause this is an empire alt pvp types can't find something to do in all that space?yeesh....let's leave the carebears alone and fix the blob issues first."
"i apparently have more to say.let's assume that this is a good idea. then all that has to happen is that running missions in lowsec needs to be lucrative enough to make similar amounts of isk with similar effort in similar time. okay, so let's crunch some numbers.assumptions:1. it takes a whole hour to probe out a mission runner this seems high, really; i would expect a good prober to be much faster than this2. mission runners don't fit for pvp, so getting caught means death3. a good mission running fit is going to run about $125 million more or less standard tech ii raven, about $50 million including insurance to replace4. there's one pirate for every 10 mission runners in a system5. logistics wise, it takes one hour to find and fit a new ship if the old is destroyed6. the average level 4 mission runner makes $20 million / hour bounties/loot/salvageso, given these assumptions, every ten hours of missioning results in one lost ship, which requires $50 million and an extra hour to replace it. so roughly, 10% of the time is lost on extra logistics, and an extra $50 million is required.over that time period 10 hours the current profitability is, generously, $200 million. so now over 9 hours, $250 million, so that's a boost of about 40%.therefore, *just to break even*, the missions in question need to be boosted by 40%. to make people happy about this, you're going to have to tack on at least 25%-50% more as i've conveniently excluded logistics, new clones, implants, etc. in most of the above calculation, all of which hurt the mission runner isk-wise.so, roughly speaking, i think this isn't an all bad proposal if the bounties, rewards and bonuses on all lowsec level 4 missions were appropriately adjusted. but the adjustments have to be to what appear to be ludicrous levels for this to be a good idea.also, this assumes you fly a raven. if you fly a golem $600 million isk replacement costs, we'll say you had better be making about $90 million / hour running these missions. in other words, that entire ship class becomes worthless, and it existed only to run missions in the first place, so... yeah./not signed."
"you're assuming that a pirate that successfully scans a mission has a 100% chance of getting a kill. simply by using the scanner and clicking it once a minute or so, the mission-runner can lower that percentage drastically. were i hunting mission runners in 0.0 i don't think i'd use probing as my primary method of catching them. you're also assuming that the mission runners behave in exactly the same way in 0.0 as they would in hi-sec; so safespots, no scouts, no teamwork, no preparation. i would like to think that even the cariest of carebears might do things a little differently in 0.0 - call me an optimist."
"high-sec is not now, nor was it ever meant to be some kind of pvp-free zone."
"i disagree with this idea for many reasons.1- it is relatively easy to raise from lvl 1 to lvl 4 missions, the only constraint being the time it takes to be able to effectively use the right ship for these missions.while raising skills to be able to use a bs for instance, many people just do lvl 3 missions, deny them that and you push em back to lvl 2 missions. it creates a gap in one's skill development. which is already a hot topic amongst non-niche players that experience eve for the first time.2- pve and pvp are two completelly different beats in eve, you cant effectivelly pvp with a pve setup and vice versa. different modules and setups are required most of the time.so you will be throwing sheep to the wolves if people have to travel to pvp areas with pve setups.it is counter productive, and it is no one's fault but the nature of the design.3- it takes a long time to move from one game layer to another in eve, not everyone wants to join a big corp in sovereign space when they start eve some prefer to explore eve with their own group of friends.take for instance anew corp, for it to go to 0.0 and start working on sovereignty, can take a minimum of a year, high missions in high sec are the way these corps can amass the necessary funds and establish the necessary organization to be able to support the logistics involved with 0.0 play.4th- some corps just don't have the ambition for 0.0 not interested and wish to remain empire citizens all their live, having fun in the game. such a move would be perceived as \"forcing\" them towards a direction that ha little interest and is therefore unfun for them. the game as it is right now offers the choice, like any sand box game should, to many styles of play and enjoyment.5th- risk vs reward can't be applied when the sought after reward is simply fun. you cant impose a rule to the player saying \"if you want to have fun you have to risk yourself\". and many people play to have fun, not have isk or expensive modules, just simply fun.if you want to make eve an even smaller niche, by removing the possibility of the game to be fun to some people. go right ahead.there is other games to play in that case."
"obviously, my assumptions are going to be flawed, because calculating the *actual* costs of lowsec mission running is an extremely hard problem in way too many variables for a forum post. :the whole point of my post is that, if you want mission runners happy to go to lowsec, the apples-to-apples comparison had better make fiscal sense - in other words, my analysis above is based on the assumption that these carebears are generally playing the same way in lowsec that is, alone. and, i think for the vast majority of mission runners, it is a solo activity - group activity is fun, but most people are on their own because group play is less lucrative, generally, for level 1-4 missions. a group of 3 people running level 4 missions make less than 3 individuals each running a level 4 mission, unfortunately. not for younger players, but once you're able to solo them yourself... it's a solo thing.those that play intelligently will come out far ahead, and those that play less wisely will come out far behind, of course... but we're already talking about an essentially solo profession, so my estimates have to be based on solo play - no scouts, no logistics.all i'm really trying to say is, if you want mission runners happy to go to lowsec, you'd better pull out the giant isk signs and plant them squarely on the other side of that 0.5->0.4 gate. or else they're just not going to go happily.to rephrase yet another way, from the carebear missioner's perspective, it has to be worth it to risk ship, life, implants, modules, ammo, and loot -- all the time -- there had better be a jolly huge pot o' gold on the other side of that rainbow. since all that risk has to be piled upon what is essentially a risk-less activity, there have to be huge bonuses piled on the already-existent rewards."
"not just no, but hell no."
"ok, might be decent idea. even if it was just /find \"target\"etc and /destination clear, which bugs me most to clear all autopilot waypoints.two of the most slowest things to open in ui would be better with it map -> remove waypoints and p&p search, which is littered with bms."
"great idea for macro users"
"do you assume ccp is stupid?"
"supported....but i agree on the no movement commands...i'd also say no targeting...."
"/t2bpo"
"as a mad typing fool, i'm totally in for this./signed"
"bump for further discussion."
"must say that i beleive you have all come up with a very good and acceptable proposal to combat the nightmare that is 0.0 sovereignty warfare. this appears to be a well constructed and thought-out set of ideas, that when combined make a positive step towards a new sovereignty engine.congrats and you have my support!"
"against....solely because of this:you can make much more money in 0.0 with half a brain then you can make in high. if you can't afford losing money due to a small gang raiding your space and cutting off your economic modules...then you really shouldn't have that system to begin with. shrink and consolidate.for the most part i like your proposal with the exception of increasing money flow in null space. it would be more appropriate to propose everything you have without the increase moon minerals/decrease pos/pos fuel costs in money but with a caveat that the economics of living in 0.0 would need to be closely watched.prove that it would get more expensive before increasing iskies in the game.really well thought out though....i very much liked where you were going with it other then the economy thing."
"agreed. i love my little drones, but sometimes i swear they're trying to make me hit them."
"dont forget the fighters which engaged follow the target warping out ??? very enoying if you want to switch targets..!"
"debug my drones"
"i don't see the issue with people saying \"it would be weird for drones to pass through asteroids and such\"...dont missiles and every other weapon do that as well?"
"yeah, these bugs suck. /signed."
"1.0"
"this did not get much attention but imo is spot on, there are a lot of materials that can be synthetized from other raw materials. it probably would be less efficient than mining dymprosium directlly but still would give the option to produce synthetic materials this an be extended to other areas as well. imo this is a win-win situation: it gives an edge to the moon owners over synthetic producers which would still need to work hard to produce it, it allows competition without monopolization of resources, and it boosts the industry in the game, which is allways a good thing.+1 to that suggestion."
"i dont think the solution is depletion of moons.differentiate the output of moons. step one: make low ends output more and high ends less.step two: make all moons offer more different resources.step three: make it possible to mine multiple deposits of the same resource.so in effect alliances could still dominate high ends, but the number of moons they would have to cover would be larger. they would be attracted to moons with multiple high end deposits."
"aye! i really like that one as well!"
"answers are always nice, especially when they come from the people who matter."
"i personally think t2 bpo's should be removed from the game. it however should be fair, and the current t2 bpo holders need to be compensated appropriately. with that thought i would be interested in what ccp has to say on this issue."
"not without a much more significant increase in dps than has been suggested already. omni-tanks are much less effective than one that's designed for just one or two damage types, so a mere ~150% increase in dps output with a shift to racial damage types makes the change essentially meaningless.that said, i support the concept in principle."
"sentry guns are fine as they are."
"replace or enhance if you must sentries with roving npc patrols."
"why not increase the dps but give them worse tracking? or a larger signature resolution so smaller ships will still take some damage, but larger ships won't be able to just sit on the gate tanking the guns indefinitely.i have no problems with gate camps etc, i just don't see how battleships etc should be able to sit on a gate, perma-tanking the guns while smartbombing with relative impunity."
"yea ok, if you make it too hard to tank in the ships currently camping the gates, you will see a return of the mizh smarty gate camps. you know the one where he sits on the hek gate in otou in his nyx and kills everything with in reach? then you get to see all the wonderful whine posts of \"i was not even out of warp and i got killed why?!!\"and as far as getting more people into low-sec. you have to be kidding. there is nothing in low-sec to get the people into the damn belts. all you are doing is setting up a jb jewperhighway type network that makes the haulers as safe as they were in high sec.increase the value of the belts and then maybe it would make some sense. plus is you remember they buffed the guns already and reduced the shield recharge and resists on the ships."
"not supported in the slightest.any support for this is simply based on variations of above-quoted individual yeah i modified the post a smidge .also...lol thread."
"i support this, but not for the reason specified.i think that the guns probably do a fine job now... but i think it would be good for eve to make it easier to *travel* somewhere in lowsec. gatecamping is boring to those as do it, and lame and frustrating to those that receive it.i would rather encourage more people to get into lowsec, where more interesting fights can happen at stations, belts, poses, etc.remember, everyone traveling in lowsec is on their way somewhere. i would prefer to push combat to that somewhere rather than on the gates, and i think this would help.so, /signed."
"much better idea"
"there are no non-pvp areas in eve.trade, mining, market... your competing with other players no?one player uses a gun, another a wallet, another a pick axe. there is no difference really, only some weapons of choice take more planning/cunning than others.logging into eve is consent to pvp. chose your weapons wisely."
"bump, pretty important and i think it needs a serious look, will greatly reduce the ammounts of useless shooting and make people tend to their stuff moar, moar comments!"
"how would this change modules in space that have no tower online or the tower has been popped? pretty much no different is it? the tactic of leaving \"trash\" at a moon to block a new tower has been used with great success for some groups."
"i suggested 30days to make it \"easier\" to implement mechanically. since there is already a 30 day removal script in game, i would assume it would be far easier for the devs to include offline pos in this. instead of creating a whole new protocol to deal with towers.of course i am no programer so i could be wrong. that said though, i think your 5 day is a bit to short. **** happens in rl and 5days can be too short a time to deal with rl drama sometimes."
"id say that anchored/offlined tower modules would get the same timer if they arent inside a towers shields. shields go off, modules go bye bye 30 days later."
"clean them up somehow."
"damn good idea"
"i don't like being yelled at in fleet chat either!!!!!!11111"
"almost, if not better than the motd for fleet chat! brilliant!"
"i approve of this idea"
"can't see as this should be too bad at all to implement, with good benefits./signed"
"want models."
"want!"
"i'm all for this as long as ccp doesn't expect it to be unprofitable."
"as long as we don't get this, i'm in!"
"want."
"absolutely yes!"
"want rifter on my desk"
"i want a curse and a thorax!"
"yes"
"i want a gallentean fleet supported"
"/support!"
"please no. not aliens. thats just too clich<U+FFFD>.that aside i somewhat like the idea of explorable systems. though i would rather like to see a few new regions build up this way, where you could only see systems you had actually visited on the map. but that would have to be thought through carefully as that has a lot of implications and mechanics that needs sorting."
"unless the location of the stargates is changed frequantly and widely, they might as well be openly broadcasted as anyone who cares to know where the gates are will obtain the needed bookmarks.if the location of the stargates changes frequently and widely, then the logistics needed to function in those star systems will be impractical.what is the actual goal of these systems beyond sounding like a good idea on paper?"
"i would think the fact that the new systems would be player discovered is the coolest part. i think they should be broadcast after finding! imagine corps racing to discover new systems...trying to keep their new find quiet only to be made known by other corps who also stumbled upon it?this is exactly the kind of late game adventures the salty old sailors would love."
"no aliens please.a start at some of this stuff exists in exploration content. i think hidden systems isn't such a good idea, but hidden sites certainly is. more varied and more interesting exploration plexes out on the very fringes of space sounds exciting, though. it's just rather a pity it's so annoying to run plexes a long way from home, with the virtual requirement for two ships that exists currently.wtb probing-bonused but not cloaking-bonused t2 battlecruiser hull. perfect for solo hunting and plexing alike. truly something for everybody.but that's another thread. general thumbs up for this on the condition that you remove the aliens bit."
"when i fit my mastodon with cargo expanders t2 and use 2 cargo rigs i have 29243 m3 cargo space. i use it primairy for hauling stuff from and to a pos. whats the issue? well... a bc is 15000 packaged so it can't hold 2 bc's. i would like to see that the cargo space with t2 cargo expanders and 2 cargo rigs would be 30000 m3 so it can hold 2x bc. its a very little cargo upgrade 757 m3.i would rather see a hauler between a transporter and a freighter btw. something with 100k m3 or so. its plain stupid you need a freighter to haul bc's and bs's to and from a production pos."
"supported"
"yeah, you're right, the game should be changed to suit your specific needs. oh wait, no it shouldn't. not supported. train an itty v or something"
"well, it should it's worth a try isn'it? how else do you think speeds got changed in the game nano nerf? somebody brought it up once on the forums"
"even if you don't train an itty v and keep using the mastodon, you can still fit that much. just use a t2 expander rig. it's not impossible, just expensive."
"true, i could skill for itty 5 or get a t2 cargo rig 350m isk but thats not the point. giving the mastodon 800m3 extra when fitted for max hauling isn't much but does allow to hold 2 bc's or 3 cruisers. but like i said, i rather see a new hauler something between a transporter and a freighter with 100k m3 or so."
"ccp is working on a small freighter class ship.if you actually read the forums, you'd knew about it."
"actualy i have read about it. but if the development time is about the time it takes to develop the orca 1 year in development and still no eta then we will see it in about 2 years"
"is there any chance of rockets ever being looked into? they are extremely short range and low damage to boot. even the ships with bonuses can't make that much use of them."
"they are low range, but are high damage relatively.ignoring all skills and bonuses and using purely tech i gear,bloodclaw light missile does 75 kinetic damagestandard missile launcher i has a 15 second rate of fire75 damage over 15 seconds = 5 dpsthorn rocket does 25 kinetic damagerocket launcher i has a 4 second rate of fire25 damage over 4 seconds = 6.25 dpsas is common for missiles, closer range is higher damage, farther range is less. the same parallelism applies to heavy assaults vs. heavies, and torps vs. cruises. in this case, rockets are 25% more dps.you can get fairly absurd dps out of a thorn rage rocket kestrel max skills with 4 launcher iis with two bcs iis gives you 160 sustained dps.plus, with those rates of fire, it looks pretty cool."
"now this one i will really support"
"seems that its already in development."
"supported"
"i agree with this man"
"i like this idea a lot actually. add lows and/or change the useless tanking bonus to a capacity bonus.much better to recycle an underused ship class and skill than create a new one."
"agreedcurrent freighters are slow and take for ever to move from one place to another.1/2 sized and 2x better mobility. would have to be a different class of ship and not a t2 version of the hauler/transporters asking for the ability to pick up jetted cargo is probably asking a bit much, but i will anyway. single high slot...."
"/supported"
"good idea. good call. supported."
"hey look! it's already in development! post your yay!s there!"
"i am one of the people who are fond of faction cruisers. me in person it is the looks and the history behind each of them. my fav is the ashimmu but also the vigilant has a special place.but i think there must have been a error somewhere at sometime.lets compare the thorax with the ashimmu.thorax about a 1000pg 5 high 3 med 5low tech 1 cruiser one of my fav. works like a charm and does its job.ashimmu about 1000pg 7high 3 med 6low. ehe wth? 2 more high slots 1 more low and still a 1000pg? and i really want to fit 3 nos/neut there wich take 175pg each. atm i fly one with 3 nos 4 wep 1 mwd 1 medium repper. a normal setup i would say for a ship like this. should fit easy. but no i need two rcu ii to fit it.this is just one of the examples of the fact that they lack in fitting and some in bonuses.------------------------------------------some points1: faction cruisers remain tech 1 cruisers and therefore should not be better than a similar tech 2 counter part.2: faction cruisers have some specialised roles and should have the room to for fill those.3: a tech 2 cruiser is a improved version for a tech 1 counter part like the deimos is just a thorax with a ton of damage and like the thorax it has no tank. fine with that. but vigilant is a specialised version that is made to fly faster and to hit faster/smaller targets. but it has trouble to do so.a well i aitn a great one in these things but i would say it is clear these faction cruisers all of them save a few need a look at."
"bump"
"supportedyes please!"
"i support this idea!"
"support"
"i have been rather surprised that this was never implemented to start with, it really should be there already."
"same thing happened to me a while back.you don't know your insurance has run out until you try and make a claim. you can't even renew the policy early without loosing part of the insurance period.notifications should be sent out as soon as the policy expires or slightly earlier.chris"
"i was under the impression that the csm was formed after the t20 incident and one of their duties would be a type of oversight committee on ccp so that the players would not feel betrayed or cheated in such a manner. i bring up this issue with that idea in mind.tl:dr versiona daisho syndicate member was caught in an isk-seller/isk-farmer organizationhe alludes to account sharing but denies itsaid members account was banned and titan taken by ccphis friend claims that legal action is underwayi would like csm to do their investigatory role if they have one or for either ccp or the csm to give the players some closure on the matter. i'm not lawyer, not even an internet lawyer so ccp may not address an on-going legal matter, but maybe the csm can wiggle around that? either way, i want answers! i want the truth!"
"lastly, i am not a daisho alt or whatever. either ccp brings down the proof-hammer on this guy or else we get drama from ccp, either way i will get enjoyment out of this. i like reading the posts by people claiming innocence and then ccp crushes them by confirming they are isk sellers.i anxiously await more rofls dramas."
"the csm does not have an investigatory role - they're an advisory council, not forensic auditors."
"there's actually a video on you tube of the leaders of daisho in a hot tub, smoking crack with britany spears, amy winehouse, and three un-named third-world isk sellers. you can actually hear one of them saying \"here's your thousand dollars, dude, flying that titan is going to be soooo awesome.\" hang on, i'll try to find the link for you."
"if there really was a lawsuit, they would at least be able to say which court it was filed with, maybe even give some way to reference their specific case.from those links in the op i gathered the following: - someone takes isk from an account that isn't his. - he gets banned for it, and for looking like an isk seller. and we only have his word that he didn't buy it - he had a titan on that account which was lost because of his stupidity. - makes noise about a lawsuit, but doesn't give any information.so unless he proves that a lawsuit exists, the matter looks closed to me. as proof goes, i'll settle for a scan of the document the court gave him to confirm that the lawsuit was filed with confidential information like his name, address and phone number blanked out."
"please, leave the drama in caod, or eve general at worst. i want no part of it."
"yet this is the precise thing that the csm was advertised as being, an insight into the internal workings of ccp for the players in the wake of the t20 incident and the drama caused by it. the fact that the csm is now nothing but an advisory council on new changes which tbh they have no buisness advising about as the small number of ppl on the csm council can never properly represent the opinions of several thousand and from the looks of many of their posts far too many of them are guided by their own personal agendas over what the players really feel is warranted. so you have in effect brought the drama from caod yourself by stating that the csm is something other than what it was supposed to be."
"come on. this was a funny troll, but we're not really taking it seriously, are we?lets use our brains for a second here. under what conditions does ccp, as a matter of course, take assets and/or isk away? under what conditions do they ban accounts?in the first case, it's because you bought isk, right?in the second case, it's because you sold isk.player a gets 40 billion isk from player b whose alliance has been collecting it as \"rent\". player b turns around and gives it to his alliance, who buys a titan with it.ccp sees an unusual, inexplicable transfer of 40 billion isk, follows the money back to its origins, and, hmmmm... what have we here? isk sellers. looks like both player a and player b are wholesalers, who brokered a large isk purchase by an alliance, doesn't it?of course, player a says that player b is a friend of his who just gave him the isk for no good reason. i'll bet in 5 years that's the first time ccp has ever heard that from an isk buyer/seller .you have to understand that ccp can never see the money side of an isk for money transaction. all they can see is isk moving around for no good reason. when they see that, they look at the accounts involved to see if there is a pattern of it. when they find that there is, they:1 remove the isk/assets from the buyer.2 ban accounts that look to be in the seller chain.which, from the look of it, is exactly what they did here. moral of the story boys and girls is that if you get caught with your paws on 40 billion isk that came from isk sellers, you'd better have a better excuse for how you got it than \"my friend gave it to me\".are we done with this now?"
"even giving them the largest powers, ccp could allow them to audit a employee activity, not a audit of player activity.there are several privacy law that will make that illegal and in game considerations seeing as most of the csm members are part of some alliance to make that unwise."
"even if the csm has an accountability role, that would only kick in if you're suggesting that ccp is corrupt in this instance, and i don't think anybody on either side is alleging that. i'm sure those who have been banned are alleging incompetence, but i wouldn't think they're saying things like \"ccp just banned us because the gm responsible for bannings lost a ship to my titan\". furthermore, if 9 can't represent 250k effectively, how the hell can 435 represent 300 million? i admit, it's probably a stretch to call congress \"effective\", but the point stands. also, what's wrong with people being guided by their personal agendas? as long as they're open about those agendas during the election, and from what i recall they all were, then that's what they're supposed to do. jade, for example, got elected primarily on his vision of a different kind of 0.0 combat. whether you think those changes are good or not, a plurality of eve players liked them, and elected him to represent them and their favour towards those opinions. if he didn't follow through and attempt to advance those ideas, he'd be betraying everybody who voted for him. this is the whole point of electing representatives - you campaign on how you're going to act in representing your constituents, and ideally speaking are an honest enough fellow to actually act that way after being elected. it's the only way voters can make a sensible decision."
"would be nice for the cms's to ask ccp to put the incident to bed, however frankly dashi lost all right when they started taking money off farmers, especially if it was for rent, but i dont know the full story - but that activity is even worse than buying isk, your actaully helping the folks that have bought isk."
"so, who did you vote for? i voted for steel, and he is doing a fine job by my account.if a democracy like this is supposed to work, people need to be invested in the election process and actually vote for someone they think can represent them well.if your representative aint doing a bang job, vote differently next time.edited for clairity"
"ccp is worse than ******, got it."
"i just want to clarify something here.csm did meet with ccp's internal affair's team while were were in iceland.we had a presentation from them and then we had a q&a session.several members of the csm took the opportunity to ask very probing questions and we got very honest and straightforward answers.from my perspective ccp have put their house in order post the whole t20 scandal and everyone in the company is now highly aware of the consequences of their ingame actions. indead some staff members i talked to during our trip do not even play eve anymore because they feel too much 'pressure' moderating their ingame actions.the internal affairs team are consulted regularly by ccp employees regarding their action ingame and what does/does not cross the line and are now expected to play the game with a higher code of ethics than the majority of 'normal' players do!in addition to providing ccp 'players' with advice on what is an isn't acceptable in game the internal affairs team also conducts its own checks on the ingame activities of staff members accounts/ips. i am not going into detail on how these checks are conducted - we were sworn to secrecy - but to my albeit non-techie viewpoint they seemed fairly comprehensive.while i will not guarantee that a new 't20' episode or similar will not happen again sometimes people do stupid things i am a lot more confident that the chances have been significantly minimised - certainly no staff member seems unaware of the potential consequences.i would go as far to say that from what we were told about the policies and systems put in place post-t20 that ccps model would be an example of best practice in the mmo industry - but as i have not had an insight into how other mmo operators maybe i am wrong.anyway in summation while csm is more focused on game development issues and providing ccp with player feedback/response/feelings we have not totally abandoned our 'oversight' role.however, with regard to the specific incidents that prompted this thread i will not comment at this stage as the dust hasn't settled as yet..."
"supported, this makes no sense.tangentially, i would also like to know why capship chas take so much longer to load than any other kind of hangar in the game, despite holding far fewer items."
"that is the point, people will then have to assume that it's hidden for a reason, which it can be or it's just a decoy for the real transport coming in another shipping. suiciding being a risk free occupation i have no love for the cargo scanner."
"kinda related, but there are simmilar issues if you have locked bpo's in a corp hanger and the office is unrented due to not paying. getting the bpo's back took a petition, but for some bpo's multiple days of downtime can cost you some serious isk."
"bpos going missing seem to be a common bug, why is that?"
"just because t2 bpo's were once given out in the lottery doesn't mean everyone sourced them that way. i have paid hard earned cash for mine, ccp removing/modifying them without at least a years notice would be extremely annoying.or using a different analogy.lets remove the mexallon people purchased at 8 isk two years ago. obviously the new characters never got to buy the mexallon that cheap so the old ones shouldn't get to hold onto it.t2 bpo's when purchased are an investment, just like purchasing a pile of minerals to hold for resale some time in the future. remove our t2 bpo investment and you can also remove every other investment others have made in the past.remove t2 bpo's that were dropped in a lottery to the players who still hold them, sure nah but really everyone has the ability to choose their purchases in this game. t2 bpo's are becomming scarcer and scarcer. as you watch the wts forums you see less and less for sale. they are getting blown up often or people are holding onto them, leaving eve etc.invention easily fixes the balancing issues that once existed. i would say in some cases invention goes too far as i watch some items literally don't profit at all for the t2 bpo owner you actually lose money by producing them. this wouldn't be a fault of invention moreso stupid inventors who have no idea how to determine their invent/build costs.there aren't many items left that make big profit and all of them have artificial caps invention to stop things getting out of hand 13m cap recharger ii anyone?.everyone has the ability to purchase a t2 bpo if and when they want. they just need to save up and work for it like i and many many others did."
"the goons seek to open up the t2 issue so they can spend the billions of isk they got from farmers and ripping off of the general populace."
"there is an old idea that ccp could use here if they want to do something about the issue. its a pre-invention idea.as with any fundimental change to t2 bpos, it should be delayed at least a year after it is announce, even thought its effect will be gradual.its a simple idea:each month, npcs will use the contract system to auction one copy, and only one copy, of each t2 bpo. some will stay expensive forever at that rate, but at least they will be available for anyone to bid on. would also be a nice little isk sink, which the game needs more of and yes, as the isk would be paid to npcs, it would be a real isk sink...."
"i would kinda be ok with that last suggestion regarding the auction or at least i would consider it a fair compromise and i have always been in agreeance that more isk sinks are needed."
"what no this is a horrible idea"
"posting in a brilliant troll thread."
"is this the forum asian face? *^_^v"
"certain memebers need to stop pushing their own agenda's repeatedly, at meetings. i keep seeing some of the members trying to push forward the same idea just reworded every other meeting. while i understand they may think that what they think is \"important\" is the most important, this is not always the case to the player base as a whole.seriously some of you delegates need to be a little less self centered, and actually pay attention to the constituency as a whole. not just the part you personally agree with.--i also think that there needs to be something done with post in the assembly area that really belong in the features and ideas. i realise there is a fine line sometimes between assembly hall and f & i post, but sometimes it is just so obvious that people are posting in the assembly hall, when it should be in f&i first. to me f&i is where ideas get started, feedback generated, changes accomadated, and then if there seems to be a general consenus, it should be brought to the assembly hall if dev's failed to acknowledge it in f&i.---i do like the idea of no real \"live\" meetings, and a delegates only forum, with public view. although particapation would have to be recorded for historical purposes. since some of the delegates are less forum whoring than others."
"part of the problem regarding the 7 day rule isn't the rule itself, it's the simple fact that, as the csm have stated in the past, they only have three opportunities per term to present issues to ccp and ccp have mandated that the submission templates need to be with them a set period of time prior to their meetings or else the issue won't even be officially looked at. this happened with a couple of the issues at the iceland meeting where the vote was performed in plenty of time but the template document was accidentally left out of the submission to ccp for the agenda.no if's, no but's. miss the deadline and the issue doesn't go on the table until the following meeting which could end up being 2-3 months down the road.there has to be some degree of flexibility in how issues get from us to the csm and then from the csm to ccp otherwise we just bog the process down in pointless bureaucracy and nothing gets achieved as a result.having said that, the 7 day rule is in the csm vision document along with such promises as:-\"to further support the introduction of ideas from society members, a forum mechanism will be introduced which allows topics to be marked for resolution, ensuring that the matter is brought before the csm . using their own judgment, representatives will have the power to mark topics as they deem necessary namely by gauging which issues voters are generating the most debate about. once a topic is marked, voters will be able to indicate their support or disapproval anonymously. just as with the general election, the system will also prevent individuals from voting more than once on the topic.\"the underlined sections indicating issues that have been raised due to these features not being implemented correctly. at the moment, you need to stick to the 7 day rule, however, there's nothing stopping you from debating, and possibly changing, the rule in future if it becomes an obstacle to the smooth running of the csm. at the moment, ccp have provided you with certain shackles for example, the requirement to hold live meetings via the in game chat and next to no guidance in what you can, or can't do.you need to decide for yourself, what boundaries are necessary, and which ones need to be pushed back. to do that, however, ccp need to be taking a much more active role with the csm than 3 meetings a term. they need to be dealing with the csm on a daily basis, if need be, if only to ensure a smooth transision to the next csm when the current term ends."
"basically you need a chribba....a third party non-voting member to run the meetings and organize the flow.i think that the current csm did a fine job seeing how there was no organization or flow from the first day. all those competing personalities would make it tough on anyone."
"here's a thought . . .make it so that it costs a bit of isk to post a new topic or even to post in an existing one.1 less posts/topics = ccp wastes less time moderating and can spend more doing whatever else they could be doing.2 trolls, flamers, griefers, myself, and whateverelsers might think twice about writing something that really isn't all that productive.3 posts would have more of a chance of having been well thought out.4 all that transferred isk could be used simply for in-game economic inflation prevention, or for something creative like towards rl charities as was mentioned in another post somewhere around here.what do you think?no, you can't have my stuff and, yes, i was brave enough to post with my main! i know i asked for it . . . the title alone is a flame-magnet, so just assume that having spread this idea, that i've done what i set out to do and won't let you vicious, vicious people hurt my feelings! thanks for reading!lo*edited for grammar*"
"while i am still against nerfing local, this is the best proposal for an alternative that i have seen so far. not just \"remove local\".it is interesting, but seems like a lot more work, which might not actually be a bad thing. if these was actually implemented, it would certainly change the way a mining op is run.but, i still see it favoring pirates and other criminals. i still would like to know who is entering/leaving the system, more importantly, what their standing is to me/my corp.ab"
"aiden, it is obvious that this solution would need to do reverse standing lookups. if you go to a sysetm with low scanning level, and the system is only supposed to show the names of the friendlies, its not their standing towards you that matters, not the standing you have set towards them... or you could just put everyone to +10 and see it all."
"i'm guessing you didn't read the part where i was asking a csm rep to comment on the status of this issue ... basically the time for debate is over ... we're already 9 pages into it and it has run its course. for the 'johnny come latelys' .. you missed the bus .. you shoulda piped in before it was decided to bring it to ccp by the csm over 2 months agobut if you still insist on dragging out the discussion ... please go to page 1 and read the original post before you make a comment showing your complete ingnorance of the exact topic being discussed"
"or else?... you'll war dec me? grow up?i read your post. as i said in my post, it looks like it's counter to what the devs have in mind for war decs already and probably has a snoball's chance in hell of being prioritized ahead of other changes that they want to make to them. my feedback, therefore, is that bringing it to them at this time is a waste of csm bandwidth. it's fine if you don't like my feedback, but posturing like i'm an ignorant ass who didn't read your post just because you don't like my feedback only makes you look like one. thanks for your reply."
"how about coding something that does not allow npc corp pilots to loot any pc wreck that they are not on the killmail for or any npc wreck that they did not contribute damage to. this would solve a few issues.don't know if this is possible, but it is an idea that i have not seen mentioned in my scanning.slade"
"csm/ccp please update status"
"test server[idea] test server skill increase speed"
"pos[proposal] access logs for corporate hangars and ship maintenance"
"a simple way to deal with this, while not allowing storyline farming in the way described above would be:-run a regular encounter mission as a gang - all members of the gang who entered the final room of the encounter grid before the mission shows as being completed get one mission towards the storyline requirement. a mission cannot be handed in as complete unless the mission holder was present in the grid when the mission is shown as complete. this eliminates the possibility of one high standing character taking a gang out to a mission site then returning to sit safe in station while his gang completes the mission.no gang completion for courier missions. this way, the only ways to gain missions towards the threshold when you're not the mission holder is to either gang up on kill missions or mining missions, both of which should take a reasonable amount of time to complete and have a reasonable amount of risk involved per mission in comparision to courier missions.once a gang member reaches the threshold a storyline agent of the appropriate faction will contact him to offer him a storyline mission. this works exactly like a standard storyline mission i.e. only the person getting the mission gets the standings increase."
"when is the next meeting?"
"agreedminmatar could use some love right now./supported"
"supported"
"sounds good."
"i believe the next csm meeting with ccp is august 20 something where this will be on of the issues discussed.i'm not entirely sure that's correct though."
"i forgot the little happy button....supported 4 real this time"
"yes"
"please bring back alliance logo submission!"
"thumbs up!"
"i don't really know how to do the votey thumbs up thingey. maybe i haven't trained the right skill?"
"supported!"
"!"
"support!"
"i support fixing this and allowing us to again have logos.i could be biased since burn has no logo :"
"support!"
"i concurr with the sentiments of this post."
"support!"
"supported!"
"supported... ;"
"supported!!"
"support!"
"support!"
"support"
"support"
"/signed"
"support!"
"support"
"signed and expected since long"
"yop"
"supported"
"cookies for hardintotally agree"
"supported"
"support!"
"supported"
"support!"
"supported"
"i am all for this"
"yeah it's pretty ridiculous"
"supported!"
"supported!edit: damn... wrong character -.-\""
"supported!"
"damn right."
"supported"
"."
"supported"
"supported!"
"i support this."
"supported!"
"support!!!!"
"!!"
"i support this idea, sort of like an eft for skills."
"this should have been done years ago.skills should take 1-10 sec per level, any level, any rank, to train on sisi.with this simple change, any player could test any change that ccp made.thier feedback would skyrocket, and their testing potential would rise with it.and how would impact the game: it wouldn't at all. it sisi. it has no direct impact on tq.get it done ccp."
"i think you need to find a balace for it tough.you don't want 1-10 seconds training time as people will just stop playing on the main server then.you could limit it to 2,5 m extra sp or something.... ?it could also be a great tool for people to find out for wich ship they should train as it takes incredibly long and you want to make the right choiceso its a test for both ccp and yourself :edit : ohnoes forgot support"
"/signed"
"agreed. this could be an issue if ccp didn't take simple precautions; like, say, sisi resets to what your character is on tq every dt. that way, no matter what you do, you don't get to keep it from day to day; and you have to start over training what you would like to test from day to day.also, i agree that 1-10 sec is a little extreme. i prolly should have gone with like 1-2 mins.cheers."
"ccp is going to give some lame excuse not to do this but i support it anyway."
"would be a huge gain of time, supported!"
"this makes sense to me something i thought myself might work."
"almost two thousand replies to this thread.will be interesting to see if ccp even notice."
"i support the nano nerf"
"it appears all is not lost! this issue even got a dev response in a different thread! \o/"
"i have no colour handicap, yet i have an absolutely awful time telling which of my icons are glowing green on most backgrounds. that besides, space just feels too damn bright. it may be a bit premature asking for this right now, in light of the fact that celestials are getting revamped in the distant? future in accordance with the direct x 9c upgrades, unless what i've been hearing is just hearsay. edit: thanks to the post above mine for an official statement.i'll mark my support for this, but my biggest hope is that ccp reduces the \"artsy ****\" in the background when they redo the nebulae for trinity gfx."
"supported. my jump clone has 3 of these implants in his head. i had no idea they didn't do jack spit. a refund would be highly desired, and the spaces back so i don't have to unplug and trash my valuable lps."
"i just thought of a wonderfull side effect of this. no more jita local spamming once again, great idea. this is well thought out and has plenty of room for balancing and adds an extra objective for 0.0 warfare."
"i like the idea of generating the intel from another source then the local chat channel."
"great idea, the ability to actually see a balance sheet on a personal project without having all the other crud mixed in would be great"
"oh yes please."
"completely supported, nice idea."
"i suppose this would be easier than moving isk to my alt on the same account."
"tho this might have a db issue realy should not be that hard to fix/make tbh i will support this."
"oh yes! and please more than 7 divisions!"
"o/"
"i support it."
"how exactly would this be any different from macros using an industrial now?if you're that afraid of macros, may i suggest we shut down the entire server? it's the only way to permanenty get rid of them.of course, you lose all legit player as well, but that hardly bothers anyone concerned about macros."
"this post!/support"
"should have the abiliy to scoop/jettison anywhere. this is something freighters can't do, and so gives it a role.capital tractor is a good touch. makes it the hauler of choice for empire mining ops or small-gang 0.0 ops.able to fit a tank/cloak = bad juju, unless its hold is really small sub 50k. if you make a smaller ship that can tank better than a freighter, and cloak, and carry multiple battleships or equivelent, you'll pretty much obsolete freighters. nobody is going to haul more, and be a gank target, when they could haul a little less, and be relatively safe. i'd just ask that you take the economics of a high-sec suicide gank into consideration when you do your design.edit: i too support the notion of a \"black ops\" logistic ship, but i don't think this ship should be it. that ship should be a third t2 industrial to go along with the dst and the blockade runner that should have dst capacity and stealth bomber like bonus to cloaked speed so that it doesn't become an albatross around the black-ops gang's neck. providing a stealthy ship of this size is a little over the top."
"newbies? indeed, as a solo player i still fly my badger ii all the time with a cloaking/ecm/mini tank; cheaper and more fun than the t2 variant - for the same money you could finance a small escort fleet. the additional cargo space isn't outstanding. this!! i'd be happy with a rokh model with a rusty old industrial texture. should be just big enough to carry one packaged battleship natively and punch around the level of a small battlecruiser. this would reflect the actual history of merchant marine ships during wartime.i hate mining but am jealous of the interesting ship selections available to miners. on the other hand i actually like hauling from a roleplaying pov; right now the farther you progress with it, the worse it gets. your risks and costs go way up, while your ships can do less and less. you might as well just sit in station and issue courier contracts."
"maybe just disallow large ships in npc corps. or have it that npc corps tax mineral sales or whatever their specialty is the way player corps typically tax bounties and mission rewards. you work for a big corp in the real world, you get regular pay and benefits in return for which they keep 80% of your productivity. in eve you are secure from war declarations, but your so-called employer lets you make as much money as you want on the side."
"oh i absolutely agree that lo sec should be more profitable than hi-sec, and 0.0 should be more profitable than lo-sec although not by nearly as high a margin. i'm just saying that missioning outside concord protection isn't the instant death sentence that many missioneers assume it to be. in fact the actual process of doing a mission is significantly safer than belt ratting. the risk come from the fact that you're tied to a station. now where 1 pirate hunts 1 missioner, that's a significant risk. where the missioners outnumber the pirates 10:1, it really needn't be; even mission fits >>> pvp fits with a 10:1 numerical advantage."
"not just yes, but hell yes."
"i think this whole thing boils down to a \"carrot\" vs. a \"stick\" approach to getting people to move out to low/no sec.ccp has always, and i hope always will, used the \"carrot\" approach to getting people to move out to low/no sec. this approach is balanced, fair, and lets people feel they have control over their characters and their gaming destiny. which, after all, is one of the major good points of eve.the op, by contrast, wants to use the \"stick\" and force people out to low/no sec if they want to continue with a mission running career beyond level 2s. this approach is extremely limiting, economically dangerous, and forces players to take actions and get involved with play-styles that they may or may not want to do.the op's approach to this perceived problem will be bad for eve in that it will limit player base expansion. there is no way around this fact. people who pay for the game because they like running missions will not like being forced to pvp; and they will quit or not try eve at all in the first place because of it.if the op is so convinced that level 4 missions are so bad, why doesn't he and his goon friends do something about it? jyhadswarm made gs lots of friends , why not a swarm of mission disrupters? this is perfectly within the rules, and lots of people do it. loot flipping, mission critical loot extortion, fleet baiting, etc.; all of these activities are perfectly within the rules and very real dangers that any high level mission runner faces; especially the ones in high sec that you are so on about. also, none of the listed activities automatically cost you your ship, and you can do them to people whether or not they are in a noob-corp.my point is, that if the op, and what is obviously a significant portion of his alliance by the number of people in goon posting to this thread feel there is a problem with level four missions and how profitable they are, they should do something about it in the true spirit of eve; not simply whine about it in the forums.you think that level 4s in high sec are too safe? fine. make them less so. goon has the numbers. ccp has given you the exploitable rule tools to do it. so whats the problem? too lazy i guessso, in summary, for the reasons that i have listed, i offer this thread less than no support. because, no one should be granted a rule change when there is already a perfectly balanced system in place, and because they are too lazy to fix the perceived problem themselves when it is well within their power to do so."
"ok, so let me get this straight:there are two groups of players involved in this discussion.the first group of players has built their characters, correctly matched their own personal skills with those characters, and become good at earning isk through certain activities in high sec.the second group of players has built their characters perhaps incorrectly, mis-matched their own personal skills with those characters, and therefore suck at earning isk through any activities in low/no sec.the second group is angry with the first group and envious of their success. so, the second group demands a system change of all the mechanics of how the first group makes isk; and wants them moved to where they the second group live; in spite of the fact that the second group already has these mechanics available to them where they live. therefore, they just don't want the first group to have access to them at all anymore where the first group lives.uhm, yeah...... no support.just because you suck at how you choose to play the game is no reason to make the game harder less appealing for others.grow a pair. there is tons of isk to be made in low/no sec already. much more than in empire. i make billions profit of isk weekly in low/no sec. solo, i might add. just because you don't know how to do it is no excuse to take it out on others.look around. find opportunities to improve your own playing habits before you put a damper on others."
"the main problem, as i see it, is that if the level 4s were moved to low sec systems, these systems and the few surrounding them to which missioneers may be sent instantly become the new pirate meccas of eve. now that's a boon for pirates, but really unless missions are flipped around so that they are more doable in pvp kit, i seriously doubt you would have many mission runners taking the proposed bait. mission runners are, as a group, extremely risk averse, generally, and they'd simply find something else to do or leave eve. a suggestion i have seen pointed out in the main forums seems more sensible: cap the number of missions that can be run by any account from one dt to the next dt. that caps the \"money generation\" issue in a fairly unintrusive way."
"a large amount of eve players enjoys doing missions in empire. let them have their fun.....sure you have chinese mission running macro metagamming alts that farm the crap out of them.....but most people just want to have fun....altough giving away more iskies in lowsec/0.0 would be great.and to be fair . most people that tick the 'support box' just want to grief them.... if you move all the level 3 and 4 missions to pvp grounds your going to have at least 10 pirates in cov ops probing every single one out and then just get 10 people in bs kill the poor fellow...."
"0.0 is more profitable atm than highseclowsec is a bit more profitable than highsec0.0 is just as safe as highsec, sometime even much safer if u not in a npc corp. in highsec if u get wardec u have much harder to watch if enemies around or if someone probed u and warped in fast ship to u in laggy systems like most of the lvl4 agent empire systems.i live long ago in 0.0 and is very very safe. i can rat the whole day and i need just go to warp between ss or grab pvp ship if enemy comes to the system, which is very rear if u not on a pipe or in station systemif u can get peoples out of npc corp, than the problem is resolved.... just let use lvl4-5 agents if u not in npc corp and done."
"i think the rewards are ok voor high-sec missions, what is wrong is the eve economy at large. problem is the static prices within eve players get for doing something or not, like surviving :d .first of all, the insurance. this mechanism puts a minimum price on ships. for example, if the insurance costs 10m and the payout is 50m then you will never see the ship below 60m on the market. same is true on mission running and npc buying produces goods for a fixed price.a simple solution does not exists. lower one thing, like reward on mission running, means people have less isk to spend which will drop the prices which will trigger a lower income for miners. i think the sole reason for ccp to hire an economist is to evaluate the current situation and come up with a solution.if i think about it, the only real solution is to remove the objects that insert isk into eve and the object that remove isk from eve. but that would mean for example, free skills the skills that can be bought from npc, no more bounties on rats, no more insurance payouts, etc... it would be so dramatic that eve would not be the same anymore. i am curious what ccp is going to do about the current situation..."
"this is the most interesting proposal i read in a while and deserve its own thread suggested title \"small changes to remove most glaring mission abuse\". also don't forget the respawned mission roids, some people farm missions for the decent ore."
"okay, you're an optimist.the biggest difficulty lies not in how you operate your mission but your ship fits. and yes, most pirates are going to get their kills close to 100% of the time. if they don't think they will, they won't engage.jumping mission runners will always be advantage, pirate, just as jumping ratters in no-sec is always advantage raider tactically, not strategically. the only reason that the raiders aren't better off is because of the nbsi polices most null secs run. when a neut or red with a good chance of messing folks up comes into the system the ratters either dock up, pos up, cloak up or gang up, in about that order. they simply refuse combat. that doesn't work in low sec.even so, if the raider scans out someone alone and ratting, that ship will likely die unless it's good or planned as bait. even then the raider will often get away due to the attention of the rats.as long as pvp fits and pve fits are required to be so different to be successful, the op's idea is a poor one. it's just a nerf to high sec and a buff to 0.0 system owners. it won't even help the low sec pirates much unless they start mission running.the idea, as things are, is a non-starter and a poor idea from the 'let's hate the high-sec types' and ccp will never do it as things stand.that said, the idea of putting the higher l missions out toward the borders does make sense from a storyline perspective. not all borders are all lowsec, though. there's no question that lowsec needs a dramatic boost, but this isn't the way to do it. 0.0 probably doesn't need a big boost. i know that i no longer mission run as it can't compare to the isk of 0.0 ratting for isk per hour. i do my grinding out in null sec now. it pays better and it's more interesting."
"point 1 - when 1 pirate pvp fit ship hunts a solo missioner pve fit and probably already ground down somewhat by rats the pirate wins unless he or she is a total moron. and not just most of the time.point 2 - economics. if you solo a l4 in empire and make 10 million isk in pay and bounties which is a bit high for most l4s iirc you make all of that plus what you loot and salvage. if it takes ten of you to do the same run in low sec you each make 1/10th as much. collecting the loot and salvage is harder due to the presence of unfriendlies so it's harder to pick up that additional lucre as well. not impossible, but more difficult i do it in null sec but it's not the same and i don't/can't do it as reliably.so - in order to break even on just the economic basis, you have to make missions worth well over ten times as much. and that's to break even. if you really want people to want to be there, which is what's required for real economic diversification, it would have to be even more.taken out of context, what you say makes sense. put it in the context of the reason most people do this activity, and it makes far more sense to stay in high sec and run l2s without the rewards being many orders of magnitude higher."
"examples: no clear way of telling how plexing efforts are going.missions are way too hard, and do not count towards capturing systems. so no real reward for doing them over normal npc missions.the difference between minor, outposts, majors, uncontested, etc is non-existent, all you need is two ships to take any plex.possible solutions that could refocus are quite obvious:make plex sizes dependent on plexing efforts. minors, then cruiser level, then bc level, then majors, then major uncontested's. if you plex long enough the level of plexes increases.why would the enemy faction reinforce a system with a major plex if the system is no where close to falling. plexing should scale all the way up to the point that you defeat the faction npc's and they have to call in the pod militia as a last defense of the system.make missions, that are hard, stay hard but actually help capture the system significantly. a level four mission in enemy territory, that has strategic importance like the agents say, should do something, not just be a crappy mission.to sum up. make missions count towards system vp's, make plexes have an order to clear up how close to capturing a system is, and all of these things lead up to a last ditch effort by the factions to call in militia to capture/defend the system."
"is this on the table? recent playing around with minmatarr ships have proven arti to still suck. xd"
"some more power for the chat would be nice"
"this is a horrible idea, almost all the commands that have been suggested so can be manipulated to help isk sellers, macro miners, and who knows what else./conv - great lets make it even easier to spam chat channels, by both isk sellers and the general players./evemail - see above./destination - combined with hotkeys to turn on automatic pilot, nice to reduce the actual human interaction required for empire macrominers etc.if any of these were were implemented there would have to be some kind of very careful monitoring to make sure they are not abused in any number of ways."
"you'll find voices on the other side of this argument who know how hard it is to fund war efforts and keep churning out enough capitals and t2 gear to satiate the ship grinder that is 0.0 sov warfare. they'll argue that any hit to 0.0 profitability will seriously hinder the ability of 0.0 alliances to stand on any firm footing compared to losec alliances who enjoy the lack of as much exposure of assets.right now taking moon mining offline requires sieging a pos. if the modules are more vulnerable, there will be more disruptions. more disruptions means less t2 gear and probably some inflation surrounding that t2 supply.less stuff in circulation means less t2 stuff getting chopped up and less pilots who are flying it. over all, less of any resource production, like moon mining, equates to less junk for us to play with. if anything, i'm for much, much increased supply of junk.with the sov tools focusing a bit more on fleet mobility and leaving more opportunities for dividing and zerg rushing a pinned deployment from the main force, i believe we'll see a natural balance to context-creep that would normally accelerate in a bolstered production environment. therefore, if anything, i'd like to see boosted 0.0 productivity accompanying these newer, more effective tools of sov."
"welp.i wouldn't bump it again. if any csm rep was going to reply, they would have by now. doesn't look like we'll be able to get much feedback. 0.0 threads in general haven't seen many responses since kelsin's first thread. kind of a mixed blessing i guess; at least things aren't getting worse."
"i understand the implications of making moon mining more interruptable would break the current way alliances are controlling space. that being said i think that is part of the whole ccp idea...less capital ships....my hope is that your proposal would decrease the #'s of caps in fights. no more 500 man cap blobs floating about.like i pointed out earlier though...keep iskies where they are now and just adjust them later if it becomes an issue. it's not that i'm opposed to changing the isk rate of moon mining...it's just that i want to see the need first."
"gangster"
"well, ccp definitely wouldn't implement a boost to 0.0 income that was unbalanced - this proposal just makes sure to point out that income will definitely be impacted by the vulnerabilities of raiding, and says that as part of that change ccp will have to take a look at base income levels to balance that out. which i think is a very fair request."
"hmmm, sorry - didn't realise about not posting gm mails...a terrible idea? irl the big ships would have pilots flying fighters and salvage missions for you. in eve drone tech replaces the human element for a lot of things - the same way that irl robots have replaced humans in car factories. you still need a human/pod pilot to organise them."
"had them once and they got rid of them. doubt they will be back...ever.slade"
"why did they get rid?"
"horrible? a ship at the cost of drone bandwidth and drone space will have an alternative to tractor and salvager. good, for example, for big pvp battles where people often don't deploy drones. after the battle, if you are the victor, you could use the drones to salvage.to avoid having 2 modules in 1 package, the best option would be medium/heavy hauler drones, moving the wreck toward the ship and small salvage drone, only salvaging the ship and with limited cargo space 1 m3 would be more than sufficent for most ships, if scrapmetal was removed from teh salvage tables."
"they were never deployed. the skill was available for a short period doing one of thw training missions, then it was removed."
"i've seen threads calling for these before... and i think they'd be awesome every time.drones all have a listed cargo capacity, but only miners take advantage of it. it would be great if drones could loot for you after the fight... but having specific drones that salvage for you would be great too.i could be flying a mission domi with 3 tractor/3 salvager... or guns, and an extra wing of salvage drones instead."
"well if that doesn't deserve a thumbs up i don't know what does!"
"and yet they complain that there's no one in low sec for them to hunt. jeez, at least be consistent....but i agree that the guns should be brought in line with today's ships."
"how about a button to save selected messages onto harddrive?"
"agreed.but lets not stop there... lets actually make a proper mail client..."
"even if everything is related to pvp, doesn't mean they can't discuss mining. as mining for ore is one of the primary resources for the pvpers in some way. ammo, moduels, weapons and ships are all built from minerals. so improving that would be a big boost to us miners. as well as the pvpers. the talk about changing loot tables, soverignity and nanos doesn't do much for the nonpvpers, which are the people that pvpers rely upon to keep them going."
"i'm so going to vote for you should you ever run again, sister \o/"
"twenty seven? 27? as in... 6 years over the legal drinking age. as in 9 years over the legal smoking age. as in old enough to vote, old enough to die for their country, old enough to raise a family. and yet... we're treated as children, why? now, as i post this... i can imagine that several if not all of those were censored in some form or fashion.he did a longer list... a bit over 200, that i'm sure would look even more like \"***clown, ****sucker, mongolian cluster ****\" and so on.but tell me... how old are we? how little respect are we being shown... when we can't discuss a c-ckpit of a ship, because it'll get censored.even if someone is swearing... then leave it up to the forum community to deal with. they can easily report the offender, as i can imagine i'll wind up being reported for this before long. or they can simply move on with their lives... because \"colorful metaphors\" are everywhere.please, ccp... treat us a teeny bit more like adults. turn off this ******ed whoops filter."
"yeah i support this. good argument and 100% agree."
"average age aside, kids do play eve, which is rated t for teen, and ccp probably don't want to have an unfiltered forum that would likely resemble places like 4chan given the downward slide they've suffered the last couple years."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i would kill to see ccp work something out with whoever owns hk's ip to add that to the game, boost the sweet jesus out of it, and use it in place of their polaris ships.it would be uberwin for an april 1st joke."
"would very much like to get my hands of a few of the models."
"minmatar please"
"diecast dramiel or rifter"
"yes please."
"i've never got my battlestar put together yet :"
"+1 tbqfh."
"i'd love to have a few of these on my desk .edit: oops. forgot to check box."
"i'd definitely buy it!"
"i support this idea :"
"well, yeah, i'll give you that... ... things come to those who wait? : yeah right."
"kestrel is a bit of an exception because of the double bonus. overall though rockets should be increased in damage, i think the standard launcher could use a slight boost as well, to be honest. overall frigate sized launchers are rather weak..heavy launcher has a faster rof than the standard launcher, go figure?"
"i think all af's should have a minimum of 100 dps, even the tanking ones."
"newsflash: overall all missile system are kinda weak. it's the tradeoff you get for using a weapons system that's:immune to tracking disruptinguses no caphas no tracking to deal withis relatively unaffected by target's speed unless target breaks about 3km/sis completely unaffected by user's speedis fairly long-range compared to most turretsand probably a few more point i'm forgetting.tradeoffs, you do lower dps, you can defendered, missiles can be outrun and they're not instant dps."
"if we are thinking standards as long range and rockets as short range frigate weaponry, talking about \"extremely short range\" is rather funny. especially when we take into consideration that missiles are actually quite damn effective in mind they are the most easy-to-use weapon system. i.e most versatilehmm... there must be some reason why crow is 2-3 times more worth than other ceptors. maybe its the speed? looks, pherhaps?"
"the ships i noticed this on in particular was the heretic and vengeance. it seems the coercer has more damage potential than the heretic."
"yeah.i think something needs to be done. it's a bit messed up at the moment. i have been in fleets forming up, and a corp jumps in and wipes out a couple of the fleet. the rest of us can't do anything or we get concorded.it makes fw less attractive in general, which is a shame, because fw gives people a chance for great fights, without all the bull**** that goes with being in a player alliance."
"at a minimum, i'd like the mechanics looked at as well."
"this issue has been heard by the council and rejected 1-8 as i recall - for the record i was the \"1\". the other csm delegates didn't feel there is an issue with this."
"well, that sucks. so it goes i guess.edit: i'm blind, found the discussion"
"] onwards."
"the more votes, the better.100% support."
"edited because i hadn't seen this:sounds like exactly what eve needs. also, all freighters should self-destruct due an overlooked fundamental design flaw and the manufacturers should pay back the cost to owners as part of an interstellar class action suit. freighters are a lousy reward for the effort that goes into acquiring them."
"you're assuming that low slot uses grid. you stick an rcu in there, and use the extra pg to fit your 2 spare highs with neuts, along with switching the 5th gun the thorax gets for a neut as well. think about it that way and the thorax gets 820 base grid for 5/3/5, and the ashimmu gets 977.5 base grid for 7/3/5. given that a neut uses significantly less pg than a heavy medium gun, it seems about right, even after you consider that pulses use a touch more than blasters. i agree with your overall design objectives for faction ships, and i'd even agree that the blood raider ones need some work - they're all over the place at presentsimilarly, the guristas ones need an overhaul too, though the other three factions are just fine. but on that one specific paired ship comparison, i'm not really convinced."
"ok, this is the only time i will ever say this about any ship......faction cruisers need more fitting room!thats all."
"what's wrong with 'predation'? beating on other players are what eve's non-consensual pvp system is founded on and driven by.go play another game if you don't consent to pvp by logging in.pvp flags? lol.what utter tripe."
"i think this is a fake post, am i right?"
"predation? where's chris hansen when you need him?go ahead and have a seat over there... according to these logs you wanted this carebear to have pvp relations with you.no no, i just wanted to do missions with him really!then why did you send him a link to your warp disruptor?that was just a mistake really!and you brought ecm with you?*pathetic crying* i'm soo sorry, please forgive me!"
"write out what the purpose of the csm is in a thread, and sticky it at the top of the assembly hall. include in that thread:- aspects of the game the csm will/will not look into- a list of what topics have already been covered with links to the relevant meetingsecondly, i'd suggest you review a way to insure that the range of issues raised is more...holistic."
"i like the sticky idea. i'm not convinced on holism, though - a lot of the stuff being brought up at this point, even after the first two batches are completethough it's slowing down are long-standing concerns being brought under the umbrella of the new system to address those concerns. i agree, a more holistic viewpoint of issues would be good, and it's something i'd like to see come from the next iteration of the csm, but i'm not surprised it hasn't really come from the inaugural council. there have been some examples of people trying to address multiple issues at once - the one that comes to mind is the group of recent threads on 0.0 changes, attempting to address pos overuse, fleet lag, and insufficient detail/strategic depth in 0.0 systems all at once, but most of them are just simple one-off issues. for example, holism in an approach to the user interface would be nice, but people are just going to bring forward threads about the one issue that's bugging them this week. you generally have to find somebody passionate about an entire set of issues, who is willing to bring it forward as a package deal, because the csm can't just turn a thread on basket-weaving into a submission about the role of wicker in the pre-modern economy. there have been some examples of that approach as well - bane's failed attempts to address the role of carriers, dierdra's successful attempts to overhaul highsec pvp options, and the like - but overall, there's only so much the csm can do. i have a couple threads brewing about issues i find important, though they're not fit to be posted yet, and i'm sure there are some waiting in the wings from others, but the bulk of what lands at the csm's feet is going to be disjointed, highly reductionistic, and not really get anything anywhere in the long run. just the nature of the mechanisms used, and this is why we keep a council around, to sort out the dreck before ccp has to look at it."
"i already pay for forum posting rights and i pay in hard currency; its called my monthly subscription fee.i have lots of isk... does that mean i get to post as much trash as i like whereas poor players with great ideas but no isk won't post their great ideas?some of the worst trolls on this forum are old players... presumably they have more than enough isk to troll as much as they like.your suggestion doesn't solve anything but creates more problems.a better idea is to have the existing rules enforced by ccp on a more consistent basis like they promised to do when they axed the volunteer moderators and brought in paid moderators...lol."
"an interesting proposal, but a really bad one. you'd either set it high enough that newbies can't post, or low enough that vets don't care. and in either case, i don't like limiting your ability to contribute to the useful parts of the forum just because your character is broke."
"i just thought of a wonderfull side effect of this. no more jita local spamming once again, great idea. this is well thought out and has plenty of room for balancing and adds an extra objective for 0.0 warfare."
"i like the idea of generating the intel from another source then the local chat channel."
"so you can afford to train all those skills for a nidhoggur, spend all the time and money building it, and then can't afford to have some people coordinate to use remote sensor boosters on you?"
"that's for the naglfar, not nidhoggur."
"/signedwant to make us train longer than anyone else? fine, atleast give us some benefit."
"support"
"/supported!"
"lets get it on!"
"still waiting for ours!make it so!"
"/signed"
"o/ hardin good idea on the topic and supported.ive read that some ppl have been waiting for up to 7 months for their logo... wow."
"support!"
"support"
"thumb up!"
"it needs fixing."
"something is borked somewhere with them."
"how has this not been supported yet by a csm?citadel torps need more hp and they need to move faster not a lot, but 90 seconds to go 60km is simply not acceptable."
"very nice idea. would save a lot of time and thus a small fee for doing it is acceptable as long as the time gain and the isk investment are balanced."
"good idea."
"support."
"though i enjoy taking my time to fit a new ship :p it is a good idea."
"yo"
"i liked diamond's idea of taking damage once a ship goes past a certain speed, so long as the speed caps are reasonable and still give the option of speed tanking.i loath the day in eve where my only option is to throw plates or extenders on my ship and hope our blob is bigger than the hostiles."
"this \"- imagine, how many chinese farmers would die in the first week :\" lol.... ccp are against selling isk online anyway.and omfg this is an awesome and well thought out idea.im getting tingles thinking about it :a lone pilot spends his day off in a dead end 0.1 system without being hassled then all of a sudden a rapier uncloaks next to him... imagine the shock :d its how it f****** should be.oh im mining at a belt deep deep in no mans land but its ok i will know soon as someone enters the same solar system i.e. millions and millions of kilometers wide as me."
"anyone who disagrees with making this happen is just soft and probobly cries when they get ganked."
"i like this idea, i think would bring a whole knew level to compation for control of a system and because of that...thumbs up!"
"its certainly worth pushing in front of ccp to see what they think imo"
"nano fits r too strong.missile ships r too poor."
"nerf it! about time!"
"300 k would be a bit above the top indeed. i imagine something in the ballpark of 100 k would be adequate if it would have reasonable agility advantage over regular freighter."
"it seems the thread is divided roughly into those who want a slightly bigger industrial ship and those who want a slightly bigger industrial ship will all the tractor bells and jump whistles attached.i propose a new class: heavy industrialits t1 incarnation would just be a miniature freighter with enough cargo space to hold a couple of general freight containers.it would then have two t2 options: deep space logistics or jumpbridge transportdeep space logistics would allow interaction with cans, mounting of capital tractor beams and other equipment e.g. for tanking. the trade-off being that the additional power grid and cpu requirements means that cargo capacity is cut by perhaps half.jumpbridge transport would be analogous to an airbridge and - as the name suggests - would install a jump drive into the ship to allow it to pass through blockades. again, cargo space would be halved to account for the increased systems requirement.skill-wise, there's no reason why freighters should have anything to do with this. heavy industrial could or should be a skill dependent on industrial, perhaps requiring industrial 4 but advanced spaceship command 1.the t1 variant is just a big ship so we should be forgiving when it comes to skills but the t2 variants should require quite a few level fives besides heavy industrial 5 obviously."
"i propose 2 teirs. tier 1 has maybe 5km3 cargo and enough ship maintenance to haul any rigged sub cap ship. because moving a rigged ship around in empire if you can't fly it is near impossible.teir 2 has bonus to fitting cap tractor beam and 1 high slot. you can cloak or tractor not both. give it 4-5 lows and a base of 30km3 or 2 lows and a base of 80km3 and say cargo rigs can't work on it. enough mids for about 200k ehp. might be too much but should take prolly 2-3 bs to gank in highsec.they should be able to work with cans because otherwise it is still a jump from a hauler to 1.5 bil rorq which takes more isk in skillbooks to train than a freighter as well.edit and both should be teir 1 to help with insurance. losing that much cargo is already enough hurt."
"this is a myth. empire is more profitable than lowsec and 0.0 period. in empire you dont have to spend your time defending your space, you dont have to safe up or cloak every time a hostile gang enters the system, you have concord to avenge your death. you dont have to pay anyone rent, or a pirate isk to have him leave you alone. you dont have to organize defense to deal with pirates that you are unwilling to pay. if you are in an npc corp you pay no taxes on your ratting bounties. time spent not gaining isk is lost isk. this is called oppertunity cost. the profit minus the cost of playing the 0.0 game currently makes pveing in highsec a much better choice for pve gameplay and general iskmaking. ideally i want a system where it is profitable for pve players to pay pvp players isk to defend them while they rat/mission in 0.0 or lowsec. or if they so choose, take the risk of ratting solo for even greater gain."
"there is always the solution of buffing the income from 0.0, carebears get to keep their lvl 4 missions and the people in 0.0 can make isk. i rat in a t2 fit ishtar and can only get about 15mil an hour, and that with a full set of bs rats and noone else in system. sadly to do that i can't salvage or loot, and the salvage from a serpentis rat isnt particually good to anyway so its not a huge loss.theres so little decent 0.0 space its unreal, buffing it a fair amount will decrease the rewards in high sec and hopefully sort out the risk vs reward. and as i said the carebears keep their lvl 4 missions and don't need to whine about losing their risk free income."
"but an ishtar has two extra high slots that it can't put guns on. why is it too hard to put a salvager and tractor beam in those slots?"
"so 0.0 missions are roughly balanced with 0.0 ratting, but only 10% as good as hi-sec missions.by your own logic, hi-sec missions are enormously overprofitable. qed.and i agree, although not perhaps with the \"10x\" factor. hi-sec l4s are not only more profitable due to essentially no overhead than 0.0 pve, they're also far more profitable than any other empire pve. trading, invention, etc are fine, that's a pvp activity. the rewards from empire mining and exploration are horrible in comparison, and empire mining leaves the miner subject to various kinds of harassment and risk.the numbers tell the story: far more people mission that undertake any other kind of pve. they don't necessarily do this because they're \"risk averse\", but because it's the most profitable risk:reward ratio. i do it myself, and i have no objection to risk. sure, the best 0.0 ratting beats missioning, but it's risky, takes considerable effort to obtain and retain, is a limited resource, and is highly subject to interruption. over time, there is simply nothing to touch hi-sec missioning.they're flat out imbalanced, against hi-sec, lo-sec and 0.0, and with the upcoming hi-sec change, the already minimal level of risk will be reduced even further. fine, now that the maths of ganking means that i can safely increase the value of my cnr fit, i can improve my tank, train up fofs, and really afk-mission my wallet level way up."
"don't put words in my mouth malcanis, that's beneath you. i neither said, nor implied that.actually, i would have to say that high sec missions as they are, are probably about right - although it's quite variable depending on your skill level.for instance, i can solo l4s in my dominix. the very first one i ever soloed was a blockade. i did it successfully and didn't even lose a drone. however it took about six hours to complete solo and at my skill level it's still somewhat dangerous. remember, not even 10 million sps and those aren't all combat by any means although a lot of them are.so for me, it's probably balanced because it takes so long. for someone with better skills and more isk for a much more tuned mission ship it's another story.all of which is a long way of saying 'it depends'. i didn't say that. in fact i thought i was being clear that the 0.0 ratting i do is considerably more profitable, at least in my particular milieu. others mileage may vary. i have exchanged comments with boatloads of people that don't loot or salvage their missions. if i don't they're entirely too little isk for the time. the variance in performance is very high.sorry, no. you're making a very large leap of assumption there as to why there are so many missioners and it being all about isk. to be sure you're right for some missioners but there are those who do it for many other reasons. for some it's just that they don't enjoy the combat pvp elements of eve. from my limited experience i can't say as i blame them. you're not stating a fact, you're making an assumption. you may be right. you may also be wrong. my own personal experience flies entirely in the face of your position. i can cj back to my missioning bb anytime, but i seldom do. it pays less and is less fun - but the key argument here is that it pays less. at least for someone with my play situation and style.to be honest, while finding the right 'situation' is harder i find it much less risky, more profitable and i've rarely been interrupted in our new space. for me, it's superior to high missioning in every way. it pays more, it's less risky and it's both more interesting and fun.however, others milage may vary. but from where i sit, your assumptions are wrong. whether that's a generalized reality or a personalized one i haven't the data to say. i would agree that low sec is badly out of whack. i believe that high sec and null sec both could use a lot of tuning.see my other post for my thoughts on how i think high sec missioning might be improved. here's the link to it:"
"i seriously doubt your \"only 10% more profitable\" as people claim that 0.1 missions so no pirate implants from lp give out 60 millions hours top runners probably, the same people that will get mroe than 30 milions hour in high sec.even disregarding that, the simple fact that in 0.1 you get roughly x2 the lp of the same mission in high sec mean about 6 extra millions for each mission, so 9-12 extra millions each hour and then there is the chance for better spawns in the variable spawns missions, with the possibility of a true faction spawn. i will test 0.0 missions rewards as i am moving a 4 months character in npc pirate land to do missions. he is up to level 3 missions, i am very curious to see what will be his per hour return. i highly doubt it will be only a 10% more than high sec missions of the same level."
"you forget to calculate interruptions, shiplosses during missionsdue to pvp, time spent defending the area with additional shiplosses, time spent hauling your stuff to better markets etc. there might be bigger spikes in income in 0.0, but in general over time its not impressive."
"so far my return ratting in 0.0 have been well above my return in level 4 missions. both when i was in wicked creek and now. losses have always been because i was distracted or if i wanted to engage the enemy."
"with regards to fw missions, i know very little about them. however, they really should tie into militia success somehow, if they don't already. the simple way to do this would be to count them toward vps in a way similar to complexes. perhaps they should have somewhat less effect, since they carry the advantage of being in a specific, pre-known location.as an alternative, missions could have an indirect benefit to the militia completing them. for example, it might shift one or more 'undiscovered' complexes from friendly-controlled systems to enemy-controlled systems. or it might reveal the location of one or more as-yet undiscovered enemy complexes. or something similar."
"yes, you can capture an hostile unrestricted plex with an inty for the aggro and a cruiser to shoot the frigs, but then you're bound to get stomped really quickly.all in all, i don't think that it's a serious issue.i suggest this: - a fixed number of plexes per faction per constellation instead of the current system. - less vp for capping a plex in a system with many other open plexes. this way, the current balance can be retained while eliminating the insanity of having to defend plexes in uncontested systems just to have them respawn in another uncontested system instead of the last enemy system in the constellation."
"i spent about 2 weeks in and out trying to cap the semou constellation in coordination with our militia's other fc's, after roushzar was captured, no matter what we did we couldn't cap a system. would greatly appreciate a clearer approach and some form to measure progress"
"i support what is discussed in this thread and also would like that ccp would clear up the system capturing mechanism a lot."
"i support the ideas in the op.having a clearer idea of how plexing stands in various systems would be very nice. if you warp in and see a major plex up it would be great to know 'hey, this system is not far off flipping, lets focus our attack/defense here for the time being and see if we can't get/stop a flip'.i think the current plexing system with random spawns of random size is unneccesarily complicated and a little cumbersome."
"there definitely needs to be more feedback on how close a system is to flipping, and i agree with the other points also. however i'd also like to add that the fw 'end game' of the system actually flipping is just so incredibly dull at the moment.currently, when a system goes vulnerable a huge enemy fleet captures the control bunker within about 5-10 minutes and that's it. instead there needs to be a system vulnerability sub-game, perhaps spread over a 24-48 hour period, where each side has a chance to form a large fleet, perhaps call in a few capital ships, and have some kind of epic final battle over the control bunker to decide whether the invaders get to take the system or not.anything that encourages large fleet confrontations is good for fw in my humble opinion."
"just fyi roushzar was cap'd using around 5-8 ships."
"i totally agree, mechanics are far too cheesy... the spread of systems also makes it very hard to find those 3-5 man frigate fights we all enjoyed so much at the beginning of fw.time for ccp to get tweaking, and not let fw die..."
"/signed"
"since the hp boost the \"high\" alpha of artillery has become... well.. rather low."
"dps tempest whit 2 gyros ii, 6 1400s ii whit tremor = 317dps apoc whit 2 heatsink ii whit 8 megabeam ii whit aurora = 331 now what where you saying about 1400s ?"
"artillerry in general need a fix."
"don<U+FFFD>t forget reloading which drops that to 289 at best if you manage to reactivate your guns always right after reload finishes. also, you have less effective range."
"large artillery definitely needs some help."
"and that even in the best of scenarios, at least one of your 6 guns will always miss due to the **** tracking. that \"317dps\" is fast becoming sq.rt of 317dps in many real fights...."
"/signed"
"why do you think the minmatar ew are target painters which enhance tracking? the whole minmatar support lineup is a big tracking machine, with bonuses to tracking links, tp and to a lesser degree webs. tp also greatly help for close range engagement with autocannons. falloff fighting is not opportune in all circumstances, you know.why is it so problematic that the minmatar race must be able to slug it out at 180 km with ships clearly designed to operate at those ranges? the tempest doesn't have to, it is not its role.oveur said it all paraphrased: \"simplistic 1vs1 or 50vs50 for that matter with equivalent setups, skills and at optimal ranges do not tell the whole story. how would you fit and act to utilize alpha strike?\"the answer cannot be \"i go to the forums and whine for more damage.\"1400mm have dps superior to other weapons as long as the magazine holds. that must be enough. accommodate.and while we're at it: lag will nor should ever have an effect on game balance.not supported."
"all they need to do is fix the search function and a bit of reshuffling."
"absolutely, we need a forum to discuss 3rd-party tool development. please don't nerf techlab."
"dont nerf the techlab"
"save the tech lab!"
"tech lab ftw!"
"please save techlab!"
"with this i might and many other think about moving to 0.0. and also it makes a lot more sence than these moon based poses to deside who is in control."
"more options for drones :"
"deathsyphon looks around and sees all the people in support are on our alliances kb. low sec already needs a boost sooooo yeahhh no.also i'm pretty sure sentry guns have seen some changes since 2004."
"yes....fights at belts: yes there are many fights at belts, due to the rubbish roids and piddly frigate npc bounties. fights at station: yes, there are many fights at stations, where people can tank and dock whenever they wantfights at pos - yes lets fight at a pos- where there are guns, neut batterys, jams batteries, and a convienient shield for the defender to sit afk in.fights at etc: there is no etc. the only place to get a target with any degree of regularity is at a gate.the sentry guns in their present state:already encourage blobbing to help tanking... q:\"you guys are big bullies why you not 1v1 me\"a:because previous carebear whines lead to sentry guns being set up, then another whine lead to them being indestructable. as such a gang is neccesary to take out a targetprevent 50% of ships and fittings being used by the outlaws. no intys to tackle, no close jammers, no nano fits, heavy tanks mandatory, remote reps advisory.this thread is supported by a few bears who may have been into low sec once or twice and got ganked and have no experience of being an outlaw.skunk"
"no - there will just be more blobs.being a pirate will therefor require being in big ass blobs.another update to increase fleet sizes.fail."
"also there are enough penalties for being an outlaw as it is.like you cant fire on ppl without sentry agression but they can fire on you... and then your friend cant help without taking sentry fire etc etc etc.but its good like that because if it was great being a pirate then everyone would be then it would suk so meh."
"epicly, noplease visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"seems reasonable, sentry drone fire is pretty feeble atm."
"i'm in support of sent messages being saved on your own hard drive if you like with some sort of option box, but i don't support an in game sent mail box, i want a faster eve server not a slower one."
"plz read whole post before commenting, as not to miss an argument i may have already addressed..intro:well apparently theres already a pos topic up but the link in steels index by topic sticky is just a link to her own sticky somehow..so time for a new one.theres a discussion in the features/ideas forum [3rd edit: the link to said discussion is below]:"
"i agree on your statement that pos warfare sucks . i've bin sitting at a pos for about 4-8 hours a day the past days .... wich i could have spend doing small gang warfare .... but i don't like the new neighbours so i just sit at that pos making sure there are no new neighbours...but your solution makes no sense. do you know how much effort it takes to make an outpost ? i can tell you that i'd rather sit at the pos then having to make 3 outposts in every f***ing system ...."
"while i will agree pos warfare / sov warfare sucks imo.i cant really agree with your suggestion...so basically alliances will spam every moon and you have to kill every pos before you can do anything there ?sounds familiar..."
"ahh i must have comeabout the wrong way,see that was just off the top of my head, didnt really think it through, it wasnt exactly a serious proposal, it was more of an example as to if i can think of anything random now, whhy the hell havnt ccp done anything after ages and ages?edit: i have edited the post to better explain what i mean.."
"low sec is calling, i think you should answer. some of us enjoy the pos game. if you can't take the heat, stay in npc 0.0 space with the rest of the bottom feeders."
"you enjoy the benefits of pos ?the income, the security they provide. who doesnt.have you ever actually sieged regions ? have you had to kill 100s of pos just to be able to even dream of capping a stn ? getting up for alarm clock ops because thats when the towers come out ? spending hours on end repping shields and mods ?if that is fun for you, fair play. your in the minority.currently the system offers a lot of protection. if you can get some pos setup, claim sov etc. you pretty much have a safe haven. unless someone want to lay siege, and spend the time and money taking it out.its not like the old days where you could come home and the stn has been capped."
"the pos game isnt really terrible except for one thing. it is terribly time consuming when it probably could stand to go a fair bit faster. i would propose reducing module total hp on pos's and slightly reduce pos shield hp. reducing module hp on pos's means less time incapping guns, and the rep squad can repair them all back up in a faster period of time lowering this mundane task. defenders already have the advantage with stront timing, reducing module hp on a pos will have no effect on the outcome of a particular battle if the defenders show up to defend. also for eve's sake lower the hp of station services 10x. small gangs should be able to take them out in a timely fasion and small repair gangs should be able to repair them in a timely fasion. sarcasm warning:i know lets encourage small gang warefare by requiring large fleets to take down defenseless structures in a reasonable amount of time, then require the defenders to sit there repairing it for an hour or two after the attackers leave out of boredom."
"this issue seems to be growing cold, so i'd like to kick it again.to summarize events up to now, back in the first csm meeting this issue was raised, and ccps response was that it was impossible or at least difficult to allow alliances as a whole to participate. they also said that it would be very easy to allow individual corps to join militias while still remaining in an alliance.i'm extremely disappointed that this has not been followed up on. it really is silly that dedicated rp alliances, especially, are barred from participating unless they disband the alliance, and this simple change would alleviate the issue. if necessary, the standings requirement could be raised to protect fw from large-scale interference, or there could be a higher requirement for corps that are in alliances.please put more emphasis on this. i understand that there are many 'more critical' things to address, but this is an easy change according to ccp that would benefit a great number of people for whom the events of fw are important.thank you."
"supported. my reason though is that by allowing alliances in to faction warfare might mean longstanding nap's will be broken resulting in more wars and changes in 0.0"
"many rp alliances have been left out of something they have wanted for a long time, they shoudlnt have to divide or break up communitys just for something like this let them join"
"this makes me angry. i paid way too damn much for a for mining lasers if they were selling pickaxes cheap. also the medium heavy mining drones has been sent to be looked at. a broad sweeping change to all industry is being looked into. a new mini-freighter for the poor amongst us. all they need to do is give 1.0 terrible arkonor and 0.0 super veld and i will be happyedit a mining ship focused on drones would be awesome. i love my little bees"
"this^"
"giving the exequoror a +10-20% level boost to mining drone yield would seem to fill this role, as well as giving the gallante a mining cruiser."
"yes, yes you are."
"vexor special ability: 5% bonus to medium hybrid turret damage per level and 10% bonus to drone hitpoints, damage and mining yield per skill level.according to eft with drone rigs yes i do realize rigs on a cruiser it outmines every other cruiser size ship i tried including the osprey which is the best unrigged that i could come up with. i was talking about barge but hell i would cross train gallente bs if the dominix got that bonus snuck in somewhere too."
"well i dont think that missions should be the primary source of income for everyone in 0.0. in low sec its easy to find agents, and if needed ccp can easily add more. that is a large part of the issue i talked about. technically it doesnt matter if we nerf high sec or increase the rewards in 0.0. but by leaving high sec as it is and greatly increasing rewards in low sec/0.0 we increase the flow of isk into the game, something that isnt necessarily so good for the game. besides that if you are a hardcore pve mission runner you use a small fraction of ships compared to a pvp'er in 0.0. why do you need all that isk, when you are supposedly only playing to have fun doing missions.maybe you didnt notice where i said pr hour so that there would be a flow of available missions into one agent, but that agent cant support a limitless number of missionrunners. there isnt any real difference to boosting lowsec/0.0 and nerfing highsec. one just brings a lot more isk into the game.no teamwork isnt required but should be rewarded, not punished as it is today. if you just want to chat in a noob channel why do you care if highsec missions are nerfed?"
"my post was not directly targeting your original post esmenet.that being said, teamwork is rewarded in eve just fine. you may not think so but my isk per hour goes up greatly when missioning in teams instead of alone. in fact since i don't run a loot/salvage alt my best friend greatly benefits from teamwork especially when there is another person running missions with me to kill the npc's while he cleans up behind us.as i have said before i agree that basic loot should be removed and i also agree with the idea of making npc's less numerous and more difficult to subdue thereby reducing the amount of isk generated by loot but not isk generated by bounty. just because a few groups out there maximize their profits in empire space by blitzing missions doesn't mean that the majority do and in fact not a single person in my corp uses a raven/navy raven for mission running because we all pretty much hate missiles. i for instance use a rohk with 8 rails, not exactly an optimal mission runner but i like it and thats what matters. so you would nerf the vast majority of players to stop farmers who would simply focus their efforts elsewhere and continue to generate large amounts of isk because thats what they choose to do. everyone keeps talking about isk faucets but the fact remains that something has to inject isk in order for the system to exist. if you take out all the isk faucets then you eliminate the amount of isk available to the player base and actually start to diminish that isk rapidly due to things like buying something and then selling it for a loss later.yes there is a vast amount of isk being poured into the game but there is isk being poured back out too. my friend is about the worst shopper i have ever seen and probably blows half his income buying things and selling them at a loss and gets more domi's blown up in missions than anyone i have ever seen. i myself don't always run missions and have lost my fair share of ships including two rohks recently amongst a small armada of rifters and blackbirds. so again their is a group out there that blitzes missions all day long and generates a massive amount of income with zero losses but not all and without a good study i think you will find that most mission runners don't run more than a hand full of missions and don't account for the huge isk faucet that they can be if abused.so yes i would support a limit to the number of missions you could run with an agent but not limiting it to 1 in high sec per agent because that simply makes it tedious to play casually. 3-5 would be ideal in my opinion but i would still rather see missions in .0 and low sec be brought up to financial par with missions in high sec in regards to how much a high sec belt rat earns you compared to a low sec belt rat. then add many more mission running outlets because the existing ones would become the focus of a lot of attention and unless your in good with the pirate factions there are not a lot of them to work for so the blob warfare would just center around mission hubs making them virtually useless unless it was completely captured and secured and then it would be farmed mercilessly and be much worse than it is now.i don't really see your solution as resolving any problems but simply redirecting them elsewhere which isn't a solution at all. you claim that missions are risk free when they are not, they might be low risk but not risk free. high sec mining is only riskier than mission running because of the efforts to stop macro mining and has little to do with competing for resources.a miner can focus and gear completely towards mining and compete very well with a single mission runner in high sec who is focused on doing the same. they make even more when working in concert with others to speed the process along so teamwork is rewarded. others will abuse the system by blitzing or macro mining but thats not the fault of all but a minority you will never be rid of."
"i agree that it is pretty ridiculous, especially when thinks like the german guy with a moustache who invaded poland are censored, but not ****."
"my pen is huge"
"i support this cause i have a big pen like raymond."
"a bloody filter in general settings.[ ] check here to censor vulgaritywhich would be ticked by default.and that's all. i couldn't agree more, it's an adult game, lets start acting like it. ****ing supported!"
"i support this and would also like a system and agent named after him, with a bust of his c*** in jita please."
"why exactly is swearing worse for kids than it is for adults? i don't understand this. how do swear words suddenly become worse when kids are using them?anyway, supported"
"/signedseriously, why are words like skyscr-a-p-er and c-o-c-kpit censored?"
"the forum censor is ****"
"i know i am not the only one out there that has been finding more and more people using missions as safe spots in low sec.. 0.4 - 0.1i feel that the saftey a mission gives you in low sec from probes is a joke to the point where i have even heard of carriers hiding in missions to avoid being probed out quickly... it took my m8 15 minutes with max skills to probe out a carrier hiding in a missionadded on top of this is people who are doing missions for the mission in low sec.. these offer better rewards than high sec missions yet dont offer little differance in risk ... as it is oftern impossiable to probe them out before they can finish/loot and even salvage their mission...i feel something need to be done to make either ship probes better at finding ships in missions or having a system where the lower the sec of the system the easier it is to probe out a ship in a mission to the point where a 0.0 mission is no different from a normal safespot this would make probing a usefull skill for pvp and will even out the benfits / risk of low sec missions-- chapters."
"lol agreed.its kind of like winning the lottery.ccp are carebears :d here it comes <.< >.>*edit*<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< i give myself a thumbs up"
"chapters makes a good point, something needs to be done before probing becomes useless as everyone is hiding in missions."
"probing missions is trivial."
"that may be so but i agree with chapters, probing mission runners is really like hitting the jackpot at a casino. you could spend an hour trying to probe out a mission running raven and not find it. however you can get lucky and probe out a frig in your first hit. there is no consistancy its just too uneven.probing for pvp needs to be looked at to make it more equal for the pvp side of eve as the current system is too heavy in the favour of mission runners."
"capital ships hiding in mission deadspaces? am i missing something here? are capital ships allowed through deadspace gates now?and are you suggesting that doing missions in low sec is no more of a risk than doing missions in high sec?"
"excuse me? the rewards given by lowsec missions are laughable compared to the increased risk, and 15 minutes to probe someone down in a mission is nothing given the fact that missions take a long time of sitting in one spot.if you drop 20 au probes across the system, don't scan for drones, etc...then yeah. if you scan for probes, use strong scan-strength probes exploration probes are a guaranteed hit if you use them right then it's trivial."
"get better skills. the deadspace effect of the mission work only after the acceleration gate. and carriers can't use acceleration gates. so either he had very high sensor strength or you have very low skills."
"would you like cheese with your wine?for crying out loud... your throwing a fit about a carrier hiding in a safe spot?the same thing can be accomplished by a shuttle flying off into some unknown region for an hour and dropping a bookmark.you can't stop this.... its utter insanity to even try.it's called tactics.... like the guy said.. get better at it.i sure as heck wouldn't allow an asset to be plainly in sight when its potentially exposed to a threat.using missions just happens to be quicker than running on your own power for a longer period of time./thumbs downps: no offense of course.. but lets be rational about this."
"wts reading comprehension skillbook.edit: in response to the below comment: \"so's your mum!\" edit#2: seems i need to put [/sarcasm] tags in to avoid confusion..."
"wow... thats real mature."
"i'll take one of each please. i'll add a room to my house if i must."
"i've noticed an increasing number of attacks and traffic issues when leaving busy stations.since in reality your not using the multiple if they are graphically present entry/exits on a station... why not just have a random exit point or more than one exit point that is \"randomly\" chosen for you when you leave a station to prevent \"station\" camping and or traffic jams.i've been on the freeway during rush hour but this is ridiculous!ok back to seriousness... any comments?"
"random undock points would have been a far better solution to this problem than the 15degree solution that ccp put in a few months back"
"the mastodon has, by a large margin, the lowest capacity of the deep space transports. but, the only real problem is that 30k is something of a magic number for cargo space for reasons the op mentioned. the mastodon simply doesn't fit in its class. a tiny bump in cargo capacity to bring it over 30k brings it in-line with the other deep space transports.the fact that an t1 industrialthe itty v can so easily hold more cargo than a t2 transport is pretty screwed up on its own.there's probably only five or six people in eve who fly a mastodon, so sadly this post/thread is probably a complete waste of time."
"since electronic warfare modules are not very viable in effectiveness on non specialized e-war ships anymore, it has removed a large role from new players wanting to get into pvp sending them into weeks or months of extra training to get these sort of ships and placing them only in the role of a tackler in most engagements.i suggest a restrengthening or balance of ecm jammers and also eccm modules which would give more options to new players, small gangs, and a better chance at fighting other forms of electronic warfare.i do not think they should be as strong as specialized ships. however in their current form it is exceedingly rare or non-existent to see this stuff fit on non specialized craft and game play has become slightly more static in variables."
"i'd rather buff eccm than nerf ecm."
"there are t1 frigates and cruisers with specialized ew platforms. a new player can get an ew boat on the first day."
"hey all i just had this thought on a way to make rr gangs a little more balanced. why not make cap transfers, remote armor reps, and shield transporters need a hardpoint of their own just like missiles or turrets? several ships could have at least one allowing for at least some rr potential, but not a massive spider tank. mind you this isn't a huge theory i've though through as the idea popped into my head about 5 minutes ago, so go easy thoughts and comments are welcome."
"why do you think that rr gangs need balancing ? in what way do you think they are unbalanced?"
"rr gangs are not unbalanced"
"remote rep gangs are fine, they require a lot of coordination and experience to pull off, they only work up to a limited size and a competent enemy fc can alter targets rapidly enough to help negate its advantages."
"remote reps put a limit on gang size too. you can only pack so many ships into a 4km radius sphere. ~7.5km optimal on large remote reps"
"alright i know there are other posts about low sec, i have read some of them, but unlike the ones that i saw that turn into a bunch of people going back and forth on ideas. this one is a simple yes ccp i think that something should be done with low sec to improve it. or no ccp low sec is fine leave it alone. if you think yes you support if you so not well... figure it out."
"it's a nice idea but your thread is too vague. those who vote \"no\" and so want low-sec to remain static are both in the minority and in for some disappointment; eve is going to change in some form."
"i understand what youre saying.ive always thought there needs to be something done about low sec... but what exactly? that is the question. i would love any major change to it as i spend 99% of my eve time there. so it would be interesting to watch it change anyway. atleast ccp are constantly developing... as far as i know the only online game that is really.fw was a start anyway."
"what he said.you can imagine the meeting:csm: the players think that something should be done about low sec.ccp: ok, what did you have in mind?csm: that wasn't part of the proposal we are supporting.ccp:"
"rockets are brokena system which never hits the target and does 2 less than a blaster, 3 times less than a lazerbut not only rockets, all missiles need rebalance"
"[edit:] oh dear, i read the topic and posted my support instnantly. thats bad news.-----------------------------------------sounds like a good solution to me"
"i endorse this product."
"on shc we had a discussion about the infamous csm mailing list, which has been requested to be made completely public. i won't argue again why i don't think it should be made public, but i would like to discuss how we can streamline it in order to make itat least it's roles public.right now, the csm uses the mailing list for mainlyin order:1. exchanging submission templates2. discussing the next agenda3. any ccp communication at any time.4. general chatvery little actuallythese things could be become transparent by ccp giving us the tools to do so. and it won't just benefit transparency, but also effectivity.in order to streamline the submission templates, a wiki, as previously requested, is very much needed. it will promote collaboration inside the csm, transparency and discussion. it's a win-win situation.a csm-only forum is also dearly needed. due to the nature of the assembly hall, it does by no means promote discussion, due to the massive amounts of \"support threads\", in which any attempt at discussion drowns. while that couldand should!!!! be addressed by allowing people to vote without posting. but allowing for csm to discuss in an asynchronous manner would promote more discussion around key issues being raised. arithron has repeatedly pointed out that there is a lack of communication on issues. and rightfully so. right now, most discussion happen during the actual meetings, which is a bad use of time in many aspects. if all discussion happen during the week, trough a forummailing list is bad for that, it would possibly allow the csm to actually work together on getting certain issues, which otherwise gets voted down now due to their weakness, would get trough.this has to be addressed somehow. so to sum up:1. a wikipediaread-only for the public should be available for the council in order increase the collaboration. 2. a csm-only forum should be available in order to promote discussion inside the csm.3. it should be possible to support a topic in the assembly hall without having to post in the thread."
"i agree. and we brought this up in iceland and we're still waiting on it -_-"
"exactly. but a bit of lobbying doesnt hurt, eh?"
"actually, you already have such a facility- the jita park speakers forum. exactly what it was intended for- you present your ideas/issues, just like everyone else afterall, just because you are on the csm doesn't mean you have to present all the ideas, or that your ideas are any good, they are discussed, you interact with players and come to a consensus and a sensible issue to post in the assembly hall. after 7 days, if the required amount of support or if a csm member supports it, it goes to a csm meeting.what happens at the moment is that most ideas/issues bypass the jita forum entirely, so it's little wonder that a thread has supports in it all the time!what is really needed is not a forum limited to csm or the like as these are just tools that can be ignored as mailing lists etc, but a weekly issue discussion meeting by the csm- not a voting meeting, but a discussion and brainstorm on the popular issues from the assembly hall forum. not to much to ask really....take care,arithron"
"well, i see your point. but the problem is that very few actually read this forum, leave alone posting here. a formal forum for it would be much better i think."
"very few read it? csm members or players?if very few read it now, its probably due to the fact that issues and ideas are all put on assembly hall. i fail to see how your arguement holds up- no one reads a forum designed to discuss ideas and issues, but we need a forum to discuss ideas and issues...take care,arithron"
"my point is, as i stated, that there needs to be a formal forum for it. be it the jita speakers corner or forum y, there just needs to be created awareness around it anyways. but you also miss the point that it should be csm-only, which the csm has already requested."
"actually, i disagree that it should be csm only.the csm currently ignore the forums, and the mailing lists, and the in-game channel for discussion purposes. having another forum will just show how bad the communication really is...i disagree entirely that you need a csm forum only due to the fact that you have been elected to listen, interact and discuss issues with players. the issues being raised in csm meetings should be player issues  as a player you may have a good idea or two. it should not be a personal soapbox and vehicle to bring forward issues that directly benefit a csm member.there has been a preponderance of issues of late from certain csm members. most show a poor understanding of the wider game, and even at times a poor understanding of the area they will affect. this 'thinking' by certain csm members that their ideas are somehow 'better' than other ideas has to stop. personally i'd change csm member issue raising;, i'd like to see only issues that have been collaborated on by numerous csm members or checked by allowed to be posted as issues. i'd keep the ability of players to post issues as it stands.take care,arithron"
"well, you didn't get the point obviously.right now, we use the meetings to ask questions and discuss with the person who is raising the issue. by giving an area for the csm to take these discussions in a thread which everybody can read, but only csm reply, it will facilitate discussion much better in my eyes.there is an issue with the assembly hall as it is now, because there is so much spam due to the whole \"support\" thing. well, that's just a cheap shot. but ok.why? csm members are part of the community too.it wouldn't change a thing. people would just work around that whole thing. sorry to say. i understand where you are coming from, but the world is not perfect. lets not work against the the council and it's productivity, just to try and make it like the world is perfect."
"i agree with you that the assembly hall makes it hard to follow a discussion- hence why i stated earlier these discussions need to happen in the forum already in existance jita park speakers forum. i also agree that the discussion needs to happen earlier- i just can not see how providing a forum for the csm only will encourage them to discuss issues! most don't use the tools available already blaming these for the ills and using them as justification for not discussing is poor form, imo. some use them, successfully eg, dierdra and her bh/merc thread, you and the t1 loot thread etc.poor issues posted by some csm members is a cheap shot? its a fact. the evidence is there for all to see. ill-thought through, they reach the meetings and are promptly voted down; not because there is a conspiracy to reject issues presented by x, but because the issue is a non-issue or a poor one.by making csm members discuss issues before posting, you get, at least, a better chance of a decent issue/identified issue. it also shows that the csm is putting some effort into issue discussion, apart from in voting meetings.personally, i'd like to see weekly discussion meetings, where issues are selected from forums for further discussion, these are discussed by the csm with input from a variety of viewpoints, csm members are then tasked with development of an issue in the jita park forum, and finally the issue is presented in the assembly hall for the 7 day period then voted on etc.take care,arithron"
"probable troll post is probably a troll, however:then why the **** are they playing eve online?"
"the key here is in the phrase 'so-called pvp'. i don't do it personally but it looks to me like there's no player skill involved, it boils down to who has the biggest blob, the biggest sp total or the biggest wallet. if that actually is the case, i can understand why people wouldn't bother with it.besides, eve is a complex and involving game - the pew vs pew is only one level. industry, mining, missions, ratting, etc... are other levels, and if people enjoy those more than the pew vs pew, then ... <shrug>speaking as a high sec carebear however, a certain level of player predation is necessary to keep a little bit of edge in the game. if this was in the assembly hall, it would not be getting my thumbs-up"
"the key here is in the phrase 'so-called pvp'. i don't do it personally but it looks to me like there's no player skill involved, it boils down to who has the biggest blob, the biggest sp total or the biggest wallet. if that actually is the case, i can understand why people wouldn't bother with it.besides, eve is a complex and involving game - the pew vs pew is only one level. industry, mining, missions, ratting, etc... are other levels, and if people enjoy those more than the pew vs pew, then ... <shrug>speaking as a high sec carebear however, a certain level of player predation is necessary to keep a little bit of edge in the game. if this was in the assembly hall, it would not be getting my thumbs-up so you are saying you are willing to support a topic that is obviously a troll post and you have no experience in what so ever. nice."
"in short, i disagree with the need for this. find some friends to do exploration with if you dislike changing ships for it."
"no, make them unanchor after 30 days, please."
"interesting point. i'll ponder it further once ambulation is implemented and i can sit in jita 4-4 strumming my lute.placeholder post so i can find this again when i get home"
"i've been reading quite a bit on the forums lately and see quite a few posts revolving around the same subjects 0.0, cap ships, sov, pos, and how they all created lag.a few good posts..local chat.. increaseing the emptyness of spaceposts reminding me of the good ol daysa man with a vision might get a bit lenghty but bear with me.. 1st off.. i've never ran a pos or managed it.. i've looked into the logistics/isk but never actually did the hauling.i've been around for quite a few years.. started sometime after the bs were rolled out.the #1 thing that everyone is blameing other things on.. the lack of fun, lag, blobs, ect comes from 1 thing .. there is no longer an average of under 10,000 players logged on anymore. it's more than tripled. pos were created so it wasnt a station blob, caps created, cause of the roaming fleet blob, sov created to spread out the pos warefare in hopes of creating multiple battles at the same time instead of blob each and every tower.we need to put the vastness of space back in the game to give the fun back.some ideas from the past week reading various posts, they all kinda work off each other where as alone i probably wouldn't be all that interested.1. kill local i like the idea of local more or less as alliance or fleet or channels of that nature. you can see those that have talked but not sure if they are still there. if nothing else so you can only see those in local in your alliance or friendly. something like that even if its only in 0.0.2. caps keep caps in 0.0. make a carrier/freigter hybrid, hangers ect of carrier but no mods like a freighter for 0.0-low sec. possibly some inbetween bs-cap ship for low sec. lots of ideas out there but i havn't read much on it, just know the feeling reading the 1st couple post on some of those threads. titans. well i'd be for limiting the ammount of titans to 1 per constalation. an alliance holds 2 const then 2 titans. consinder it the ammount of resources needed to be gathered to maintain the titan without actually putting an upkeep cost/materials on it.3. sov aspect of 0.0, pos and sov. sov should be maintained per constalation, possibly per sub constalation, and branch out from there. each region have a hub only controlled by holding a high mojority of constalations. each constalation a hub controlled by holding the majority of the sytems. when an alliance holds a region, each constalation has to be assigned to a corp/s of that alliance. it is theirs to defend and maintain, and if its just a region then each system. in essence spreading the fleet in a manner where each system maintained/defended. 4. the key the key to making this work. ccp started on it.. but my thinking was they were createing the traffic advisory to limit traffic to stop the lag and blobs. i think that is the way to go. limit 0.0 systems to 300, each claimed system can have a max of 150 of the holder and friendlies. if hostiles jump in even if theres only 100 friendlies they can only bring in 150. this brings lag to its brink of playability. this also means a large alliances are going to make multiple strikes.. spreading out multiple battles creating more fun/logistics that the carriers were meant for. the holder of the system can further limit rights to renters keeping them out of hubs as they own the stargate.. possibly creating the need of hackers in hostile fleets adding a bit more fun. this is also going to bring better use out of fleet organization.. each fleet you know is not going to be bigger than 150. so your not going to take 50 caps 50 bs and 50 support, more likely only 25 caps 85 bs 40 support or some where along those lines."
"this \"- imagine, how many chinese farmers would die in the first week :\" lol.... ccp are against selling isk online anyway.and omfg this is an awesome and well thought out idea.im getting tingles thinking about it :a lone pilot spends his day off in a dead end 0.1 system without being hassled then all of a sudden a rapier uncloaks next to him... imagine the shock :d its how it f****** should be.oh im mining at a belt deep deep in no mans land but its ok i will know soon as someone enters the same solar system i.e. millions and millions of kilometers wide as me."
"anyone who disagrees with making this happen is just soft and probobly cries when they get ganked."
"i like this idea, i think would bring a whole knew level to compation for control of a system and because of that...thumbs up!"
"its certainly worth pushing in front of ccp to see what they think imo"
"currently mission farmers can crank out faction ammo at a tenth the amount of time it takes a builder to produce the t2 anologue from a researched bpo, and sell said faction ammo at stupid rates of profit.ccp needs to look into the faction ammo issue and modify t2 so that it is no longer overshadowed by a t1 ammo that can be produced by the 5000-unit lot in 1/10th the time it takes to build the same quantity from a researched t2 bpo much less an invented t2 bpc.currently t2 is laughable. few would bother when t1 faction is more available and has none of the idiotic nerfs."
"agreed. faction stuff should in my opinion always offer an edge over the corresponding t1 and t2 equivalents, but in the case of many t2 ammo types, the disadvantages are too extreme."
"[issue] pos warfare/sov. sucks"
"supported"
"supported"
"supported"
"it's certainly an odd one. i don't see why there's a simple page to upload the image, it gets view and if it's okayed it automatically gets put in the next patch, no matter how minor."
"i support streamlining of customizable alliance logos. but let's not throw away the review of the logo by ccp. please encourage the maintenance of high graphical standards, and for goodness sake, please no animated gifs!"
"idle needs a logo"
"explosion velocity up please, that is a main one too ontop of a hp boost"
"i just got a black ops sin and have been enjoying cloaking outside of stations just next to the undock point. when a target undocks i decloak, lock with 2 sensor boosters and blow him up, loot, dock and reset.the sin makes a great solo ship, and is pretty entertaining. also you guys seem to be forgetting that you can reach a larger jump range with skills by default you start with a 4.0 ly jump range so 2.0 ly is acceptable. a 2.5 ly start would be great though of course.as for fuel, i am not sure as to how jumping other ships through a jump bridge works so i can't make a statement on that. anyone care to explain?"
"against"
"against the nerf"
"nerf is too harsh"
"against the nerf. increment missile speed, explosion velocity, and add 200% falloff on webs."
"good ideas semkhet you should clik the box to actually vote against it. web falloff is a great idea imo but not voting properly here is a bad one ."
"against"
"in low sec and npc 0.0 it forces people to raise standing with npc factions to see who's in local, not fun. in deep 0.0 more pos stuff, bleah. not supported-"
"role specific ships and the ability to rent \"intel\". pretty sure he already said that.gives people the upper hand if its their home."
"nice idea, but i think you've gone far far too overboard discussing specifics. features and ideas is the forum of initial ideas and discussion. it is better to post there, discuss it, refine it, and get it in such a format to present here that already covers the ins and outs, and therefor comes to a straight show of support."
"come on guys, there must be more people than this who have an opinion about it!"
"excellent suggestion. i would support this change to the ui."
"supported"
"minor necro because this issue came up again in ships and modules. i don't think csm discussed this, if they did, sorry for bringing it up again.i know csm doesn't want to spend time on specific ship fixes, thats cool. but maybe just pass along a note to ccp with a post it note saying 'seriously?'the ship is essentially useless and could use a better role or buff"
"running out to lunch and unable to read in detail for now, but:perhaps change the procurer to a tech i gas harvester bonused barge?"
"i *think* that ccp wanted mercoxit to be something dangerous that only specialized ships can mine.that would explain the skill and specialized lasers. a specialized ship is then only the next step.something went wrong, though. or they scrapped the idea?sounds goo, imo. it still has to be improved, though, it is ridiculous that combat ships do a better job than the specialist ships."
"oh yeah, of course, mining produces minerals whereas missions don't... oh wait... silly me and to reply to the op, the procuror has a role - it's the mining ship after a frigate for miners who don't want to train for combat ships."
"three points to make:1 so then by your logic frigates are for other than mining what, knitting?2 the cruiser skill doesn't necessitate combat. combat can happen at any time, no matter what you fly. also do you know for example what a logistics ship is focused towards? not forgetting the osprey and scythe.last i heard, one of if not the most famous player in eve pilots a revelation for mining veldspar. 3 the procurer is still awful. refer to all the posts saying the procurer is awful, some of them make good points about why it is awful."
"procurer = baed, mmmkay?"
"supporting procurer love!it's cute!"
"you also forgot that ratting cant support as many people as missions and in a lot of the 0.0 space you can not run missions because woops they are player controlled sov."
"this topic is going around in circles. the mission protectors have yet to accept the fact that you make more isk on average in high sec running missions than in 0.0 ratting. it's so obvious a fact that i'm amazed they can't accept it. well, not amazed. most of them are trying to protect their cash cow, and i guess that's just human. a bunch of good ideas have been hatched on how to fix this. personally, my opinion goes for a genereal nerf of high sec pve income coupled with a small buff to low sec. this would be to reduce the economic draw backs of just boosting everything. this will also help solve the low sec population issue. once you can make more isk/h doing pve in low secn than in high sec, people will start moving back.some anonymous bear will no doubt reply to this exclaiming \"i will never go to low sec!!!\" and that might be true. however, many will and that's all that matters."
"let the bears keep their lvl 4 missions, but instead buff low sec to be like 0.0 currently is, maybe a little more on top of that. and then buff 0.0 so it has double or triple its current rewards, the systems stay as good as they currently are, you just get more isk out of them. and the bears get to keep their hi sec cash cow. everybody wins."
"well, it would seem as a really good suggestion until you realise the fact that all you have done is essentially nerf high sec and then pumped a hell of a lot of isk into the system, causing run away inflation. it's much better to just nerf the high sec pve rewards, boost low sec pve up to a point where it is still less than 0.0 and leave 0.0 as it is. this keeps balance in regards to isk in the system."
"what will actually fix this is not just nerfing lvl4's or boosting low-sec which badly does need a boost simply make lvl4 access only viable through player corps, not npc corps. then any pirate corp/alliance can easily pay concord to go to war...its that simple ccp....but wait! that'll force people to pvp!! yes eve is a pvp game its harsh...oh wait this isn't 2006"
"the figures summarised jarvis' post not mine. and you read the figure wrong as well..."
"translation: we want easy kills, bad bad ccp...give us easy kills now!"
"translate this to \"everyone who has a different experience than max would like cannot accept 'reality' as max sees it?\"ummm no.let me be absolutely crystal clear here. your 'fact' which you harp on so much is not universal. i have an expensive rigged mission dominix up in empire. i use it to solo l4s sometimes. it's collecting dust.why? two reasons.reason 1 l4s solo are boring. sure you can make isk but i play eve for fun and grinding through rats for hours is dull dull dull if there's no challenge and no one else to work with.however, were they as lucrative as you claim with your 'facts' i'd suck that up when i wanted funds for something badly like the hac i just bought and the other one i'm saving for. but you know - at my skill level and with the fits available etc. 0.0 ratting makes me more isk per hour. period. which, by the way, is reason 2.so, for me at my skill level and skill choice your 'fact' is pure fantasy. it's untrue no matter how you slice it. keep in mind that i loot and salvage all my l4s and don't play in mission hubs where the thieves hang out so i'm getting the max out of those missions. and still the ratting, where i only seldom loot or salvage, makes me more money in a given time frame. oh, and it's also more fun.your 'fact' may well be true for a certain character with a specific skill set and ship fit etc. however it is not universal. it is not a fact for me.and because of that, forward starbow collects dust on her hull while archon and medea get a workout down in null sec.so there you go. so much for your 'cash cow' argument."
"it's the general reality. you might be different, but that's just it. you're the exception.not an argument. as we have seen in these threads, lots of people find mission running fun and do nothing but. yes, 0.0 ratting in certain systems are more profitable than level 4 running. in general however, that's not the case, given the fact that in 0.0 you either have to work at keeping your space safe, or you have to ninja rat and cloak up every time someone enters local. that's a whole lot of time wasted. no such waste in high sec mission running. add to that the fact that the majority of 0.0 sucks ass and you might as well stay in high sec unless you're one of the lucky few.you know the difference between \"generally true\" and \"absolutely true\"?yeah, you owned that argument alright."
"i live near -1.0 angel space with triple 1.8m bounty rats in some belts. competition for rats has some of my corp mates going back to empire on an alt to run missions. that is fact. all other arguments aside having unlimited missions vs ratting means missions can always become more lucrative no matter what space you in if your rat competition is high.also check out u4 in syndicate for missions sometime. several q20 agents around there."
"so you tell me, and it may be true but what data supports this assumption of yours? is it merely your own personal experience, which is no more universal than mine? is it what everyone 'says'? we all know how reliable that is.your post presents your position as uncontrovertible fact without exception. if you expect action on something when others doubt your position you should be prepared to back it up with facts. i have yet to see any.my experience is the reverse of your 'fact'. for all i know you're just making it all up. it's a perfectly valid argument, but i don't pretend or ever state that it's a universal position. i find mission running boring. i know others do as well because they have told me so, and i see no reason to disbelieve them.none of which is a problem, really. i'm not calling for a change to the status of missions - if there are others who enjoy them, that's fantastic. with a bit of tweaking to make them less repetitive and more challenging i would too.again your mighty 'fact' that everyone should know and understand suddenly has huge holes in it that you yourself admit. let me be clear here i am not part of the 'lucky few'. ufa is a renter alliance! we pay rent, yes. but we aren't required to defend our space, the landlords do that, although we do help out because we like to be neighbourly. we are the bottom of the 0.0 food chain. if we're the 'lucky few' then boy i'd love to see what bob or the goons manage. remember max, renters get the crappy space. not the primo real estate. the holes in your position are now big enough to fit my dominix through.i do, and you presented your statement as an absolute. now that it's indefensible in that way it's only 'generally' true? if i do a bunch of research and find out that it is only true for a few rare folks with just the right set up and skills then what will it be?how about some actual proof before people actually act on your 'fact'?i rather think i did, actually. i refuted all your points with real facts based on solid experience. this post too.i haven't done extensive research on this and don't claim to have, but i also am not coming in here and presenting my position as the truth that everyone knows and should admit to except that they don't want to in order to protect their 'cash cow'. you know, that 'cash cow' that i don't use because it doesn't make me as much as my other options and is less desireable for other reasons besides.make your arguments with facts instead of rhetoric, otherwise you'll just keep digging your hole deeper and undermining your own position. even if you're right on a broad level you'll never convince anyone of it with statements like that."
"if the competition is too fierce it makes perfect sense that mission running would be better as the one resource is finite and the other infinite.i'm not sure why you bring up syndicate though - iirc that's 0.0 space. we're talking about empire missioning which is very different.your point is well made that if the rats are ratted out then missioning is better. when my belts are ratted out i generally go and do other things that need doing and leave the wallet work for a better day."
"sound ideas.some sort of notify when system goes into vulnerable would also be nice. corp mail maybe?"
"fw veteran reporting in...i agree with the concerns in this thread, but i can also inform you that ccp requested a lot of information from the csm on how they can improve factional warfare.and i wouldn't be surprised if we would see some improvements in the next empyrean age update.if there are no improvements, i'll raise this issue, of course!link to the document i wrote for ccpthese are my personal views, keep that in mind."
"some interesting ideas there. i particularly like the general theme of trying to come of with non-pvp roles to play in fw. i think it will be tough to come up with a fitting way to do this, but it's worth working toward.here's another idea to consider though it would be specific to the amarr/matar front: slavery. on the matari side, we have always longed for a game mechanic by which slaves could be freed. there used to be a very bad mechanic for doing this agent offers that was largely detested until even that was taken away, leaving nothing. now we have this new war the pits the tribal liberation force stated goal: freeing slaves against the 24th imperial crusade stated goal: creating slaves, and there is absolutely no mechanic dealing with slaves.i propose:1 place some new agents for each side. at the matari agent, slaves can be turned in. mechanically, this will be a repeatable mission akin to the cosmos trade missions, with lp and standings rewards for completing them. to place a bit of a limit on farming, perhaps the number of slaves to complete each mission might increase each time or perhaps just each time within a given time period. note that unlike the old agent offer, this process does not generate 'freed slaves' or 'slaves' for either side; if it did it would invite players with alts on both sides of the conflict to cycle the same people back and forth indefinitely.2 drop slaves as loot in some form. one possibly interesting way to do this might be to use the exploration system. for example, a tlf supporter might be able to probe exploration system an amarrian mining colony or slave convoy, destroy it, then carry back a number of slaves to freedom. the normal fw plexes might drop some. when a system is captured, perhaps it could spawn a large number of probe-able hidden sites where large numbers of slaves could be picked up. in some cases, convoys of haulers might be required, giving the other side a new pvp objective -- blockading the newly captured system and attacking transports looting it.3 do the same thing for the amarrians, but in reverse. they are raiding matari settements for fresh slaves, and transporting them back to 24ic hq for training.4 keep counts of the numbers of slaves trained/freed by either side as an additional 'in-character' score.i'm not sure what the equivalent would be for the gallente/caldari front. the gallente could certainly free slaves, but it really isn't the focus of their conflict with the caldari.just some thoughts..."
"my major irritation with fw is all of the above, and the stallout of standings gain.as you gain rank the percentage you get from each plex drops, added to the natural reduction in returns as you approach +10.in standard missions you recieve the same percentage gain for a particular mission regardless of your standings dependant on skills.i.e. +2.50% for xyz mission, if your standings are 1 or 10. ofc, the amount your standing shifts depends on how far you are from +9.99~, reducing that gap by 2.50%now, with faction warfare, here's an example:clearing a major complex:unranked fw members recieve 4+%, 'lieutenants' recieve +2.75%, 'captains' 0.81%, and so on until you effectively recieve nothing for clearing complexes. so, not only is that gap between your current standing and +10 giving lesser returns as your standings go up, you're recieving less standing with each mission. thus higher-ranked members, not recieving anything for their efforts but wrecks, will toss fw aside with a bad taste in their mouth.this, alone, will put fw into life-support very much like cosmos is now... introduced with great fanfare and then allowed to languish into uselessness after the farmers have exploited it to death."
"agreed. the falloff is too steep; there should be some falloff, but there's too much. alternatively, if there was some other form of award for helping capture a plex -- like lp, for example -- i think that would go a long way toward making plex capture less uninteresting."
"clearly you don't know what you are talking about, and have never flown with 1400mm yourself- tp ranges are not synergisic with artillery, and the tracking is so bad that even when shooting other bs from 100-200km you hardly ever have your full rack hit.this is not about \"it looks ok in eft or whatever\", it is about the usage of these guns in practice. they just don't deliver what was promised in the blurb.your quote from oveur is misplaced, as all the supporters in this thread are not looking at anything in a simplistic way, in fact the complaints largely stem from peoples experience of them in a whole variety of scenarios. and what alpha anyway in the age of trimarks and ehp buffs?.... even in medium/large gangs it all boils down to dps+ehp+lock/reload times"
"i'd rather say that you clearly never really used target painters, surely \"because they suck\". of course tp have the same range as 1400mm. in practice. falloff.so in medium/large gangs you need more than a whole magazine to kill a couple bs with 1400mm ii? ha! don't think so."
"in my opinione: give tempest bonus that increase target painter optimal range to 140km, and icrease amount ammo of 1400mm in clip, and it will be enough give chance to this ship"
"/signedlarge arties need love."
"keep the tech lab"
"please save techlab, i don't want it gone if they're going to make a change to the forum, make it a real change to make the forum useful, don't just nerf areas."
"several eve-o posters in the past have attempted to resolve the issue of what is meant by 'market average' in the eve market user interface. the ui tool itself seems to work well, but the meaning of this 'average' is not clear and is not defined. after researching this topic and not finding a conclusive answer, i now bring the issue before the csm.be it resolved that: ccp disclose the method of calculation for the 'market average' as it is referred to in buy/sell order windows of the market interface. the purpose of this information request is to allow users of this interface to understand the meaning of what is being displayed for them to further the proper use of this tool and their interactions with the eve marketplace."
"please indicate your support for or against, or tell me to go eat my socks because i'm out to lunch."
"it's literally the average price of all transactions of that type. note that it's not the average price of sell orders or buy orders, but transactions. so if two people bought from a sell order a gidget for 1 million isk each, and then a mission runner sold ten gidgets he looted to someone's lowball buy order for 1000 isk each, the market average would be 2*1m + 10*1000/12 = 167,500isk. it doesn't matter at all that some scammer has one for sale for a billion isk ... unless a sucker buys it. i believe there is a choice for the period over which the average is calculated."
"do you really think someone who is willing to macro an entire setup to play the game extensively has not figured out how to send an evemail or start a convo? besides, virtually every other mmo has similar commands, and still manages to fight macros. i prefer functionality for players than pathetic and ineffective roadblocks for people who can easily get around them."
"yup, like this idea.and nicely though out too."
"a nice write up and i agree that something must be done with the rigs that are specialized but not giving a bonus that would attract someone to use them.and most importantly for drone rigs, i'm waiting for something to happen since right now is almost impossible to use them on a drone boat in general drone boats tend to have lower pg/cpu than the similar class ships of the other races.devs did a good start with introducing rigs, i hope they will continue this sooner than later."
"fyi there's already a set of modules for max locked targets, and a skill for ewar falloff."
"i disagree. they've helped a great deal in allowing my completion of the kessel run in less than twelve parsecs. otherwise, nicely written posts - will read again more closely."
"you forgot a rig:singature reduction reduces ship signature radius by +7.5%/lvl t1, 10%/lvl t2 in whatever rigging skill, with zero penalties.there is nothing, other than ship bonii and a never-used implant set, that reduces signature radius, but a ton of stuff that increases it."
"/support for a staement"
"i like"
"agree a rework is needed ."
"i happily support: 1. sent box for eve mail.2. increase in maximum character size of eve mails.3. better sorting abilities, including customizable 'sort by' columns by corp, by alliance, by standing, by date, by character, by.... etc.!"
"here's a good place for this idea :"
"prob needs looking at someone bought 110mil worth of trit off me for 1.2bil a couple of months back"
"supportedplease visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"supported, not just for typos but to make things easier for bulk purchases.say, for example, i'm at a station where the following sell orders are up for widgets.50,000 units @ 100 isk20,000 units @ 150 isk30,000 units @ 200 iski want to buy 100,000 units from these orders i need these widgets now and don't want to muck around waiting for a buy order to fill in this particular casenow, with the current system i have two choices. i can:-1. buy each of the orders seperately, taking three times as long to make my purchase.2. buy 100,000 units at 200 isk each, overpaying for the 70,000 units on offer for less.what i'd like to see is a system where i can make one order for 100,000 units with a maximum price of 200 isk with the order filling from the bottom paying the listed price to each seller.also, if there's still volume to fill in my order after doing this, a buy order will be created for the shortfall automatically if i have the skills to create that order in the chosen station.-----this would have a knock on effect of making it much harder to pull off scams via the market including the one where an isk seller puts a sell order on the market for a single unit of ammo at a ridiculously high price, an isk buyer then creates a legitimate order for 1,000,000 units at the best sell price. isk seller then \"accidentally\" buys from his own order, but the isk goes to the isk buyer as the lowest current sell order. with this change, all the isk buyer would get would be the 50 isk ish that he's actually selling his ammo for thus making it much harder to disguise such transactions via the market, thus forcing them to use direct fund transfers or private contracts to perform the transfer of isk. this has the nice added effect of making the paper trail much clearer for ccp when investigating suspected isk sellers/buyers."
"not supported.. check your transaction logs and contact the person who bought/sold you the item and resolve the issue with them. if he/she doesn't help out then kill him"
"no!in principle, if orders are able to execute, the lowest price on limit orders merely ensures who's in line to get your money. you, placing a market order, say you are willing to pay xxx amount. having the lowest sell order just means that seller is first in line to take advantage of your mistake/bad trade/lack of market knowledge.as a market maker economic pvp'er, that mechanic punishes people who take the time to identify you as a seller and then try to bypass your order. they buy one trit at your price, decide they don't like you, and move up to the next highest order, but your limit order is first in line so they just end up giving you even more money for the same trit...which you bought from them.that's the way it should be. buys and sells. nobody forces you to press an extra key. nobody forces you to create an order for more than the ask price.the mechanic is essential for mm's to make a killing by working the spread in hostile alliance's stations. you make money. they get more trades. in the end it works out pretty good for everyone, but you do the least work for your check.do not kill market makers with this ridiculous idea."
"with all due respect... do you think the seller is going to give a damn?its a \"legal transaction\" -- once you hit that enter key... what do you expect? \"oh i change my mind\" won't work.and people already resort to violence anyway... so its likely to end up being a wild goose chase and you still won't get your money back unless you hound him/her half way across the galaxy.\"are you sure you want to make this transaction\" with the option to \"opt out\" is far more logistical not to mention rational.its likening to walking up to some guy on the street and buying a watch only to find out you spent to much... good luck finding the guy and killing him... he'll be miles away laughing.people don't care about honor when it comes to selling goods anymore they just want your money just like any good enterprising trench coat wearing pilot in space trying to offload some goods.ps: personally i live entirely in the \"view details\" world of the market and always carefully pick what i want and double check the quantity. but not everyone is good at that./signed"
"i live entirely in view details. when you say \"place a buy order\" it automatically sets the amount to the ask. no excuse. in order to make this mistake, you have to be manually setting up a bid, in which case you entered the transaction and you are at fault. op says \"blah blah blah it's using the wrong price when i make a mistake. make my game easy for me.\"the market interface shouldn't take care of lazy people. they have every opportunity to protect themselves from spending money. there is no such thing as non-consensual market pvp. if you don't want to play, don't buy.also, we already have a system for buying and selling to particular people, one's we trust, and at a price we agree to. contracts.this is nothing more than a fix for inattentiveness."
"well said.... i have to agree with your statements there.however... scammers are all over the place these days.but yes... contracts are essentially a good system for that kind of thing."
"/me feels sad to not recieve any support../me feels better by supporting his own thread x"
"a goon after my heart, te amo... and here comes the shameless plugsimple changes regarding hp to improve 0.0 sov for all ---- shameless plugits ridiculous to have to try and understand how ccp screwed the pos changes when the anchorables were moved and the station services invented. they were for small gang and we only take them out with full fleets, 80mil sp!?!?!?!?!? its time ccp hunkered down and made alliances true stewards of their space, unachor unattended installations, get rid of ridiculous hp buffers that are protecting fail alliances from real pvp. all of these suggestions would bring about siginificant and positive changes to 0.0 for all people!!! these suggestions don't need massive testing or sov mechanics overhauls or new art&design, they are giving pilots back the abilitiy to do moar, blob less and have moar fights!@!!@!! do it now!!!!"
"what about making a pos very weak if it is not occupied by a defender? have the shields only be at 50% if no one is home."
"just to clarify, i'm supporting the option mentioned by ccp to allow individual corps to apply to militias while remaining members of an alliance. they would still be required to meet the standings requirements that independent corps must meet to enlist. in order for an entire alliance to join, each member corp would have to meet that requirement.according to ccp, a change of this sort would be fairly easy to implement. make it so! we come for our people ... but are currently being kicked out by the bouncers."
"yes!that's all i have to say."
"the basic idea is to allow corps to declare war within specific spaces, at a lower cost than normal. this could be used for more specialized actions, punitive wars, barring an enemy from your space, or just to make a point. not to mention that 50 million/week can be alot to newer players.all sample prices due weekly, as normal.total war: 50 million for the entire cluster; the current mechanics.empire war: 15 million per empire allows you to declare war within an entire faction space, such as the caldari state. your enemies can still fly around as normal anywhere else. notice that if you're going to dec within 3 factions, you might as well go all out.regional war: 5 million isk per region. this allows targeting of specific resources, and with judicious use could be quite effective in hamstringing an opponent. once again, if you dec within 3 regions, you might as well go for an empire dec instead. unless you're being crafty.constellation war: loosen up, mr. scrooge. all current systems like mutuality and multipliers for extra wars would work as normal. the reasoning behind this: rp groups could rp with it alot, industrial groups could declare war over a nice belt of veldspar without trashing their overall productivity, people could fight over trade routes, whatever. yes, this is obviously skewed towards piracy and low population pvp groups, but it would benefit carebears as well because they could wardec and still be free to carebear, with a little inconvenience. the deccing corp could 'win' by denying the resources of their enemies. and moving that hulk every week would get to be giant sized pain in the ass, lemme tell ya and finally, it would behoove players to pay attention to where they are, as a single concordokken could easily nullify the benefits of limited war. some sort of 'firezone' indicator could be placed on the neocom. also mixing of war levels would be a necessity; if someone decs you in metropolis, there should be nothing preventing you from deccing them in the entire republic. otherwise it could turn into battlegrounds."
"corp-on-corp war is 2 million, it's only 50 million if you're deccing a whole alliance. as for the idea itself, it's not bad, but it's really not enough. i'll thumbs-up it, but wardecs need a lot bigger changes than just this one."
"good idea"
"/signed....emphatically."
"oh.. >_> and i certainly agree that wardecs need much more love than this, but still."
"if we look at the isk making methods, miningroid & moon, manufacturing in stations & poss ratting, exploration and missioning the only one without a cap on the amount of people that can do it profitably is mission running.so we only have one system in eve that scales properly with subscription growth and you want to break it.i swear that the devs must read these threads and not know whether to laugh or cry.not supported"
"so while i agree with what you are trying to do i don't agree with how you are trying to do it.missions and mining in general need to be changed in a way that supports the current play style of a casual player but limits the ability of players to blitz missions. limiting the number of missions one can take from an agent is a good start but if you allow infinite numbers of missions to be taken in low sec then that can be farmed as well and at a bigger profit. especially if missions are brought up to par with what they should be considering the added risk in low sec and null sec.if you make mining much more interactive so that macro miners are basically eliminated then you eliminate the mission problem entirely because the massive flow of minerals into the system will be cut in half if not more, i bet, and though mission running would become more profitable it wouldn't if you reduced the number of npc's and made them harder while removing basic tech 1 loot drops.how to make mining interactive is tough but i would say the first step would be to eliminate belts in high sec completely and make cosmos and missions the only source of minerals and those being very limited in quantity. then make mining missions spawn tiny belts in random locations just like combat missions do and force the miners to move around often rather than just set in a belt and macro all day. then the miner might not get as much in minerals for his/her time but will get compensated by rewards, bonus's, and loyalty points.leave the belts in low sec and .0 as incentive to mine those area's due to easier access of resources that the empires have not already farmed dry. it fits from an rp prospective and would make macro's much more difficult to program and run. you can also include random events like gas pockets and ruptures that cause your lasers/strip miners to turn off or the asteroid to break into two targets rather than one forcing you to target them both. anything to increase the work but retain the current total payout for legitimate mining instead of macro mining. to reduce the influx of low risk mineral production.i simply would rather attack the root of the problem than plug holes all day long. the biggest problem in eve is macro mining and ninja ratting. fix those and you will fix a hell of a lot of other problems and there are very good proposals on changing local to make ninja ratting near impossible."
"\"yes there is a vast amount of isk being poured into the game but there is isk being poured back out too. my friend is about the worst shopper i have ever seen and probably blows half his income buying things and selling them at a loss and gets more domi's blown up in missions than anyone i have ever seen. i myself don't always run missions and have lost my fair share of ships including two rohks recently amongst a small armada of rifters and blackbirds. so again their is a group out there that blitzes missions all day long and generates a massive amount of income with zero losses but not all and without a good study i think you will find that most mission runners don't run more than a hand full of missions and don't account for the huge isk faucet that they can be if abused.\"you're confusing \"isk leaving the game\" with \"isk leaving your friend's wallet. two very different things..."
"it's well within the dev's powers to scale all of those inherently pvpable activities. simply adding more decent true-sec 0.0 space, allowin 0.4 sec moons to be mined, increasing the frequency of 0.0/lo-sec exploration sites would all be fine things to do imo."
"i love this whole risk vs reward crap i see being flung about, much like a dead donkey. i wonder how many people that are complaining about this have alts that partake in the whole scamming buisness which has 0 risk for all reward. setting up dodgy contracts, buy orders and running scams on alts...you people also seem to forget that not everyone can commit endless amount of time to go exploring, during the week, they might get 2 hours a day and maybe some fleet time at the weekend, thats it, so they cant afford not to have a \"stable isk\" income, becuase without it, they simply won't bother witha sub fee.furthermore, theres a large portion, according to ccp figures, the largest portion of eve's population, that currently engages in these missions so any kind of negative tinkering is going to potentially cost ccp the majority of there income."
"it's amazing how the mission defenders keep using this argument when it is, in fact, the strongest argument for a nerf. that so large a percentage of eve players run these missions, many of them despite living in 0.0 or low sec, clearly demonstrates that something is wrong with mission running."
"your failing to realize the implications of buying something high and selling it low.if i buy a ship for 5 million isk and turn around and sell it for 4 million isk then 1 million isk just left the game never to be seen again.if you fail to understand this concept please don't ever invest in stock of any kind less you loose your ass and end up homeless."
"cant you guys try to come up with something better than the constant ad hominem attacks?"
"lol. you do realise that the market is player controlled right?no they cant actually. even assuming you are in a great belt with big roids, are undisturbed and got maxed mining skills in a hulk you wont compete with a normal mission runner. the only positive side of mining in high sec atm is that you can do it largely afk, and that its easier to run multiple accounts with it. macro mining."
"storchs deliver babies."
"it couldn't possibly mean that people enjoy the activity could it? almost every single game ever developed has had pve content in it. that pve content also constituted about 95% of the actual games themselves. the only notable exception i can make off the top of my head is microsofts recent release of shadowrun which failed miserably because a huge portion of a player base wanted pve content.people by and large enjoy pve content in games. a vast majority of players have no desire to spend their free time hunting other players when they can enjoy pve content. also remember their is a vast difference between the rpg play style of pvp and the first person shooter play style of pvp. one can be very taxing and difficult while the other is more of a free for all in which any noob with a gun can kill the best player in the game if he gets the drop on him despite rpg aspects of those games. rpg's on the other hand create very distinct separations between new players and experienced players and result in a centralization of power behind the long time player base that goes beyond skill and experience of the player into the income level and character level of that player. eve falls into a category in which players are segregated by these extremes whether you think it is or not. in that situation most casual players are going to go the more intelligent route of playing it safe rather than striking out into the world beyond just to get owned.eve takes this unforgiving stance to an extreme because your loss is actually a loss as oppose to some games where you can pvp without fear of being heavily penalized for losing. yes there are games that find a middle ground like wow and everquest but pve is hugely prevalent in those games too. yet in its day a game like anarchy online had tons of pvp because the penalties for losing were not harsh. there were also mechanisms in that game to protect new players from being assaulted by high level players that further spurred pvp as an aspect of the game from the lowest levels on up. there were very good reasons to pvp in that game as well compared to eve where pvp is largely less about gaining anything of value and more about gaining territoryi don't place value on it in eve because .0 and low sec are imho not currently worth more than high sec or just having fun.this is a failing not of the casual player who simply wants to enjoy pve content but of ccp to develop a meaningful purpose to pvp and .0 sovereignty. people need to stop trying to plug holes and start looking for a solution to whats causing the holes in the first place. ninja ratting and macro mining are huge problems and when these were much less prevalent people didn't have a problem with missions. thats not to say that missions don't have a problem with giving out too much loot and having too high of rewards in high sec but there are other much larger fish to fry. a good look at .0 sovereignty would also be nice since it currently is more of a war of bragging rights than a war over anything worth while."
"no you lost 1m. the 5m you paid is in the person you bought from's wallet. the person who bought from you saved 1m more than you did buying something. it was money he already had or he couldn't have used it. if i buy a friends mining drone for 4bil and sell it for 4k my 4b-4k is transfered to his wallet. the only isk lost is to taxes from the sale."
"you have sort of disqualified yourself from further participation in this thread by failing to understand basic economics. furthermore, all of your long-winded points have already been adressed over and over......and over......and over again.basically, please stop posting."
"yes, your point? your assuming that players care about their isk, in his case he doesn't and so right click sell item is his #1 method of moving goodsdespite my berating him for it repeatedly and if he wants something he will sell everything he owns to get it if necessary. including six 350mm prototype large rail guns that he sold for a loss of around 1 mill each. so in effect his frivolity with isk is not only costing him money but costing the economy money because by spending 5 million and only getting 4 back 1 million of that is simply gone.but your assuming that a player is blitzing missions. most players are not. as i said most players that i know running missions either just kill the stuff or split their firepower between weapons and salvage/tractor on tier 1 bs's. yes you can grab a maurader and farm the crap out of missions but thats not the fault of the high sec mission runner thats the fault of ccp for making a ship thats optimal role is farming missions and ninja ratting.please stop lumping every mission runner in with those that abuse the system. there will always be those that push the limits to the max and cause problems but to nerf them would be to nerf a vast majority of the populations fun activities as well. as i said i have no problem with limiting the number of missions you can get from an agent but limiting it to 1 is overboard and allowing infinite in .0 will simply move mission farming to .0.also just because macro mining can be done doesn't mean its an acceptable practice. to say mission running is less risky than mining is ridiculous because its only less risky to a small portion of the population that gear themselves for maximum profit as oppose to the casual player who may won't fly around in a ship fitted with billion dollar modules because they cant afford it.someone posted that they could easily handle everything thrown at them in a tech 2 fitted cyclone and make 60mill an hour but they admitted that they were also running optimal missions to make that much and overstated the amount of bounty and reward by rounding everything upwards. so best case scenario the person made 50 mill an hour but that wasn't average that was a bs heavy mission which consequently has better loot and salvage. while most missions don't have a majority of bs's and most mission runners don't cherry pick their missions and only run wc's and ae's. i would also love to see that cyclone solo an ae bonus room fitted only with tech 2 mods without warping out repeatedly due to the massive dps in that room.i am not saying missions can't be tweaked but as i said before your trying to plug holes instead of look at underlying problems."
"seriously...i mean, i could almost forgive you the first time, but now you have cemented the fact that you don't really understand how this game works.let me make it really simple. you buy a ship for 5 mil isk.you sell said ship for 4 mil isk.your net loss is 1 mil isk.does that 1 mil isk disappear?no. let's look closer.you buy a ship for 5 mil isk. 5 mil isk is payed into my me being the seller account.you sell said ship to pete for 4 mil isk.now, you have 1 mil less isk than you started with.i have 5 mil more isk and one less ship than i started with.pete has 4 mil less isk and one more ship than he started with.get it?"
"thats great and all but 1 mill isk is still lost. if you buy a tool and never use it and sell it for less than what you paid for it its a net loss to the entire economy. so my friend with no large railgun skills got no return on his investement and sold it at a loss therefore earning a net loss for the economy.just so you know a net loss is when your expenses exceed your income.i am not talking about a capital loss or a transfer of income because again your assuming that the person is actively trying to maintain a semblance of prudent spending. he isn't being forced to sell at a loss he is choosing to do so. the net difference is a loss despite one person saving money and one person making money the third person lost money. that money is simply gone. it's a forced depreciation of value to the object by the seller."
"um wat?do you not understand that although you are 1m poorer, you have made some other player 1m richer?isk has left your wallet, but it has not left the game.wait... you are aware that the market is basically* all stuff that other players are buying and selling, right? if you didn't know that then some of the major issues with hi-sec missioning might not have made sense to you.*except skillbooks, pos and trade goods."
"um, i think you should stop talking about economics. you have seriously confused \"money in your game\" with \"money in the eve economy\"."
"do you understand the concept of depreciation max? you know the thing that is happening to the value of minerals since the game started and people have started macro mining en mass? they are not placing value on their time like they would in real life so they are forcing the value of the item down to continually undercut their competition and move their product faster. this results in lower prices for everything manufactured using those goods. so by buying something high and selling it low its taking a loss. boone pickens recently lost about 10 million dollars when he sold his stock in yahoo at a loss. no one made money from that deal. no one gained anything that didn't already exist.it's like a baseball card. say you have the only known copy of a hank aaron rookie card that is autographed. well that card is worth say 100k. if someone buys that card from you for 100k and then another card is found that person will now have lost money because the value of the card will go down. the assets value depreciated. however, if the person simply sells the card for less than 100k that person still lost money. it's a net loss. the card should have retained its original value but no matter how many times it is sold again someone in there lost money that isn't recouped ever."
"we're not talking about the stock market here, precious. every time you click 'sell' you sell the item to another player. no money gets lost. the money you pay goes into his wallet. same when you sell something. money goes from the buyer's wallet into yours. it's amazing that you know so many big words yet fail to realize this simple fact."
"risk vs reward works just fine in missions. i'd say it is even on a better scale than 0.0 npcing.you are mixing 2 things:1. npc generated risk - compensated by bounties and mission reward, loot, loyalty points, standing etc. this always works as it should. you get same amount of isk for same difficulty npcs well not directly, but in total yes. check out the 0.0 belt bs bounty and same name mission bs bounty. usualy the mission bs is 2/3 or so of the same 0.0 belt bs.2. player generated risk - never taken into account in anything because this is a self regulating system. however it is constrained by boundaries of security status and concord. player generated risk is an auto-balancing system, because it works only with limited resources that are completely tied to the player driven market mods, ships, minerals etc..you cannot compare highsec missions to 0.0 ratting by player generated risks, because they work in 2 completely different systems of mechanics.but if you want a self-regulated system for missions, start with agent quality, make it dynamic so that overcrowding an agent will force people to migrated to better offerings. this way, you have created a resource that is actualy influenced by player activity that limits the agent system. evereybody will be happy in this way.some notes on your exploration missions and other things:1. you cannot move missions to exploration based, because exploration is not guaranteed to produce content. this would allienate casual players that like to spend 1-2 hours a day on missions to relax a bit after work you know, rl. this kind of players need instantly accessible content that generates some rewards for their time spent and does not have high requirements on time invested.2. 0.0 ratting is at least on equal level to l4 missions in isk income. your question as to why then people don't gravitate to 0.0 has a simple answer, rl requirements. 0.0 is much more taxing on time spent and planning. not everybody can spend that much time. most if not all alliances have rules on alliance ops and active time/duties etc. this is the biggest hurdle to master for casual players.3. mission running is the only significant isk generator. all the other activities either only turn isk around in the economy or generate very little isk. severely limiting missions would have a very adverse effect on the game making it harder on time spent to achieve goals isk again allienating casual players.any way you look at the issue, you cannot simply wreck missions with your kind of proposal. there are changes possible to make the system work better or more interesting, but those are not the kind you asked for."
"ahhh, no we are talking about the same thing but different values.i am however wrong about him directly removing isk from the system though he does have a negative impact on it its not in the way i was thinking.i am not saying that 1 million actual isk left the game just that the value item being sold for less than its value removes isk indirectly by lowering the value of the item overall. or should i say the need for isk. hence my references to depreciation. the result being depreciation in the price of items. isk isn't directly removed but less isk is required if the activity continues. while isk is still being pumped into the system at the same rate as it was when prices were higher this is a problem but thats why i agreed with the idea of removing tech 1 loot drops and removing npc's but making them harder with better bounties.if you remove the materials such as ore, loot, salvage, etc. the value of those items will increase and more isk will be spent on those items and you wont have the problems of seeing missioning as more valuable as mining.sorry about that i was wrong to say isk itself is leaving the economy from that transaction."
"i refuse this it will force people to go into 0.0 that they dont want to... it will effect the game a lot.. some people just like to mission run and have fun and enjoy the game.. why would you ruin someones experience just because you are fed up with some farmers... also putting most of the agents in low sec will make mission runners life a hell hardly anyone will be running missions and such and limiting the amount of missions one can run a day is also stupid some people spend more then 4 hours a day running missions... lvl 4 missions help players who need money to get the big ships to go out in 0.0.. this will lose a lot of players who like empire and dont like to fight.. i high disagree on this"
"******"
"three thumbs up here."
"but how does one have 3 thumbs?the idea is mindboggling omg he must be ome kind of freaknot supported coz i like being all nicey nicey and play girly happy day tea parties were no naughty words are allowed"
"just kidding, had yas fooled :p"
"oh no, kids reading swear-words! the imbeciles who decided to censor these letters, did they ever bother to think of what kids are exposed to in the media or around them in general? getting teased for their appearance, weight, clothing, etc. - while being exposed to underweight role models and watching humanity eradicate itself because of political and religious ideologies.no, we have to censor these words. becasue clearly, those will be the end of our children.give me a ****ing break."
"the day that pvp combat between mission-runners and pirates is balanced is the day i would consider supporting making probing missions easier. the problem is that it's not just the pirate gank squad against a mission-runner, it's the pirate gank-squad and 50 npcs against the mission-runner, with the npcs ignoring the pirates entirely. heck, the pirates don't even need a scram or webs; small hordes of npc frigs will handle that for them. in some cases, the npcs even handle ew for the pirates, as well!fix this and i'd consider supporting the idea."
"being a pirate and one that can use scan probe ships. all i can say is bm, bm, bm, bm!"
"the playerbase average age of eve may be older than other mmo's but i've always pondered how eve fairs in terms of maturity level. unfortunately it seems comments like the one quoted above are becoming more and more common in eve and they do absolutely no justice to the reputation it creates among us players. quite sad really."
"/thumbs up/exlegion ftw"
"tempest... woha!"
"as a long time modeller, absolutely.hopefully it'll be an additional revenue stream for ccp as well."
"maybe not forfeit the lp or standing but simply don't list them if they are \"normal\" or below anything in the lp store.even a check box for settings would be great.i don't want to list anyone that i have standing with that is considered \"normal\" and i also don't need to know i have 4 lp points in an agent i used once two years ago."
"while i'm not sure i would want an option to forfeit my standings/lp, i would kill for an option to hide them when i open that part of my character page.just needs a simple settings page with three sections. one for factions, one for corporations and one for agents with the same options available for each[checkbox] do not show standings of this type[checkbox] show standings above [user input box] and below [user input box][checkbox] show all standingsso, for example, i might want to see all my standings for factions view all, but only my standings for corporations i've done reasonable amounts of work for or have annoyed enough that diplomacy won't get me back into positive standings +3.0 or higher/-2.0 or lower and couldn't care less about my standings with individual agents hide all."
"i'd prefer if there would be corporate roles and charisma based skills to negotiate exchange of standings and consolidating lp through the work of good corporate management. something to encourage people to pick corporations with good management."
"how about the ability to \"give\" lp's to other people?"
"now that is an interesting idea."
"that would be part of the corporate management capabilities, corporate representatives negotiating redistribution within the corporation, trades, expulsion of records and such."
"eh, i liek the idea, kind of, but it might open up a whole can of worms"
"nononoomfg, the farmers are already cranking out faction missiles as fast as 5 men can run a level 4, do you want them to transfer their lp back and forth at will??"
"how about in the corporation? anyone joining known farmer outfits to buy these services would certainly be blacklisted by us at least."
"summary:i'm adding this to help those annoyed by the \"wall o' text\"1 make current warp dis gens t22 make a t1 version that only works in focused mode and can be fitted onto any ship i.e. a highslot tackle3 make the requirements of that t1 module such that shield-tankers won't be totally overpoweredissues:1 the introduction of hictors has had a negative impact upon blockade runners due to their ability to apply an infinite point warp scramble in lowsec.2 caldari pilots have been asking for/needing a highslot tackle of some sort for ages to be more viable in pvp.proposal:i recommend that the current hictor warp disruption generator be made a t2 module, and that a t1 version of it be introduced which can be fitted on any ship. this t1 unit would only work in \"focused\" i.e. non-bubble mode.the strength of the focused warp disruption ability of the t2 version i.e. the hictor module would be reduced to 6. this would still allow a heavy interdictor to warp jam any t1 industrial ship regardless of the number of warp core stabilizers used, but would allow t2 blockade runners who max out their lowslots w/ wcss to escape a single hictor. possible module stats:warp disruption generator iican only be fitted on heavy interdictorswarp scramble strength = 6same fitting and skill requirements as currentprototype warp disruption generatorrange = 20kmwarp scramble strength = 2requires propulsion jamming ivcap usage = 5-10cap/s balance pointfitting requirements = 2 pg, 60 cpu balance pointpossible objections:\"won't this make caldari overpowered?\"no. while this would certainly make caldari more viable in pvp, the fitting requirements and cap usage of this new module would make it difficult to use on most current caldari fits. a passive drake would have to give up 1-2 shield power relays in order to remain cap stable and either fit a cpu upgrade or give up a missile launcher to handle the additional cpu required to make the module work. ravens and other caldari ships with extra highslots would be similarly affected. many traditionally passive tanked ships may have to go for an active tank in order to fit this module effectively.furthermore, giving shield tanking ships a highslot tackle does not miraculously fix all their problems - mwds, webbers and cap boosters still compete for valuable midslots. a caldari pilot would either need to further sacrifice their tank to fit these modules, or would have to rely upon other ships to fill these roles.doesn't this change just boost caldari at the expense of everyone else?no. this boost would also aid minmatar shield tankers, and make any shield tank pvp ship more viable and enjoyable.argh!!!! you just want to nerf my hictor!!!!no, i really don't. feel free to look me up in battleclinic - most of my kills are in an onyx = hictors will certainly not be seriously affected by this change - other than the fact that they won't be able to tackle a t2 blockade runner without assistance. please feel free to disagree, support of whatever. i just ask that you do so politely and constructively.this may have some synergy with another idea i posted regarding a change to warp core stabilizers"
"the purpose of hics was scrambling supercapitals. with this change, they could not do so. thus, i am opposed. also, i don't really care about blockade runners and their complaints. every strategy should have a counter that doesn't require jumping through ridiculous hoops, and hics countering stabs is a good example of this."
"hmm... that was unintended. perhaps the hic scramble could be \"hardwired\" such that they still scramble supercaps while still allowing the other changes?in any event, the main purpose of the change is to add a highslot tackle, modeled after the warp dis gen, that is usable my shield tankers. can we agree that is worth supporting?"
"as someone who does alot of trading i find it to be a pain in the ass when modifying buy and sell orders, so, to make it a little easier and less time consuming, i had the following idea;could we have a + and - button added to the popup box when you click to modify an order that increases/decreases the price you have set.thanks"
"increases it by what increment? it almost has to be 0.01, but that's utterly useless outside of jitawell, hubs generally fights. i think typing in a number is about the only way."
"i was thinking a seperate input field where you can type in what increments you want"
"issue:with the introduction of hictors - and with them a infinite point warp disruptor that works in lowsec - the cost-benefit ratio of warp core stabilizers has changed dramatically. whereas a transport pilot used to have to decide between fitting cargohold expanders, nanofibers for faster aligning and wcs for safety - each with its own advantages and disadvantages - the introduction of hictors has made wcss almost obsolete.proposal:i suggest adding another bonus to wcss - increased warp speed. this would benefit haulers by reducing trip time and give them some added safety while traveling since they would be moving faster at warp than their pursuers. it would also make hyperspatial velocity optimizer rigs more useful by adding a module that stacks with their effects. in all, it would give transport pilots more options and thus more enjoyment while making warp core stabilizers useful again.this may have some synergy with an idea i posted regarding a change to warp disruption field gens"
"a useless and counterintuitive buff on a module still effective against 95% of tacklers? i'll pass."
"i don't see how's it is a \"useless\" change - with, say, a 15%-25% boost in warp speed per module + rigs, an itty v might actually manage to boost its warp velocity by 300%. that would increase transport pilot isk/hr, and help them to evade opponents who might otherwise take advantage of a hauler's slow alignment speed to catch up with him at the next gate."
"we need a new sub-forum to show the minutes of each csm meeting, stickied and locked, so that we can just go there to see what's going on with the csm. currently tracking down the minutes for the meetings is quite difficult."
"i noticed in the game that it takes meany jumps to get anywhere, and though there are some major economic systsems that there is no major shipping lanes, no corperation owned galaxies/plantes and no interplanetary war. all of which would happen if there was ever to be a galatic civilizations and factions. just as on earth we have continetal war, for growing countries, to intercontinental war there should most deffinatly be interplantitary warfare. in implimenting interplanitary war you can provide nearly an infinte ammount of new game experience, new items, such as fake ships, blockading planets to whole systems of planets, player corperation owned planets, pvp battles for blockades and the like. first and formost in the initiation of this new warfare, you will need to first streamline the trade and shipping lanes. i have noticed that there are no definite shipping lanes between systems and galaxies, through to other factions. i propose that you execute a multi tiered system that will allow for faster travel between the outskirts of a region to its capital,wich should also be the economic capital of that region. i would suggest that you make classification tiers.tier 1 systems that are the outskirts,have a jumpgate to a tier 2 systemtier 2 systems, systems have military instalations to proctect from invasion from outlaying systems - jumpgate to tier 3, other tier 2, and tier 1, also from here you need to limit the jumpgates to tier 3 to only a few. this will cause a funneling effect, and the beginnings to shipping lanestier 3, about 3-5 gates to tier 2, no gates to tier 1, gates to other tier 3, and gates to tier 4. some defence around tier 2 gatestier 4, contains the capital economic hub, and has gates to all tier 3.now the jumpgates between the tiers may jump across multiple galaxies, thus you would need to desighn a new gate.after this feature has been implimented, you can then in the tier 1 systems need to provide a reason for their to be industrial ships, so i would suggest that you allow corperations to own and occupy these systems, there me an increased ammount of mineable astroids, planets that can bu occupied by corperations and such. if all goes right you should hive a feature that looks like a river delta, a main stream to the many branches it hasthe concepts for these can be seen in the blockade of starwars, the interplanetary war of the chorincles of riddick, and in general, any study of nation forming.this is not quite all of my idea, but alas i must goi will soon post on the interplanetary warcapsuleer michael curtis aka zolar vemail - ngrtype31h491@aol.comif you would like the long version or more details emial me"
"bravo for creativity. some tweaking required for application to eve cluster though.while i may not completely agree with your vision, i support the premise of more discussion on this topic. however, i believe related discussions are currently taking place at less of a 'macro' level than you've described here. in other words, you may have to re-think or further explain how your ideas will affect individual parts of eve for them to gain approval. please see forums: features and ideas discussion"
"i don't like this idea as it prevents you from having safe warp bookmarks to use as you exit the station"
"warning, large amount of text, bewarei know, i konw, it has been brought up a million times, but im goign to bring it up again, honestly, alot of people are saying that fw is going to die off unless there is a reason to capture systems other than bragging rights, there has to be an advantage somehowhere is a few ideas i had, and others have had as well:sentry guns / station guns fire on the enemy of the occupying force after 20 seconds enough for a battleship to align and gtfo , it would help get fights off of gates, i think it would be cool to fight over a planet, or in a full asteroid belt since no one mines in low sec, would be a nice change of scenery, and would also reduce lag, less people would want to be in an asteroid belt, due to problems like bumping into asteroids or whatnot, so it would flesh out battles alot more, that would be cool, instead of having a 100 vs. 100 fight on a gate, you could have like 4 or 5 20-25 vs. 20-25 battles throughout a system, and perhaps even more than that, i think system lag would be reduce quite a bit, as i said, you could have 150 vs. 150 fights, and there would probably be the same amount of lag as their might be in dodixie, which can be bearable i get this because while there might not be 250 people in dodixie all running missions, there might be 100 or so, but each mission has like 20 rats, or more and i think it is safe to say that 300 people fighting in different locations probably make less than, but at the most no more than dodixie does w/ all its ratsit would add a tactical challenge to fc's because they would split up their fleets in different locations, and move forces around the system to where they are needed, group a is getting its ass kicked so they send 3 or 4 people from group c that is pwning enemy group c to help out w/ group anot being able to dock up in a system occupied by the enemy its obvious isnt it? if someone has to go, they can create a safepot in like a minute or two, and log in a safespot, or they can simply log out of the game, and hope that when they re-log they dont warp into a pirate camp or whatever, it would provide a danger to being in a system thats not owned by you / your friends today on milita channel, a fellow milita was saying of how he was shot at by the minmatar navy while defending a plex or something like that in their space, they really need to make the militia's blue to each other, and make plexing inter-racial  i havent captured that many plexes, so sorry if this is wrong  but make it so, if the matar capture lets say tama or something like that, it would be captured for the gallente, and if the gallente caputred huola, it would be captured for the minmatar, ect, we are allies afterall, why cant we lend a hand w/ out getting shot at?this next idea is kidna crazy and complicated so sorry if it is, but here goes:i think they should make it so you can call for \"reinforcments\" in low sec fw systems, here's how it would work, each system has a static navy fleet in it for whoever occupies that system, something like maybe 6 battleships, 10 battlecruisers, 14 cruisers, 20 frigs, and 20 dessies, now, this fleet can be called upon to help w/ combat, lets say there is a gallente fleet of 10 vs. a caldari fleet of lets say 20, the galente are obviously outguned, sooo, people can call for npc reinfrcments, there would have to be a limit though, like an aegis cmmndr can call a larger portion of the npc fleet to their aid, than lets say a federation minuteman, but everyone can call them if they need, that way if the gallente are serisoulsy outgunned, they can all call for reinforcmnts, and their portion of the reinforcmnts would be called out to help, and so would whoever else who called for reinforcments, and it would build, depending on how many the fc asks for everyone to call, there would also be a limit, to like 2 a day at most, and agn, your rank would have alot to do w/it"
"and another thing, if there is a spike of call for reinforcments something like 20 people calling for reinforcments on the same grid, the entire npc fleet will spawn to that location, regardless if its a fleet of federation minutemen, because its obvious they need helpim not sure who could call what though, but i will try im going to use gallente milita ranks since im most familiar w/ themfederation minuteman - guardian lieutenant:when you call for reinforcments you get 2 cruisers, 3 frigs, and 3 dessies to come to your aidlieutenant sentinel - shield commander: when you call for reinforcments you get 2 battlecruisers, 2 cruisers, and 4 frigs to come to your aidaegis commander - major general: fwhen you call for reinforcments, you get 1 battleship, 3 battlecruisers, 2 cruisers, and 2 dessies to come to your aidlieutenant general - luminaire general:when you call for reinforcments, you get 2 battleships, 3 battlecruisers, and 2 cruisers to come to your aidok, it would work like this and could keep happeneing as long as the fleet is still there, and there are numbers to draw from, now, if the numbers run out, if a higher ranking general calls for aid, his call will be answered over someone of a lower rank if he needs itnow, another mechanic that would have to be put in would be one to prevent people from abusing it, you konw, like calling for a fleet of ships on a gate, so you could help lock down the system w/ npc's, no, that wouldnt do, ok, when the npc's spawn, assuming they dont die, if there is no enemy activity in their area lets say an area of 100km if there is no enemy activity in say 2 minutes, the npc's de-spawn and are healed a little bit, like their tank is recharged, and will continue to recharge as long as it isnt attacked, just like mission rats, now, of course the npc's are destroyable, you take a faction hit as if they were part of a plex, or it could be a set amount, battleships give you a -2% or something, battlecruisers a -1.5%, cruisers a -1%, frigs / dessies, a -0.5% ect. and give you sec increases for your faction, +1% per battleship, +0.5% for a battlecruiser, + 0.35% for a cruiser, + 0.25% for frigs/ dessies, ect, nothing to dramatic maybe even lower the nubmers even more than that, or make low sec navy rats even tougher to kill, since i guess i could see somone hunting for 50 battleships to kill for a full 10.0 w/ the caldari navy or somethingyou cant scan down the navy npc's, this would prevent people from farming them for their tags which they would carry, or for standings whoringok, another crazy idea, but heard it on another thread, but changed it up a bit:ok, we all in fw know that you have that stupid ibis sitting on the gate, we all konw he is a freaking spy, but we cant pop him and his pod unless we are willing to take a sec hit for the ship and / or pod if your quick and sit out of the fleet for 15 minutes, basically, if your faction occupies the system, you can shoot anyone except fellow milita members, and your allies and you dont get the sentry guns on you, but you still take a sec status hit, if you shoot a milita member, you do get sentry guns, and sec/ faction hit personally, i think you should be kicked for shooting another milita member, but that is another thread for tomorrow, lol you konw the warning they put up when your about to enter a low sec system, maybe they could add to that message, and say \" . . . .warning you are about to enter a low sec system and concorde cant gurantee yoru safety there\" and then another warning after that if you have them on another warning could also pop up that says \"warning, you are entering a volatile warzone, and may be percieved as a danger to the empires fighting there, are you sure you wish to proceed?\" this warning would be another pop up after the low sec warning pop up, and it can be turned off as welli konw, the whole thing sounds like a far"
"far fetched, but they are ok/ good ideas, and would make fw a bit more bearable, and fun, and give more than just braggin rights, there is still the \"reward\" factor that needs to be decided as well, buuuut someone else can figure those out . . . unless i think of some first, lolalso guys, if you agree w/ most of the ideas, but not some of them, please still give the support factor, and tell me what you disagree w/ and why, and what could be done to make it better, i really want to save fw, it needs more \"depth\" and i love purging the galaxy of the rebellious caldari, and want to hopefully continue to do so in a few months, but if its starts dropping numbers rapidly, because there is no \"depth\" i wont be able to easily fight w/ them"
"normally i'm pro-wall of text, but you really have to proofread it and make it well-written for it to be bearable. as for your actual ideas, a few make sense, but most don't. npc reinforcements spawning seems counter to the whole methodology of fw, for example. i don't participate in it, so i don't know the merits of a lot of these suggestions, but on the whole they don't seem very good."
"ok, i can understand the reinforcment thing, as i said, that was probably the most crazy idea, but as the title points out, there need to be benefits to fw other than just bragging rights when you capture a systemthe sentry guns and station docking idea are all common on militia chat, because it is rather stupid that i can dock up in the state protectorate factory right on the border of caldari high security, and own like a stockpile of ships thereand the idea of being able to shoot anyone in low sec w/ out sentry gun fire, it was origianlly in another thread about how fw systems should all be anyone can shoot anyone w/ out any penalty, and i figured that was a tick to much, so i figured ok, your fighting for the state, the military will cut you some slack rp kicking in the military will cut you some slack because you shot someone who was more than likely a spy, you were defending your empire or something, so they arent going to have their sentry guns shoot you, buut, concord is the one that adjusts sec status, and you did shoot a neutral so you still lose sec statusit would just be a ton easier, to be able to shoot that dam person we know is a spy w/ out having to sit out of the fleet for 15 minutes and take a sec hit as well"
"how about a method of accessing the gate/station sysems, the 'docking control center' or 'jumpgate control center', and tell them to force the 'spy' neutral to warp to another object, or activate the gate and automatically jump them thru.if they're sitting on an fw complex gate they should be fair game, no sec hit, no aggression timer. just being on the grid makes them enemy to anyone from either faction party that warps to that gate.if they're at a station they get forcefuly docked and can't undock for 60 seconds, or they get warped to another station/gate. if they're at a gate they get jumped to the destination system, or warped to another station/gate.if this happens often enough the neutral is flagged as a hostile agent to the npc corp and the guns/police will start actively harassing them."
"im not entirely sure if this subject has be brought to the attention of csm or the devs before, but i'd like to see the option to be able to have your alliance and or corporation logo display on the hull of any ship you own/buy/produce.those who have played rts games like homeworld 2, would know that you have the option to upload images which in turn you can use as ship badges.yet i wouldn't know what kind of load this would cause on the server, and how to practically run the idea, i thought it would be a nice finishing touch to see the signifier of an alliance or corp painted onto the side of the ship models.. rather than just looking through show info.anyone else agree/disagree?"
"actually, as long as this was an optional display setting, it wouldn't cause that much lag for people with vaguely good connections. i imagine that the corp logos are sent as a single packet containing the settings for each of the options background, forground, decor, colours, etc, so it would not really increase the server load significantly.supported"
"yeah, would make a nice small addition.there is also something else i have noticed, not related to the topic of this thread, but would be interested to see if others noticed.im assuming everyone is familiar with the slighlt blue-ish shield effect around a shield tanked ship when the hardeners are active. im sure others have realised that when a shield tanked ship takes agression, the real time graphic shows the damage to be taken on the hull of the ship, not 'deflected' by the shield animation itself?would there be any sort of fix to this? i know im being picky, but im always fond of a sense of realism. :p"
"i like...../signedps: hw2 ftw"
"yeh the aliens are a bit clichem but hey these are only ideas the main emphasis would be to enhance exploration and it might be a way of adding storylines or lore."
"t2 transports aren't supposed to be bigger than t1, merely better. one has warp stabs, one has massive resists. admittedly, dsts tend to suck, which is why there was a proposal a while back to make them jumpable via black ops bridging, but bigger is not the goal here."
"fixed your post.my point was ecm was effectively removed as a utility module from everyone and given to caldari and mother ship specialized pilots.if strength and capacitor use along possibly with cpu were increased and ecm was made into more of a cruiser sized niche it'd improve a lot of ship lineups and give diversity to small gangs that fit out differant e-war. might need tweeking with the already specialized caldari jammer ships so the smaller versions can still use them effectively however, as is, there is no reason for non-ecm bonused ships to fit ecm. there would be more reason for smaller gangs to also incorporate remote sensor damps and gangs won't always be max speed / damage / tank / numbers.there will always been additional benefits for using the specialized versions but it adds a wildcard factor for cruisers and smaller groups."
"a stopgap thought comes to mind - get ccp to bring back proclamations. use it as your forum - even if you get a bit of player chatter, it shouldn't interfere with your public-but-closed-discussion-forum functionality. also, it'd let all the meeting results threads go somewhere instead of cluttering the assembly hall."
"not being funny or anything, but if i look at this forum and see which threads are on the first page by you they are1 streamlining the council for better communication with ccp2 redefining the chairman position3 what should change in the csm? 4 increasing transparency by streamlining communication.i can't remember seeing any of these issues in assembly hall so they appear to be personal issues raised by you rather than the general eve populace. the only one that seemed to get any measure of support was the 3rd one what should change in the csm, everything else seems to be about adding an extra layer of unecessary buracracy in an attempt to justify your position. even the thread which had the most responses/support the \"what should change in the csm\" thread was mostly about reducing timewastage by having the meeting as a voting meeting, with the discussions/proposals taking place before the actual meeting take place and that anyone asking for an explanation of the proposals is a complete failure of a csm for not doing their homework beforehand.i'm not sure what your campaign promise was, but at the moment it looks like your spending all your efforts on issues that are personal to you and which have little to no effect on the general eve populace as they aren't on the csm and mostly seem to involve changing how/what the csm is responsible for, rather than anything actually relevent to everyone else."
"well, i don't think you quite understand exactly what the purpose of those threads are. it's merely discussion threads. and i'm hardly spending all my efforts on it. since they are not in the assembly hallwhich is by design, i do not wish to raise them for the csm. you can call it fuss or whatever. but it's all just thoughts of minethough often based on community feedback, which i thought might be interesting to discuss. if there was broad support and consensus, it might be raised to the assembly hall. but that is a long way off.i have stood for the industry. and i have raised a ton of issues about that as well as other topics which has nothing to do with industry, but was a great concern for the players. i'm even working on more issues which i hope to get raised for our third meeting with ccpi have been busy over the last month, so haven't had too much time to write up issues. it's fairly likely that i will have a bunch of issues written up for our meeting in a bit over a week from now. i have a handful that just needs polishing.you will also see if you head over to the market discussion forum and have a look trough the forum, we have had extensive discussion about issues which has been raised by the csm as well as discussing the result of it. right now, one of the major things that the csm need to do, is to \"shape\" the role of the council and decrease player apathy. nobody else has taken on this task. so it is of course my intention with those posts, to try and gather feedback and get discussion on how to \"shape\" the council to the better. and i have gained tons of good feedback on it."
"call me a cynic, but anyone can put issues onto the assembly hall or come up with ideas good or bad.can you tell us how many successfully escalated isues you have managed so far?additionally, it might be helpful to list them as issues/ideas of your own, and those on behalf of others ie, adopted from assembly halltake care,arithron"
"i have raised 12 issues, some of which weren't posted by me in the assembly hall forum. every single one of them were successfully escalated.but what does that have to do with anything? do you want to compare e-peens or what? seems fairly damn silly to me."
"i like specifics....things like 'i have raised tons..' makes me nervous ;don't get me wrong, you actually discuss things in the forums and are doing what you said you would be. my concern with communication and the csm is not that the right tools aren't there, but that csm members wouldn't use them even if they were there. hence why i'd like to see a weekly issue meeting in addition to the voting meetings, so that discussion of current issues could occur and refinement of issues to be presented could occur.take care,arithron"
"fair 'nuff"
"read that again."
"hmm yea, i missed that. old eyes.sorry lia."
"i agree, they should just disappear. set amount of time, and just say that the pos since it was unfueled, fell into a decaying orbit, and eventually crashed into the moon."
"without any role in sov, sov-spamming pos's will be no problem.the issue i'm getting at is, if you cap a planet that has a nice moon and you want to go mine it, should you then have to blow up the pos the old boring way? what's the point of sov if you can't control what structures can be anchored at your planet?just trying to ensure the old pos system doesn't linger as an effective way to block moons. pos's are easier to blob, so if you cap a planet using -brilliant- tactics, you will be at much less of an advantage in the pos system. a blobby boring defender might choose to give up the planetary bases and just block the moons with their pos's and keep mining.the old pos needs to be subservient to the new planetary defense system. question is what's a good mechanic for getting rid of them?"
"in low sec and npc 0.0 it forces people to raise standing with npc factions to see who's in local, not fun. in deep 0.0 more pos stuff, bleah. not supported-"
"role specific ships and the ability to rent \"intel\". pretty sure he already said that.gives people the upper hand if its their home."
"nice idea, but i think you've gone far far too overboard discussing specifics. features and ideas is the forum of initial ideas and discussion. it is better to post there, discuss it, refine it, and get it in such a format to present here that already covers the ins and outs, and therefor comes to a straight show of support."
"i agree t2 ammo needs buffs, but it is still cheaper than faction ammo. production time is nice to talk about, but according to the market it doesn't seem to matter much."
"federation navy antimatter charges do: 55.2 damage-50% optimal rangevoid t2 short-range blaster charges do 56 damage-25% optimal-50% tracking-50% falloff+25% capacitor use.why in the world would any sane person ever use void ammo!? it gives a \"massive\" 1.45% damage increase over faction antimatter, but makes your guns miss every shot! there's just no reason to ever use it. heck, even if you don't run missions you can just buy faction ammo off a contract."
"it's significantly cheaper, does a tiny bit more damage, and has a better optimal. if you're expecting the target to be webbed down to nothing, void is actually significantly better than cnam on most fits. of course, expecting a target to be webbed down to nothing is a prediction that nothing whatsoever will go wrong, meaning it's a fairly dumb bet most people don't take, but it can be a good idea in a handful of circumstances. now, i agree that most t2 ammos need a serious buff of one variety or another. that's really not in dispute. but my point was just that added production time is not a concern, because if it was then it'd be reflected in the market price of the ammos, and it's not. void is cheaper, therefore it's easier to produce."
"incorrect by a huge margin.void is cheaper, and takes 500x the time to produce.cn antimatter small can be produced by the 10-15k lot in the time it takes to run 1 lvl 4 mission. producing a single run of void s, with a researched bpo, takes at least 4 hours.t2 ammos need to be un-nerfed in a big way, and/or made to be considerably distinct when placed side-by-side with non-t2 analogues. or...or, mind you:put nerfs on faction ammo!"
"wrong herschel. sell price reflect only what people is willing to pay.producing t1 ammunition with the same production slot can give better return sometime. producing quake l with a researched bpo give less than 900k day and searching for the best market in several regions. producing antimatter l with the same slot and selling it without even leaving the station give 1.140.000 day. 27% more isk with less work. as you can see the buyer dictate the ammunition price, not the seller, so the sell price is not influenced by the production time.edit: note with \"give\" i am speaking of the gain you make after all cost are calculated, not the raw isk you get from the sales. raw isk for the quake are approximately 2.400.000, for the antimatter 3.550.000."
"faction ammo is inline with other faction items, ie being the same stats as t2 but none of the drawbacks. faction ammo is also similarly much more expensive than t2 ammo.however, ammo is cheap, faction ammo to someone who pvps is very cheap, so the price doesn't matter. so you are basically using a t1 item and throwing around faction quality into it, thus obsoleting t2 short range ammo. even long range t2 ammo, the faction t1 has so much better tracking it is worth a look.i think most veteran players are a bit upset because it was long the standard that you need t2 weapons because t2 ammo is so awesome. a few nerfs later and faction ammo added and it is \"uhhh, where did my t2 advantage go?\" now i guess this is a boost for new players with lower skills, but the 2-10% spec bonus you get from t2 guns over t1 for guns that are harder to fit is what i get? hmmmmm, well at least t2 is cheaper.personally, i think faction ammo was given to be the star item when lp stores came out and possibly a boost to missile boats that usually shunned t2 ammo. not a whole lot of balancing was thought out when ccp released faction ammo, where are my republic fleet cap booster 800 charges and my faction dictor bubbles, come on i wants them."
"add true faction drones and not those things that come rarely from the drone regions."
"does anyone actually use damage t2 ammo? range, sure - but damage?"
"who defined \"easier\" as \"takes less time\"? there's a hundred other concepts that need to be considered, besides merely production time. most notably, opportunity cost - by producing faction ammo, you're giving up the ability to produce faction gear or implants. those tend to be less profitable, but not by too much if you look around, meaning the economic profit of faction ammo is not all that high. also, venkul, if antimatter produces more isk per day for less effort than quake, i ask what kind of ****** is still producing quake. antimatter bpos are dirt cheap, and it's not hard to switch over production. either sell quake for an economic profit, or stop making it - i have no pity for you whatsoever if you're inflicting an economic loss upon yourself to win back sunk costs."
"all t2 ammo needs to be balancedthe t2 high damage rage torpedoes actually do less than basic t1 torps, they have 600 m signature, -5% to cap regeneration across the ship and 100 m/s velocityonly javelin torps have clear advantage over cn torpedoes, 350 m sig, 50% more speed...but... cn torps with dual painters still do more damage to all targets, so i don't even bother with t2 torpedoes siege launchers ii + cn navy torps ftw"
"if you think faction ammo is so profitable, go grind that.t2 ammo has specific uses, for general use, use t1, and faction if you can afford.t2 does has never meant best possible item."
"i agree. but at least the naglfar isfreakinvertical!"
"possible solutions to citadel torpedo issue1. citadel torps before/after siege cycle do 0 damageto prevent the \"fire and hide\" exploit, add a piece of code in the siege module to disallow entering siege mode inside pos shields, and fix a dread's location in space to disallow bumping back into pos after \"siege & fire\". there is no point entering siege mode in a pos anyways.for the similar modules, changes can possibily be done too. who enters triage mode in a pos shield? similar changes can be done but there is no much point doing it. the industrial core is fine as it is, just leave it 2. citadel torps easily destroyed by smartbombsmissile destruction should be in the domain of defender missiles, leave smartbombs out of the equation, they are for drones & fighters.the simple solution to this is simple ooops! - increase the hp of all missiles by 10 folds- increase the damage of defender missiles by 10 foldsthis will allow the defender missiles to do its job while leaving missiles close to unkillable to smartbombs. smartbombs won't be affected as they can still kill drones and fighters.these issues affect 2 out of total 4 dreads in eve and possibily those who decide to mount citadel torp launchers on their titans, please get this fixed or at least gives us a reply asap.just my 2 cents- milia jenius"
"/signed"
"100% support to citadel torp hp boostbtw, it only takes 2 \"named\" smartbombs to pop a sieged citadel torp, last time i was playing around in sisi i was able to completely block out phoenixes by just cycling 2 smartbombs and taking out the torps as they came "
"the bo's were made to be a pvp ship/ pls for the love of all that is holy just make them into a pirate dream ship. whats the worst that can happen? they dont have the dps to stand up to a normal fleet, so they pretty much are a niche ship. unfortunatly ccp decided that people using them to jump 25 ly to go gang **** miners was a bad idea so we are now stuck with gate camp running ships.you want to bring back the pvp into eve. these ships need to be put into combat and not have to bring a freighter along to do it fuel wise \"noah ccp indicated that ccp was aware that battleships with jumpdrives would become the ultimate ship, and to this end black ops ships were pre-nerfed.\"as they are now they are the ultimate joke.they need 1. bonus set on skills to jump range. no more than 4-5 systems, but make them consume less fuel2.t2 ship needs t2 resist. 3. cloak while warpingim a little onesided in my veiws as i want them for jumping past the dual mom camped system and make a beeline for where my target is mining, fleets dont need these and probaly wouldnt make great use of them unless they could go past a cyno jammerbut im sure a few pirates could come up with a few ideas about using them"
"absolutely!"
"do the above so, we can effectively do the below : now they will have purpose."
"nerf is rather tarded to put it inna civil way."
"great idea, i want to see my capitals go <--- way, my bs/bc go ^^^ way and my other ships go ---> way."
"they didnt even bother speaking about itin the csm"
"yes! this would be awesome! i can totally see it now...warp to initial beacon in a belt.siege into \"megamaid\"use smartbomb pulses to vaporize every rock in the belt. takes about 2min.use sweeping tractor beams to gather ore back into the 500,000,000 m3 hold.return to base./sarcasm"
"not supported!i will never support chribba. he represents all that is wrong with carebears!"
"u4 was great when gf lived their people did missions because their was to much competition for rats. it is also npc space so you can do missions but remember a whole lot of us live in the supposedly lucrative player controlled space that does not have missions."
"well, of course it's based on my experience and that of other people. it's also based on maths. a good system below -0.5 gives rats with bounties varying from 200k - 1.5 mil. if you are by your self in such a system with 10 belts you should be able to clear each belt about once an hour. let's say each belt gives you on average 3mil, that would give you 30mil an hour. this is in a good system with no competition and with no interruptions. now, let's add those. we'll throw in just one other ratter. that effectively halfs your isk/h. so, with maths and common sense i have shown why 0.0 ratting generally meaning unless you're lucky is worse than level 4 mission running.if you took it as uncontrovertible fact without exception you're pretty stupid. just saying. everything has exceptions.no, it's not an argument as in these debates most of the people arguing against the nerf pipe up and say \"but all i wanna do is run missions\". again, the general mass seems to enjoy mission running. you're the exception.the holes in my position is made up of exceptions, several of which you happen to be part of. i'm not saying you're lying. i'm just saying you're extremely lucky.i did not present my statement as an absolute. you took it as such in order to be able to pick it apart. i have provided said proof.no, you nitpicked on parts of my arguments, never managing to refute a single one. good going."
"i noticed you also cleverly assumed that all mission runners have no understanding of the directional scanner, or of how to survive in lowsec. the only time i have ever lost a ship to plexing in lowsec the closest thing to missions i do there, is when i forgot to keep my scanner open. even then, it took 5 ships to kill 2 dominixes pve fit, and we killed one of their falcons. net loss for us, approx 80 mill my friend was rigged. net loss for them, approx 100 mill. even assuming that the mission runners get caught - you will probably be dealing with at least 2 pirates per mission runner kill 1 to probe, 1 to kill, probably more. also, the idea of flying a golem without adequate scanning ability is frankly laughable, and they deserve to be out of pocket by several hundred mill.just one little hint - you might not want to fly officer fitted cnrs in lowsec."
"only goonswarm showed support so the whole topic is bull****"
"i'mnot goonswarm and neither are most of the other people supporting this. maybe you should start arguing the issue instead of calling names? might bring more light to your cause."
"bad idea.thumbs down.not supported. if you're gonna buff lowsec and nullsec then fine.if you nerf high sec, then eve loses lots of subscribers - bad for game development and bad for the future of eve."
"the op is an idiot and did not do a single lvl 4 mission in his life. just another stupid goon idea posted just because \"they can\". let's nerf trading and production and invention and oh... moon mining. those activities are no risk as well. but who cares ? the avarage lvl 4 mission yields about 10-15 mil/h in a normal ship up to 25 mil per h in a uber fitted faction ship. but then again the op is a goon how can he know ?what is more nerf missioning and what you end up with ? more miners because it's the second choice for making money with the patter of investing your own time to make isk. also a thing brought by many others. lvl 3 in low sec? who will do them ? lvl 4 yield too little money to be profitable in low sec not to mention lvl 3"
"one of the main problems with these arguments are that no one considers the focus of empire, low-sec, and 0.0in my view, empire is geared towards solo or small groups, low-sec towards bigger groups, and 0.0 is geared towards large corporations/alliances. that isn't to say that these are the only types of play that can work in those areas, but that certain types of play are just more suited to different areas.balancing the income of 0.0 ratting and mission running is a great concept, but it avoids the idea that both are solo activities, while 0.0 is a group oriented endeavor. to truly compare profitability, you need to look at scale. 1000 mission runners banding together in empire will only make 1000x as much. there is no increase on return. 1000 pvp pilots banding together in 0.0 will not only get the same potential income from ratting, but also significant increases in corporation/alliance income due to moon mining etc with much more logistical support required.overall, the potential for profit per person is much higher in 0.0 when corporation funds are included in the calculation. leave mission runners alone. casual mission runners spend a bit of time here and there, and most of it goes into pimping out their ship. this is good for the economy, as it increase volume of trade and gives 0.0 people a source for their t2 market and faction mods. removing level 4s will just move these people down to level 3s. they won't suddenly decide to alter their playstyle and move into low-sec or 0.0 in great numbers.there are some people that relentless farm missions, and some of them do it for isk/money conversions. does anyone honestly believe that removing level 4s from high-sec will have any effect on them? they'll just move to low-sec and accept the losses, or \"rent\" space from an alliance in 0.0 to rat."
"lp is all ready rewarded in missions. however, the missions don't do crap so it goes un-noticed."
"some more benefits with missions having an impact:plexing gives you a pretty good boost in standings, which is shown by rank.a higher rank means a higher agent, resulting in in more vp's for a mission; making the rank actually useful.maybe make militia agents a little harder to get to make skills and such less of a factor?"
"more scrambling rats in fw missions and a bit higher rewards. them beeing in low-sec with a beacon to warp to hardly constitutes as carebearing / risk free isk."
"mining needs attention ... some more ideas1 rigs: except the drone rig, there are no rigs that improve mining.for mining rigs, there are three possible versions:a rigs that reduce the duration of the cycle. for example reducing the time by 4% for t1 and by 7% for t2 lead approx to 4.2% and 7.5% more yield per minute.b rigs that improve the yield directly.the side effect of the rigs should not affect cpu and powergrid. maybe one could use side effects of cargohold optimization.c rigs that increase the range of miners both strip miners and normal miners.advantage: more diversitydisadvantage: also useful for macro miners2 e****ent: add a laser upgrade reducing cycle time for ore, and laser upgrades increasing the range of miners both ore and ice. the advantage and disadvantage are the same as above.3 ships:exhumers ... best mining ships ... form my point of view no need to change that.however, what about a commando barge?there are commando ships that support their gang via links and provide some dps.why is there nothing similar for mining? field commando barge: e.g. hulk with one gang link instead of the third strip minerrequired skills: exhumer lvl5 maybefleet commando barge: three gang links, no miners, but big cargoholdrequired skills: transpost ships lvl5 maybethe rumored orca might fit into that rule ... who knows ...both of course with a nice drone bay field 50m3 and fleet 25 m3 and amatching bandwidth. in addition, a decent tank to be also useful in low-sec and 0.0.capital mining ships ... should not be useful for mining asteroids or ice ...maybe some moon mining ships?of course with far less yield than a pos moon mining array.as i said just some ideas since you're gonna be the one that has to talk to ccp.let me know if you want me to elaborate the ideas.cheers,van"
"many of you seem to take macro mining into their consideration.why is macro mining such an issue?i know the roids are gone and the 'real' miners can't find anything.but that is just the symptom ... not the cause.for example, i can also run at least some missions while being afkmost of the time. i know that experienced mission runners do thisalso in several level 4 missions.what is the difference between macro mining and afk missioning?besides the fact that macro miners have to use a third party programand ccp might harm them because of that, there is one big difference:missions are an unlimited resource in contrast to ore.a possible solution: provide more mining agents so miners may accessthis unlimited resource. of course, the missions should fit thedesire of the clients and that is mining so less courier and kill missions.btw to protect myself from angry afk mission runners comparingthem with macro miners i decided to create an alt for this post."
"agreed. in fact the whole mining/research/industry/exploration/invention nexus could do with a thorough review."
"i support the \"increased\" love of mining as far as attention to the needs of miners.but honestly.... if your afk'ing or macro'ing.. you deserved to get can-flipped/ganked/killed.no offense... but when i'm mining.... i'm paying attention to the screen... ok so i read a book or use my second computer to check my email but still.. i'm never away from my computer or i have someone watch my rear end.yeah its boring.... but the whole point of mining is patience and a bit of effort... not to mention a bit of luck.i do think the armor on miners is way to weak.... you could kick the darn thing and punch a hole clean through it. cargo space is a bit lacking as well.but if there was a way to increase defenses and or allow for more drones..... would be helpful.too many people prey on miners.... and whats really sad is they don't hardly make any money at it..yet they continue to do it... at least in high sec. i mean... you make more in a level 4 mission or mining the whole lot yourself then you would in can tipping"
"we've been talking on vent, and we decided it would be a good idea to be able to sort targets on the overiew not alphabetically, but by the value of the letter as stated in scrabble.thank you for your time."
"one of the best ideas that has hit the hall, i believe that this could truly enhance the game."
"i support this and would like to subscribe to your newsletter."
"i support this idea.please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"full support!"
"i second this would make things simpler"
"/signeddefinately support this, i cant hardly find my targets without a decent organised method of sorting my overview"
"i give my full support this idea!"
"doesn't make a difference to me as im still a 1 veto combo breaker"
"this is an excellent idea, i've always have been looking for a way to do this."
"best idea ever."
"support"
"i'm mooya aery and i approve this idea."
"i support this idea, but only if spaces count as 2."
"this is definately something everyone in eve will benifit from. this will allow us to now search by someone's point value of their name in scrabble.in fact, killboard's could even have their points distribution done by that was well."
"sounds good to me!"
"that and the implementation of toilet paper are probably the best 2 ideas ever!"
"support this"
"support of course."
"tripple word score ftw"
"yarr yarr"
"sounds like a good idea"
"8 letter, triple word score win!can i have your babies?*edit, i fail at scrabble"
"i think i'm going to have to veto this one."
"sure, lets have a statement from the devs. i mean one way or another it will turn into a massive whine! so i am all for it."
"i say go for the price in whichever order was placed first."
"another superb idea... keep talkin fellas"
"this thread is a perfect example of why \"just fix it already!\" threads are stupid when pointed at complex topics. you identify a problem, and none of you have a damn clue about possible solutions. and every attempt to put up an idea off the top of your head that's supposedly better than the status quo has been some combination of pointless, counterproductive, unworkable, or just plain moronic. yes, pos warfare and 0.0 have problems, but a thread telling ccp to drop everything else and work on it is not the solution. come up with a solution, or stay out of the way of those who are."
"look at the link i posted above about the threadnought on the pos discussion, there are plenty of suggestions there so theres no point re-tlaking about them here. this is more a \"support if you want pos system changed already!\" postedit: typo"
"this is exactly the problem. i think the system needs changing, but i can see a whole lot of possible changes happening that would be worse than the status quo. it's the old problem of \"be careful what you wish for, you might just get it\" - i don't just want pos warfare changes, i want it changed for the better. since it's a decidedly non-trivial task to define \"better\", i think it would make far more sense to debate individual proposals, rather than make a petition for the one part of the debate that everybody does agree on that gets us absolutely nowhere on its own."
"well yeah thats true, but i hate it so much that i simply must b*itch about it..and i really dont think they cld change it to make it much worse anyway..lol famous last words.."
"cheers to the above.i would still like to see the use of covert-ops cloak module pushed again."
"i support this idea"
"until they fix the war dynamic corp jumping, alt workarounds, ect ect no proposal will make war work at all.if you're at war with me in amarr i just have my neutral freighter trade the goods i had him hual in and put them on the market as per normal, no muss no fuss on my part and you can't do squat to my freighter... his goods won't pay for your gankfleet even if you did recover 100% of it."
"ok it gets a thumbs down from me as any posts suggesting forces people to to move area's is never good, but i am down with the teamwork idea.but just a slight change to you idea...how about we put level 5 missions to the place were the majority of mission runners are in high sec, now i cant pretend i have read all the replys and it may have been said before so sorry for reposting.as for csm's i dont think any mission runnner thinks they speak for them, the 1 csm that did say she was going to put the veiw of the mission runnner on the council blew her chance with her how to nerf them, the first csm to answer this post was also pro nerfor balnce as we sometimes call nerfs.ok so the basic of my post are simple if the op truly wants team play then movoing lvl5 agents to high sec will yeild that result and fast.csm do a wonderfull job for everthing except mission stuff and next election time we can vote a few pro mission runnner types."
"there are also people that have a more casual / roleplaying style of gameplay . they just don't want to pvp... they want to train up skills and keep on getting better ships with better fittings and they have fun doing that.sure there are also mission farmers , but thats an exeption ....if you force the more casual players to pvp area's / eleminate the thing they enjoy . there are a few things that can happen.they quit the game.they go and have fun pvping.they become miners.they become 0.0 ratters.....just let people that don't want to pvp stay in the relative safety of highsec...most of the 'move missions to lowsec' talk is , and be honest, just people that want to kill mission runners .... so no support .no and i am not a mission runner , in fact i hate 'em "
"that's a fair point, but actually i think the best thing we could do for such people is break the linear frigate -> cruiser -> bc -> bs -> faction bs -> officer fit faction bs path -> what now? path.missions badly need reforming, not just to fix the \"isk fountain\" effect, but also to fix the fact that they're incredibly unimaginative, repetitive and predictable. where is the level 4 mission that requires using a dictor to catch a fugitive? where is the level 4 mission that requires scanning or probing skills? where is the level 4 mission that requires a cloaking ship? interceptors? blockade runners?no, they're all huge dps-based bountyfests.nerf mission isk. boost mission rewards in lp, items, variey and fun.in the missions that are dps-based cause we all like to blow stuff up, right? the legions of dumb, weak, rules-ignoring npcs should be replaced by many fewer, smarter, realistically-fitted ships that use speed, transversal and ew. oh yeah, and don't all have the same resist hole and ammo type."
"the most sensible route would be some kind of rationing system: whether a daily cap, or some sort of sliding scale of \"agent availability\" or something of the sort that prevents the blitzers and farmers from grinding up very high amounts of isk, but at the same time allows the more typical mission runner who is typically the casual player enough missions to earn isk and stay interested in the game. nerfing mission rewards by half or something like that will simply drive the mission runners from the game, period. it's not so simple to say: hey, why does the isk matter, you like running missions, right? isk matters because this is eve online. isk is what allows you to progress in this game, to do more interesting things, fly more interesting ships. a mediocre isk return for mission runners which is basically a thinly veiled attempt ot ghettoize them would simply drive many of them away from the game.i am not a mission runner myself. while i run a level 4 every now and then, i find them boring and repetative, and i find the market a much nicer way to make a lot of isk. but for certain if you monkey with missions in a ham-fisted way as some of the posters have been suggesting namely, by either whacking the income from them by half or more, or removing level 4s from high sec in toto, all you will achieve is driving a good number of the casual players from the game. perhaps that's desirable a lot of eve players simply despise the casual carebears, we are adult enough to be honest about that, aren't we?, but if it's the desire, then we should be up front about that with ccp and the csm."
"you're bitter you've been scammed, and you think that whining here will make up for your lac of common sense? sorry, it doesn't work like that.also, you seem to think that someone who plays 2 hours a week should get the same isk as someone who plays 20 hours a week? it doesn't work like that either!finally, tbh, if nerfing missions gets rid of people like you, that's just darwinism in action"
"this is a bad idea.big thumbs down.no point in re-stating the arguments against it.nerf l4s or move them into low sec and eve will lose players. eve will lose lots of players, and i will most likely be one.people will have a harder time making isk to buy timecards. people will have a harder time funding their pvp ships so less pvp.people will leave so less pvp.;"
"for those who have too much rewardcan i have 100 mill per day and not do an missions at all?do you have a slightest idea how contested 0.0 is? even if you have full blue system, people will be chaining belts day longdo you want 0.0 to be the only option in eve? so that all hi-sec population moves to 0.0 and starts chaining belts?this idea is inspired by rubbish thoughts... one of them is 'omg, let's nerf carebears'"
"your entire post reads like support for nerfing high sec, until your last two lines."
"risk vs. reward and supply vs. demand in missions is non-existant.i'd like to see it that agents have a given 'pool' of missions they can give out each day. like maybe50 of mission1100 of mission225 of mission310 of mission41 of mission5that way, when you do it mission it's removed from the pool for that day, but stays in the pool if you refuse it. this way there's competition in missioning.i mean, all the dev are always on their kick of \"anything you do in eve is pvp, because you're competing with someone else for limited resources.\" and for the most part, they're right - except for missions."
"timezones!!!!how dumb are you?if you ration missions like that, then the players who can play immediately after downtime clean up, and everyone who comes online later gets nothing.my guess is that you either have no job, or you live in a timezone where 11:00 gmt is primetime for your playing habits."
"the pool of missions can be filled gradually through the day to avoid that."
"well, it's already how they do it for npc trade goods which are used by players to make isk.so, if it works for one npc controlled isk faucet, why not the other, too?"
"no, he's complaining about a carrier using a safespot that's significantly harder to probe out, due to the way missions specifically deadspace work."
"thats what i call a smart pilot."
"i really dislike the kinetic missile damage bonus and a lot of eve players really hate the fact missile users can swap damage types.here's my solution, make missiles racial. the base damage of a missile should be kinetic, which would in terms of fluff, be the damage afflicted on a target by the missile slamming into it. secondary damage would be based on the type of missile.caldari: purely kinetic damage. 100% kinetic.amarr: 70% kinetic / 30% emminmatar: 70% kinetic / 30% explosive gallente: 70% kinetic / 30% thermalcould base damage, explosive velocity, explosive radius, max velocity, flight time, ect ect also be racially flavored? well it certainly could but it might be hard to balance.so there you go, all missiles would deal kinetic mostly, no need for a damage bonus for only 1 type of missile. secondary damage on each missile would add flavor but not be overpowered, the rest of the caldari lineup could be uplifted to where they don't look so damn awful compared to ravens. now no one can really complain that ravens can pick any damage type, as they will now mainly be doing kinetic no matter which missile they use.missiles are now a mainly kinetic based weapon as kinetic is the racial damage type of the caldari.problem solved?"
"ummm errr... as described by their own description, missiles have a warhead, they do not \"slam into their targets\" for their main damage. i think you have them confused with balistic type of weapons."
"okay then a purely kinetic missile causes its damage from gravitons shreddding the ship apart, who cares.. you are arguing fluff.."
"yes i am arguing fluff, because your whole idea is fluff."
"um...suck it up? missiles and turrets are different."
"if they want to argue over us caldari getting to choose our damage type then tell them to fit a few defender launchers and a gun or two and see who does more damage. we get to pick damage but it comes at a price."
"abaddon, pretty please with sugar on top?"
"i fully support this idea, and always have. i'm honestly surprised ccp hasn't done this yet, as it is a ridiculously easy way to make money, assuming the models are good looking."
"yes."
"giving lps should be a new feature, but only to members of your corporation.this prevents macros from exploiting it as they are vulnerable to war-decs if in a corporation, and addresses the op's concern.as for standings, an option to sever your relationship with a faction set it to 0, should be possible."
"not really, no. mid slots are tackle gear and ewar, low slots are damage and fitting, and both are usable for cap or speed. shield tankers get the short end of that particular stick, to some extent, i'll agree, but i don't see it as crippling. remember, a lot of armour-tank ships cannot fit all their pvp gear - you want web, scram, mwd, and injector, but a whole host of ships - geddon, thorax, etc. - only get 2-3 mid slotsor 1 in the case of the poor retribution, meaning they are wholly incapable of fitting a proper set of pvp gear. i would think this change would make their lives easier even more so than it would for most shield tankers."
"i doubt that. while it might make, say, a vexor or myrm pilot's life easier since their primary source of damage is drones rather than highslot turrets i think most pilot's would find the stiff requirements and loss of a potential weapons slot too unendurable. furthermore, i can't think of many pilots would choose a highslot, more cap consuming, more cpu filling, higher sp requiring and shorter ranged version of the current warp disruptor unless they had to - i.e. unless their tank depended upon it. i really think that this is a solution that could solve many of the problems associated with bringing a highslot tackle into the game namely that passive shield-tanked drakes and the like would become the best pvp ships in the game by forcing shield-tanking pilots to sacrifice a lot in order to gain a tackle."
"hics can scramble interceptors and it is badhics can scramble everyone and it is badhics only need to scramble supercapshics must not scramble sub capital ships with infinite points"
"can i make a suggestion?take the current focusing script and split it in half. version one only works on capitals and gives the infinate strength required to hold a msversion 2 works on anything and gives a 4 - 8 point scramble. adjust as needed to keep the useability of the hictor.i do agree that the blockade runner industrials should be able to run and therfore recomend setting the version two strength to 1 point below the lowestraces maximum blockade runner strength.this would allow blockade runners to escape 1 hictor while sill being f***ed by two or more.ps i do not fly these ships but i have been screwed by them in the past, this system still alowes them to mess with any combat capable ship."
"at that point, just type what the amount you want it to be is. in other words, the status quo."
"what they need is a 'my orders' tab you can drag out of the overall market interface.you should get a market order status popup when you hover over your order.so, for example, you're selling scorch s in amarr at 95k, which is currently the lowest market. you mouse over the scorch s order and a second or two later the following box hovers over that order:selling: scorch ssystem: amarrcurrent orders:--lowest 95399.99 youthis lets you know that your sell order is currently the lowest in the local system. you should be able to broaden this to regional as well.and when someone trumps your order you see:selling: scorch ssystem: amarrcurrent orders:lowest: 95399.98yours: 95399.99 -0.01 iskor, with buy orders, same effect.buying: scorch ssystem: amarrcurrent orders:highest: 53400yours: 0.1 +53399.9 iskthen you can just r-click the relevant order and select 'modify', which pops up the current adjustment window but with all of the current info displayed as described above."
"noi find the current way just fine, and have no problem updating hundreds of orders quickly and correctly.if anything i think your proposed changes would make it even easier for a bot to be intergrated."
"your absolutely correct in what you say, it would make it easier to integrate bots. however, the thing is the market is full of bots. jita a prime example where certain characters are logged in 23 hrs a day constantly able to keep up with price adjustments.they play the 0.01 isk game all day long making it a pain modifying orders and damn right impossible to keep up with anything over 50-60 orders is for me anyway.this feature would in my eyes balance out the advantage the market bots have over us honest folks, making it just as easy for me to undercut as quick as the bot does..."
"gtfoj...and when have two wrongs ever made a right?"
"you spend 10 seconds accelerating in warp and 20 seconds decelerating, no matter how far you fly. aside from freighters and a handful of gargantuan systems, warp speed is almost irrelevant. if the change i've heard mentioned a few times of having warp speed changes also affect warp acceleration times this might be a better buff, but for now it's useless. also, i'm not convinced stabs need buffing anyways. you should hear my pirate friends whine about those things."
"as a pirate, i have to say that if your pirate friends can't pop a t1 hauler before they are able to warp, they are doing something terribly wrong. the way i see it, t1 haulers fully and effectively fitted mind you should be able to escape from 1-2 pirates provided they aren't in hictors. blockade running transport ships should probably be able to escape from 3-4, or 1 hictor pilot. to everything a counter. currently, there is no counter to hictors in lowsec, and it makes sense that blockade runners would be exactly that.i strong disagree on the \"uselessness\" of the proposed change. i'd like to point out that warp isn't just \"10 seconds accel/decel and 20 in warp\" regardless of distance. while your accel/decel time is correct, the amount of time spent in warp is wholly dependent upon your warp speed - which for every ship in the game except interceptors and ppl who fit hyperspatial rigs is 3 au/s. interceptors get 6 au/s and if you've ever flown one or with one the difference is stark. a good interceptor pilot can watch an opponent go to warp as the interceptor enters the grid, align himself to that pilots destination and beat the ship there. on a 100 au warp, doubling your speed from 3 to 6 au/s will cut the time by a third shaving 10s. considering that haulers equip nanos in highsec for the sheer purpose of shaving 2-5s off of their alignment times, i would think that such a change would be one they would consider useful. that said, if ccp want to change the static accel/decel thing, even better."
"lol, you're doing it wrong. if you think there's a hic camping a gate, don't fit wcs. fit inertia stabiliser ii's, and if you're feeling crazy, polycarbs. i have run lowsec camps in an iteron with no wcs before, so quit your shining and come up with ingenious solutions."
"exactly what i said to them. but my point was that people always whine about the tactics opposed to their own - they have an expectation of being able to do as they please, and when a countermeasure foils them, they get annoyed. i'm surprised to hear you say that you're a pirate though - normally \"buff stabs!\" threads come from those trying to escape, not those trying to kill. not that i doubt you, but it's interesting. sure there's a counter - the t1 version of the same ship. a thorax ganks harder than a phobos and tanks almost as well, while costing 5-10% as much. i don't know about you, but a 50/50 chance of winning in a ship 20x as expensive is not my idea of a fun time. your numbers are wrong. 3 au/sec is battleship speed. cruisers get 4.5, frigates get 6, interceptors get 9combat or 13.5speed, and going the other way, carriers get 1.5 au/sec, and freighters get 0.75 au/sec. and my point was that in most systems, the distance traveled at full speed is not relevant. for a 20 au warp, which is a far more common distance, the difference between a battleship and an interceptor is 36 seconds vs 31 seconds, or about 15%. that's not a lot. i agree, interceptor warp speeds are nicei use an ares as a shuttle, and beating them there is good fun, but it's not an especially relevant stat in 90% of systems. and align time is wholly different than warp time. people want to align faster, because the time it takes you to align is how much time the opponents have to lock and scram you. people don't give a damn about warp times, because nobody can touch you mid-warp."
"you mean like this?granted ccp needs to hurry the flock up and get them posted quicker."
"if ccp would do it, i think we'd be perfectly happy to let them. since they have shown that they won't, we're going to need another solution. there should be a sticky in jpsc with links to all the chatlogs and minutes, and serenity should either update www.eve-csm.com or give access to somebody who will."
"uh, yeah like... but omg not in pdf? :just make a forum with them stickied, with links to the relevant topics broached in the meeting. a brief synopsis of each issue and the debate that occured concerning it would also be marvelous, but lock the status thread and send people back to the relevant topic threads to discuss the debate, vote, and outcome... or to just whine about impeaching a csm with too tight a personal agenda."
"from what i could glean from that post, i think half of what you want already exists and the other half shouldn't. you do not need to artificially \"tier\" systems, they do that on their own. you do not need to make systems ownable by corporations, because over half the systems in the game already are, and the rest shouldn't be."
"please search through the forums before posting a new idea. this topic has already been brought up. please give your support here"
"wrecks belong to two people:a - the person who made it.b - the victim who was just turned into a wreck.anyone else touching said wreck in any way = target.likewise scooping lost drones disconnects & unwarned gang-warps happen should flag the thief as hostile.currently the flagging system, coupled with latency, means that a can thief can if they're even half sober can align and warp off before they flag as hostile to the owner of the wreck."
"definately we need a dedicated exploration vessel, but one that can actually shoot & loot. currently the only ships that can do that very well are gallente due to their damage being drone-based, giving them the ability to fit tractor/salvage in highs, ab & codebreaker/hackers in mids, and still support a very fine armor tank in low.this is what we need.based on a bc hull t2 tier-2 bcs as dedicateds exploration boats?, much like their bigger cousins i.e. marauders.cald/amarr--> 4 weapon highslots +50% to weapons damage, 4x utility slots tractor/salvager/cloak.--> 5-7 midslots but with very stout penalties to fitting warp interruption devices to limit the ship's pvp ability.--> 5-7 lows for tank.min/gall--> 5-6 utility highslots, no weapon adjustments.--> mids/lows same.--> +50% drone damage/hp/range. 125-300 dronebay size. 75mb bandwidth.sensor strength & scanres very low.highly maneuverable, able to warp while cloaked.essentially, gimp the ship into the dark ages when it comes to being deployed as a pvp platform, but make it a very, very specialized exploration vessel.ability to either adjust warp speed 0.5 au/s up to its max, or select a fixed warp-range 5 au. this to enable the creation of mid-warp marks without wasting so much time doing so."
"doing anything to my stuff should get you flagged.looting the wreck i made or my own, salvaging same, scooping my drones if by some reason i warp off without them or crash, ect ect.touching my stuff should leave you vulnerable to my guns, period. and in 'ganks', touching the wreck if you're not in a: the killer's corp, or b: the victim's corp, should leave you exposed to concord in the same way the suicider was. nick from a suicide can without fulfilling a or b = concord response warp scrammed & webbed to a standstill, but no damage dealt, for 15 mins."
"i think csm are doing ok, i do say i have to admire jade's fight, all those anti jade posts, wich from the casual observer seem to have been an unhanded measure for somebody else to get the chair.cant say i got any time for ank person i voted for her and her carebear aspect, but she got cought up in the politic and lost her prinicibles.as a mission runnner i think no csm talks for the mission runner and hope they leave it of their chats with ccp.now the big thing this csm elective have done is opened the idea up that the idea could work, so i expect the next election and body to be a little more diverse next time, now my typing and lazyness will ever rule me out for applying but i do tend to galvanize the mission/pve vote next election and see if it can get 3 people on the board.to sum up...the idea has merits and this current board have done a good job in what are unknown waters, just back off missions csm."
"the problem herein is that t2 has been nerfed to the point that the disadvantages are too many to even consider its use.this is why even some pvp pilots fit t1 ammo in t2 weapon systems, because they couldnt be bothered to use t2 with the downsides, or couldnt afford faction ammo."
"boy, try to re-read your original post:i was proving that you were wrong as a help to you as you have stated in another thread that you are starting activity as an industrialist. helping you remove some wrong idea seemed a good thing to do. apparently instead you resent people that try to correct your wrong assumptions. continue your way, you will have a future as industrialist if you cling to the opinion depicted byt your first post."
"."
"supported"
"i never claimed t2 ammo does not take longer to produce - clearly it does. i claimed that, judging by the actions of industrialists, the added time taken by t2 ammo is far less relevant than the added costs of faction ammo. if the producers themselves don't care enough about the time taken to raise the prices above where they are now, why should i care on their behalf? i'm not a fanatic for the efficient markets hypothesis, but it's a pretty good first approximation, and thus i'll tend to assume that the price is set at the level which appropriately incorporates all costs, monetary and otherwise, borne by the producer. that may change if i get a whole lot of evidence to the contrary, but in that case my response will be to join the market and reap the economic profits, not to whine for a buff/nerf. i will agree that most t2 ammo needs a buff, but i will not agree that the buff should be in production time, since that looks to be basically irrelevant."
"while a boost in the ammunition efficiency would be good, making them more used, build time is not \"irrelevant\" as you think. look the build time: t2 large ammunitions 22+ hours before research and skills for 5k shots vs t1 large 4 hours 10 minutes for 5k shotst2 medium 11 hours+ for 5k shots against t1 4 hours 10 minutes for 5k shotst2 small 4 hours 20 min for 5k shots against t1 4 hours for 5k shotswhile the choice of keeping the same production time for all the kind of t1 ammunition is a strange one, the difference in production time for the large ammunition weight heavily on the returns. bpo checked: hybrid and projectile"
"signed."
"word"
"<- i joined the \"stopped at bs5 and got an alt to train for a rev brigade\". i always wanted a nag but if someone offers you a new bmw for 10k and a new astra for 12k you wouldn't pick the astra. i'd love to see the nid able to make good use of its rep bonus but the cap use hurts it. for the nag i like the idea of making it 4 highs 3 turrets 3 launchers, extra low. 5% torp and projectile rof + 5% torp speed/hp/etc and 5% projectile damage make the thing versitile weapons wise."
"i'm pretty sure that this would actually make the naglfar even worse than it is right now, and i'm trying hard to see what the rationale would be in the first place. you're losing a high slot and downgrading the bonus for citadel torps from 7.5 to 5% per level and gaining... what, exactly?"
"i believe he meant 5 high slots 4 turret/missile slots and the extra hp on the torps would help a bit, but capital torps need to be basically reworked anyway.what the nag really needs is a base +5% damage of torps + projectile per level and a 5% rof of torp + projectile per level. the 3 turrents and launcher spots would just be good for variety."
"/signed"
"yes yes 1000*yes.cit torps are failsauce with a bit of ccp-smoked-crack on top"
"signed."
"testing purposes? hell yes.the no.1 issue i have when ccp deploys upcoming ship/skill changes is that 99% of the time i dont even have anything close to the prereq's to even test the changes, thereby leaving me out of the loop and unable to give my input that could potentially be very very valuable."
"i think every week, say, monday-dt would be better."
"aye!"
"1. give black ops bs cov op cloaks. they can warp cloaked, but they actually lose speed. whoopie nano nerf will **** the panther anyway.2. give them crazy optimal range, but don't make them do much more damage than a t2 sniper. this would be ideal for 0.0. make it so they could safely engage from 200km+ sentry drone sin, sniper panther/redeemer, and give the widow an even further jam range or possibly give it rohk bonuses instead of raven-like bonuses giving them extra safety to mess with targets far away, but means little to nothing for pirates because lol npc stations.this might actually make them useful for small black ops gangs. they bring something those gangs usually need dps and can engage from far away giving them a nice buffer to get away. they're also easier to move, especially in hostile areas where these are meant to be useful."
"against."
"my slepnir won't kick ass anymore but then again i can finaly stop using nanos .speed tanks need some serious balancing , althou it's funny as hell seing a whole gang of idiots trying to shut you down while you blow them out of the sky 1 by 1but one a more serious note , when was the last time you tooks a armor/shield tannk over speed/dps . atm speed needs to be nerfed a bit . not suported ."
"snipers, rr bs gangs, capitals. so basically anytime we're trying to deny someone the use of a system or heavy defenses are present."
"nano ships these days are just tipping over the game balance, fun fights are no more.support nano nerf"
"definite support to even the field. while you're at it introduce constant acceleration so even a domi can get 15k mps after a minute. . ."
"nerf them. but keep the true speed tanking ships balanced. love my inty dont want it to end up in the trash can like so many others"
"suported .but don't over nerf my minnie babys"
"supported!"
"this is a pretty ill concieved argument. 1000 ratters in 0.0 will - unless their alliance own 1000 0.0 systems with true sec >-0.5 - make a lot less per person than 1000 high sec mission runners, who don't have to compete with each other because they have an unlimited resource in their agent. also, you can't count moon mining into personal income, as moon mining takes an entire alliance to operate. if you where to spread out said moon mining on an isk/person/hour basis, which you will have to in order to count it, you will get a lot less than what you get from counting it as a lump sum."
"yeah you're right, if there's one thing this game needs, it's to maintain - and increase, amirite? - the numbers of people in it who threaten to ragequit if their unfair advantage is threatened."
"i support discussing this poorly thought-out idea.what is the problem you are trying to solve? oh that's right, there is no problem, you're goonfleet and thus your only objective is to grief other players either through combat or through petitioning for needless changes to the game mechanics.as a mission-runner who occasionally engages in pvp, i can tell you that what i'd like to see is mission agents becoming lower quality and running out of missions as they're used more. this would encourage people to spread out from mission-running hubs, reducing lag and providing more opportunities for meeting new people.risk/reward shouldn't apply to grindfests. the rp reason for this is that mission-running and mining are jobs, where you have a stable, low level income in return for grinding away at the same tasks over and over again for days on end.if you think mission-running is too high a reward for the risk involved, why don't you go do some ninja salvaging? or why not start calling for a nerf to trading and hauling? i just made 20m isk while afk, hauling minerals back and forth across empire space.you guys in 0.0 space have so many cool ways of making money - why are you worried about the millions that mission-runners are making when you are pulling in billions?op is goonfleet, therefore is a dedicated griefer. this suggestion is simply a means of griefing by metagaming."
"i'm not talking about ragequitters. you can't do anything about ragequitters.i also dispute this \"unfair advantage\" that you're talking about. advantage over who?if i run l4 missions in high sec, how do i have any advantage over... everyone else in the game who can run l4 missions in high sec?do you mean advantage over those who don't like doing missions? in that case, miners have a distinct advantage over me, because i don't like mining."
"signed."
"."
"tech lab!"
"/supportedthe tech lab is a valuable forum resource, and shouldn't simply be removed."
"so you want to be the perfect example of \"sit on your arse and do nothing for 2 years while things get worse?\"its a discussion, and making it known to ccp that its a huge problem for alot of people, stifling entry into 0.0 for certain groups is extremely important.0.0 should be about combat and logistics, not hp buffers, lag, and boredum. things need to change out there to invigorate the player base, bring pvp prowess back to the level of utmost importance with respect to sov/space holding and not allow masochistic hp empires rule de facto."
"who ever said that? i've agreed that there's problems, and i've supported many of the proposals for fixing them. the thing is, i'll only support proposals, not the idea of going off half-cocked and doing anything to get some forum heat off of the devs. this is not an issue where there is a singular, clear way forward, and all that's left is to assert priority, it's a labyrinth and a hornet's nest both. there is no obvious path, and no matter what you do there's going to be hundreds trying to get under your skin and express their displeasure. make a proposal and i'll judge it, but i will not support flailing blindly.edit: stupid censorship..."
"a good idea but...no support?my flimsy 2 supports make me feel sad lol 1 of them was mine"
"i find the current probing mechanic to be dull and dumbed down. you simply drop your probe at an appropriate spot, click analyze and wait for a result. it has nothing to do with rl skill, and it has reduced probing to something anyone can do at any time, no matter their experience. it is a sad approach to something that used to be innovative and intelligent. sure, it wasn't perfect and it could use improvement, so here's an idea i've been toying with.disclaimer: the idea is fairly rough around the edges and could use additional input. navigation is an ancient art. navigation in space is little different than navigation on the seas, with the exception of adding another dimension. when fixing an object's relative position you do so by triangulation. it is a question of taking a bearing to said object from three different positions and then use this information to fix a position. you get the exact position on the xyz axis. of course, you don't have to use three bearings. you can determine a good position using only two. you can also use more than three for a more exact fix. it's not complicated, but it requires some thouroughness to get as good a fix as possible. please see figure a for an example.using this in eve is a bit more complicated, but by no means impossible.method for probing:in order to probe someone down you will need at least two, preferrably more, fixes of the target's position. you get these fixes by using your directional scanner. the scanner is reworked to a 360 degree direction finder where you can read information and apply it to your solar system map. the map gets an additional tool, a layer if you will. this is a draft of how the layer might look. the layer allows you to draw lines and circles onto the screen, giving you lines to work with. when you have one fix, you warp to another place in the system and take another fix. now you have the target's position in two dimensions. for an accurate fix, you will need one more fix. on your solar system map you now have three lines. where these lines intersect, you will most probably find your target. you now right click on that spot on your solar system map after using the new zoom system to make your click as accurate as possible and warp to the spot. if your fix is accurate enough you will have found your target. otherwise you have to start again, this time having a better idea of where the target is.who can do it?well, everyone can. however, in the interest of keeping ships in their intended roles, only specialized ships will provide the tools. you can still do it with a regular ship, but without the mapping tools it's going to be very difficult.what about in game skills?skills can be translated to accuracy when measuring bearing. for instance, a higher skill level can translate into a more accurate directional scanner. the point is, in game skills should play a part, but rl skills should be what's really needed.now, there are problems with this idea. probably a lot more than i can think of right now. that's where i need input. for example, should the same accuracy apply to ships in deadspace as those that are not? should signature radius play a part? should there be some kind of warning that you are being triangulated like scanning for probes today? thoughts please."
"interesting idea. but i'd rather see some tweaking of the existing system, rather than a complete replacement of it.like, currently scan time & random scan return is a giant pain in the arse.i'd rather the system be a little less \"sit and stare at a timer counting down\" intensive and more player-skill intensive.perhaps make probe placement more important and make the random part apply more to scan deviation, perhaps even to the point of returning multiple random scan deviations some of which might be false.this would make probe placement & multiple probe types more important that just \"sit here for frikkin' even and hit 'new scan' 'analyze' over and over till it works\""
"as many drone masters are aware, there is nothing more frustrating than losing a drone to a rat. how about some color coding in the overview such as:red: you are targeted and being shot at.yellow: you are being targeted.green: your drones are being targeted.orange: a drone flashing orange is under attack."
"just keep your drones window open, see if they're going down in hp. if they are, reel them in. i like the sentiment, but this is way too narrow a change, and it'd interfere with the ability to add more useful information to a part of the ui that is already exceedingly information-rich."
"as h.y. points out, the feature you're suggesting is already more or less in the game in the form of the shield/armor/hull hp bars of your drones in the drone management window.when there are a lot of things on my overview, the colors get screwy... i see planets and stargates as red when there are more than 15 enemy ships/drones on grid and they start dying.when sharing my l4's with corpmates who need help getting their standings up higher with the npc corp, sometimes i'll broadcast targets for aggro management to make sure the rest of a room doesn't get pulled and we'll see the target symbols persist after the targeted npc is destroyed, the symbol merely transferring to some other rat on the overview so that when i broadcast the next target there is conflicting information on the overview.adding more crap for the overview to keep track of would do more harm than good with the way it currently works, in my opinion.i'd say it was just client lag on my end if it didn't happen to corpmates as well."
"i have heard from various sources that there isn't going to be a next alliance tournament. there has also been a lack of word from ccp itself, so it would be nice to know if they plan to continue this awesome and unique aspect to the game or whether they plan to scrap it completely because it costs too much. also if it costs too much would they be willing to discuss various ways of still running it?"
"look herefor someone who claims they're so smart, wow, i mean wow."
"fanfest tourney =! tourney we've had every year ingame. look just because your bitter we kicked your arse and you're a terrible fc is no reason to bring it here. ty"
"delete, please... it was a very bad idea"
"so what you propose is npcs putting bounties on the heads of players, as a mechanism to make piracy more valuable? i'm not sure i like that - mixing pvpshooting people and pvegetting paid to blow ships up with such abandon seems like a bad idea. also, requirements on not getting anything in-corp are meaningless - it's not difficult to have an off-corp alt. also, if your system is supposed to not cause inflation, it will have to not be implemented - any creation of money from nowhere is inflationary relative to the status quo. i don't think inflation is an issue, but you cannot avoid it with this proposal."
"1. gain bounty2. get in a shuttle, destroy with alt3. ???4. profit"
"this doesn't make sense, and isn't really workable destroying noob ships, bringing extra money magically into the universe, etc. etc.."
"ok - so why are you proposing something tht would massively increase the profitability of suicide ganks, a risk/reward mechanism that is already so broken that ccp are going to nerf th heck out of it's viability see whichever dev blog it is? furthermore, you plan to replace the current chance that the target will not drop enough to make it viable, with a guaranteed income for the ganker in the form of this bounty?i also don't think it's a good idea to 'drive' people into low and nil sec not that i believe for a second that this deluded proposal would have that effect. if people want to play in high sec they will, if they wanted to move into low and nil sec they already would have. you have to entice them there, not drive them there. if there is a 2 year player with 40 mil sps who still spends all their time in high sec, there is a reason why they are there. forcing them into low will just earn ccp another terminated account and loss of revenue. this looks like a troll post by an actual or wannabe suicide ganker looking for more profitable targets which are easy to kill because they are set up for npc tankage and not pvp."
"no, this isn't that kind of post and every one of you is right. at the moment of writing the original post it looked to me like a compromise solution, but haven't seen all the aspects of the proposed change.i am not a suicide ganker, just a guy who is sick of those \"nerf lvl4\" topics and clashes between carebears and pvpers. oh well, back to the game :"
"and someone would call it an exploit, since they're taking advantage of a feature designed to protect mission runners when they aren't actually running missions."
"deadspace being harder to probe is fine. i'd love to see stuff like thick nebulae and electrical storms and such that people could hide in. get the proper kind of environment and it'd be like a giant aoe cloak.then conbine that with a remove of local...\"ok there's 50 shiops and a few caps guarding this system, hit the poses\"\"..wait where are all these ships coming from?\"\"what do you mean you think there's a nebulae or dust cloud that could've been hiding them from the probes?\""
"hahahaha.no support from me. no free kill for you. grind for your kills. that missioner is grinding for his isk.except for capitals. capitals don't belong in missions. if the capital is sitting in a mission, it should be just as easy to probe out as if it wasn't. this *should* make it not want to sit in missions since it could give away the position of any of its non-capital friends!"
"...\"his pattern indicates two-dimensional thinking.\"tactical environments, now that would be a valid reason for all these eye-searing neon nebulae."
"diagree with this suggestion although no suggestion was made. missioning in low sec and 0.0 carries enough risk for quite meager rewards. the rewards are almost as great in high sec as in low sec. i feel a change that would make probing easier would further nerf low sec. i personally feel probing missions should take skills, as opposed to today's \"drop probe\" \"click analyze\" \"wait until you get a hit\" \"kill\". before probing turned into what it is today it took rl skills to probe someone out. that's what i feel we should be striving towards. no support."
"why not make it so that the initial warp in area with the gate to the actual mission is not considered part of the mission and can be probed normally? that'll keep the mission runners themselves just as safe and will not allow capital ships to exploit the missions for their own safety. edit: forgot to support"
"failure op. go to molden heath and ask pirate corps like bydi and twstd how hard it is to probe out mission runners. they get more kills from probing mission runners than they do on gate camps some weeks - since being in mh again i've killed 2 bydi ships, both of which were hacs that warped into corpmate's missions after covops alts probed them out. the corp has lost a dominix, a drake and a maelstrom i think to missions being probed out when nobody else was around to come assist despite being told how to see probes on d-scan numerous times - it's even on our wiki!probing out missions isn't broken - train your astrometrics support skills and stop crying.this is why i don't read assembly hall more than once a month anymore, too many threads like this: general discussion whines disguised as legitimate concerns. \"i poasted it on assembly hall, ccp you must take it seriously now!!!\"gtfo"
"oh ****ing yes."
"oh hell yes"
"agreed"
"depends on the ship. raven pays no penalty for switching missile types, a caracal however pays a huge price.would be better if missiles just mostly did kinetic damage with a secondary damage for each different missile.quite aware that missiles are not the same as turrets. not asking for missiles to be the same as turrets. if anything it would make missiles more like drones.i would make a caldari missile ie: the kinetic ones the highest base damage missile.. gallente would probably be the lowest damage missile since they are the race that least uses them.. amarr well khanid and minmatar would be in the middle, obviously minmatar missiles would have the fastest missiles, and the amarr ones, well not sure.. though they could be given some kind of advantage as well.so to summarize, rather than having caldari missile ships with a kinetic bonus to use kinetic or do crap dps perhaps it would be neater to pick your missile type depending on its own unique stats. maybe a situation might benefit you more to use a minmatar explosive missile, maybe you wanna rain down pure dps and switch to a heavy hitting caldari kinetic missile.i think it would make picking your missile types more interesting, sort of how sometimes a warrior ii is the best drone to use and other times laying down the hurt with an ogre ii is the best choice.overall, the purely kinetic missiles would be the overall best missiles to use but it would give some tactical use of the other missiles as well outside of 'exploit resist hole' which generally doesn't happen in actual pvp.. well unless you're like shooting down falcons which obviously have 0% em or something.anyways i am just trying to make using missiles more interesting, not quite sure what i'm supposed to be 'suckin up' here, but thanks.."
"managing corporate income is of vital importance to the long-term survival of any corporation. eve gives this ability to missioning and pvp corporations in the form of the corporate tax. the tax is automatically levied on any bounty over i believe 30,000 isk and any mission reward. life for the mining industry corporation ceo is far from this easy as this tax is not levied on any sale of items. this causes the ceo to rely on the honor system which ultimately fails as members forget to pay the tax, make math errors, or just plain avoid the tax by design which forces the ceo to make big lists and spread sheets of who mined when and for howling and how much to ensure proper payment. such micromanaging prevents corporations from spreading out to other regions or if key people are not on-line more or less shut down. my question is why does the ceo not have the option to levy a sales tax? why is the corp. tax not automatically applied to sales of goods?"
"because that punishes traders like there's no tomorrow. 5% corp tax is low for a missioner, but a trader who makes a 10% markup on everything is losing 50% of their income, not 5%. i wouldn't be wholly opposed to being able to charge a tax on minerals minedthough of course that runs into problems with logistics - 10% of the minerals in your hold belong to the corp? what does that even mean? or with there being an automated tool to tell the corp how much mining each player has done. but extending the tax to cover trades is silly. also, as an alternate method of taxing for you - instead of charging a percentage, charge a head tax. 1 million per player per week, for example. brings in guaranteed money, fewer disincentives to people doing extra mining, and doesn't require odd accounting schemes. it's not perfect, but it's one you may wish to consider."
"no i dont really like the idea for fixed tax because i cant always play much everyweek and sure 1 mill a week is no biggee, but you bet that many corps will bump it up to make players more active which doenst sound v. cool imo.. especially considering the noobs that dont make much isk and may want to join a new corp.."
"on the flip side, market transactions are currently the best and fastest way to make lots of isk in a short amount of time short of mining certain specific moons. out of nearly every multi-billionaire i've known, nearly all of them have made that much isk by doing market transactions.i am 100% for being able to tax that kind of profit."
"true but only on transactions say where net profit for the total sell order wld be greater than 10mill or so say tax 5% of profit there, compounding tax as the profit gets higher..so say 10% tax for 50mill etc..if it was like that then yes, supported"
"if it was possible to set tax at a different level for market sales, perhaps. but given how many corps have 5%, 10%, or 25% tax rates, those rates would completely eliminate profitability for any non-scam market operation. all you'd do is drive people into using trading alts."
"i'd suggest two separate tax rates, both which can be set by the corp. - mission/rat/etc tax. the tax on everything already taxed. - sales tax. a tax on any income from sell order.that way the corp can set a low sales tax so that it lets the people who use the market remain profitable probably <1%, while taxing everyone else at the current rate."
"if the thorax model is of the right or would that be wrong? size, you know what people will use it for."
"cant wait to build me a model"
"support did you know about"
"want."
"want want want. 1 brutix and 1 megathron plz"
"you would think my be it would make less load on the server holding that info in the database if you could clear some of the trash from the past"
"no giving away your lp's to other people. much room for exploits, good for farmers,... but the original idea is great! support."
"what exploits? and what farmers? so far as i can tell, its primary use is to pool lp to buy expensive faction gear that none of the individuals in question can afford solo - a cnr, say. also, it lets missioners unload their lp profitably without having to think about it or be bothered with the market. it introduces middlemen for those who want them - people who you pay to accept inconvenience from you - and that's all. besides, why would farmers need this? by definition, they run a lot of missions. presumably, there's nothing in the store they can't buy, which means they have no need to sell the lp directly when they can value-add it by buying the profitable items from the lp store themselves and then selling them."
"posting in the wow-immigrant thread of the week"
"troll. based on the content of the op, i'd give it a 3/10. however, since you managed to nail so many people with it, i'll give you a 6/10."
"i am a equal opportunity hater. so ban me plz?"
"i have recently aquired a charon and am looking to put it to use. i am planning on supporting other corporations for a price, but not sure how i should charge. i am going to use freight containers to separate each order. should i charge per m3, storage container, or perhaps per jump. could i get some opinions or other ideas. thanks."
"use this equation:amount of storage containers multiplied by amount of jumps."
"it's the neverending storyso, thought i was finally going to get my main machine working and go pew pew but it turns out the bios on my wonderful laptop is the subject of a warranty extension since it indeed breaks thingsanybody heard from fahtim? account go ahead and lapse?new thoughts on things sovereign?do any good boosters lately?"
"i did not say there wasn't a difference. i said that the difference in production time between faction ammoessentially t1 times and t2 ammo does not seem to be all that big a deal, when you look at the prices."
"first im confused... the orginal poster are you upset about the manufacturing times? or the useage? or did you try to mask one in the othersecond no one has mentioned how freakin expensive faction ammo is comparitivly...take cruise missilse for instancet1 200-300 iskt2 300-500 iskf 1900-2200 for the \"cheap\" cal navy stuffon top of that the profit margin isnt that great for faction ammo i find when trying to sell. im much better off buying implants wiht my lp as i would get more isk per lp"
"i can't be concerned at all about the manufacturing times, but faction mission farming ammos have it all over t2 bpo or invented producers. while your t1 bpo is cranking out 5k units you're running anywhere from 1 to 10 missions or more, many more.so, in the amount of time to crank out 5k wrath cruise for example, you can convert them to cn wrath and slap them on the market for 1900 isk/u, which is 100% pure profit.the poor t2 producer has a nice bpo that costs 210 isk/u, requires raking in half a dozen materials & t2 comps, and a full *day* in production time. and the ammo they get out of it sells for 30% of the free faction ammo, and is so nerfed that no one wants to buy it anyway.thus, t2 ammo is relegated to back shelf because the introduction of faction ammo completely skewed the balance. t2 needs to be given a function and niche, or faction needs to be nerfed back to be a value between standard t1 and t2, not superior to. the only faction ammo that should have the possibility to be 'superior' to t2 should be the same as modules: complex/officer stuff, or perhaps even pirate faction by just a hair. not easily accessed and free-to-produce empire faction.profit margin isn't that great??? wtf are you smoking?faction is free to produce!the loot you pick up & refine, or the ores you mine very easily, produce cruise missiles for less than 10 isk per unit. the lp earned while the 5k run is being produced is the only 'cost' involved at all, and is a pittance compared to the 2000 p/u cost you quoted above.if you can't profit selling faction ammo you're missing a whole lot of zeros on your sell order."
"the t2 ammo price is low because it is not possible to sell them at a better price. no market. faction ammunition has a good market so they can sustain a higher price. to mister xerox: lp have a value, so they are not free. they should be counted in the faction ammunition cost."
"yes! i'd bet, if the numbers were looked at, that t2 ammo gets very little use compared to faction ammo."
"t2 bpo's should be removed from the game, as they give unfair advantage compared to people who don't have a bpo.so no support"
"/signedt2 bpos can rot in hell."
"lol @ t2 bpo whiners - as if things weren't 100000x more balanced than the old days when only 20-40 bpos of each type existed. try paying 350m for a vagabond... tbh, t2 bpos are so irrelevant these days i have no idea how you find the energy to whine about them.as for the op: yes. t2 ammo has been either broken omgwtfawesome or broken lame since day 1. it needs a total overhaul to be different to t1 and faction ammuntion: e.g. less damage than both, but extra effects e.g. cap neutralising."
"and ccp wants to get people away from farming missions, and then make lp store goods the biggest isk print in the game... re: faction ammo superior to pretty much every ammo type out there and cheap as chips to produce."
"i continue to think that a shield buffer/burst tank with many damage mods fitted is the best way to do it; it'd still be a likely primary, but with a 5/6/5 slot layout and maybe a 7.5% shield boost bonus and 7.5/7.5% launcher/projectile rof/damage bonus it'd be competitive with the other dreads, and still a bit distinct, besides."
"minmatar capitals fail, need some reworking."
"i want my miny caps to have more fire power and better tank ...ayee"
"the nag already has a pretty good burst tank shield tanked is about double the moros / rev burst tank, but it's cap effeciancy kills it. in a dread fight this helps but nags die pretty easily to poses.i'd still take it over the vertical pile of **** the nag is right now though."
"/signedalso all minmatar capitals are very bad against all other capitals.so -> buff minmatar caps nidhoggur & naglfar."
"the nag needs all the help it can get."
"a lot of people use sisi to find and test for bugs/exploits, but not to report them to ccp.people discovered doing this, and porting their exploits over to tq, and not filing the appropriate bug reports should be permabanned."
"bah they mirrored tq boo!!!! i lost my bs 5 but i gained cruiser 5 so now i can toy with the t2 cruisers but i still want my damn test dread eh well gotta wait another 30 or so days to get bs 5 back"
"yes!!"
"oh man that would be great."
"against"
"these kind of ideas make me wonder why devs even try to play this game and still come up with these terrible ideas.just fix what's causing this by adjusting it slightly to get a viable compromise.stuff like tweaking percentages to downsize the speed gain from eightfold to sixfold for interceptors, to fourfold for cruisers and twofold for bs.or if you have your head full of snakes your mwd will get heat dmg after 10 cycles +metalevel."
"against. too heavy handed for the intended objective. i support some of the mass rebalancing to make frigates and afs faster, and the web nerf, but that's about all. instead, nerf stacking if \"ludicrous speed\" is the real problem."
"against nerf. ccp are either a wielding a very large and over-compensated nerf bat or they are trying to introduce many less justified changes under the guise of a nano nerf"
"since some of us already own these, and ccp is changing what they will do after we have bought them based on the stated bonuses. will ccp refund the isk/lp to those interested in getting rid of these?we can't sell them on contracts, and they have been broken 1 year+, there is low confidence that they will get attention anytime soon. when i bought this implant i bought it because of it's stated attributes. while a time bonus may be helpful to some my invention runs are time wise balanced with my base product production runs and wouldn't really benefit me.i'd like to see an option to refund the isk/lp for these."
"somehow it seems that they forgot about it."
"turret / missile graphics and effects need a major overhaul. battleships should have mean looking battleship sized weapons, not tiny sticks. class-size appropriate effects for the win.missile \"effects\" are also a big disappointment. bring on proper hardpoints, missile launcher \"turrets\" and appropriate effects."
"good idea, altho it would nerf my insta undock bookmarks."
"interesting idea.would add a little more skill to station camping and being camped."
"very good ideea....each ship size to have a special undock point...good thinking mate."
"well thought out, i like it."
"lolomg this is classic:mothermoon [op] posted this in the linked thread!hahaha make up your mind :pedit: ahh i see you want set multiple docking points not ranomized multiple docking points, not that much difference but enoguh to warrent the extra thread i spose..."
"supported."
"that is correct statement."
"why neone would train that p.o.s i dunno i skipped it and went for the next one up doesn't take too long to train up....."
"increase dronebay to 15m3, small cap increase, perhaps increase its bonus slightly so it is actually better than a cruiser but not as good as a retriever."
"sounds good to me. this ship has to have a specific role where it can be best in as opposed to a retriever. the time to train for a retriever is so short it's not worth bying a procurer for 'general' mining."
"you mean sort of like how everyone who flies nano ships don't really have an unfair advantage because all the other people can also fly nanos. or how suicide gankers don't really have an unfair advantage because everyone can suicide gank. or how people who used to farm broken complexes didn't really have an unfair advantage, because everyone could farm those complexes.yeah, great argument there."
"so your argument is that: mission running isn't unbalanced, because it's balanced with mission-running.okaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaay."
"nano - ccp calls this a broken mechanicinsurance for suicide gank - ccp calls this a broken mechanicbroken complex - kind of obvious, from your description...so, what is your point?"
"that hi-sec mission running is also a broken mechanic at least as in need of fixing as the above."
"i disagree, but you are entitled to your opinion. if ccp feels that hi-sec missions are a broken game mechanic, they will and should, of course, fix them."
"and, in order to get ccp to say that high sec missions are a broken game mechanic, it takes a lot of whining on the forums. we're just doing what is traditionally done to get changes in the game."
"so, if the player base whined hard enough for something like adding a form of concord to lo-sec, ccp should listen as well?is this what you mean?"
"no, i don't mean ccp should listen. i am saying that it's apparent that they do listen.start your own whining about concord in low sec. this thread is about nerfing lvl 4s."
"not interested in whining for nerfs, tbh.i'm not really convinced that ccp actually \"listens\", when \"listening\" means changes they may disagree with, regardless of player whining.if ccp thinks l4 hi-sec missions are broken, they will change them. if they don't, they probably won't.you guys act as if ccp doesn't play their own game."
"we're making sure the items stays on the agenda. it'll get the changes live faster, and it is amusing to see all the high sec huggers get their panties in a twist about their isk prints being removed.well, sometimes you have to wonder if they really do. some decisions are so out of touch with the reality of the game it's almost funny."
"you assume a bit much...when the actual changes are, in fact, contrary to your wishes, can i have your stuff?funny, i always thought that ccp's decisions created the \"reality of the game\"."
"only if you agree to the same thing. if ccp nerfs high sec missions, you give me your stuff.guess that went over your head. no sweat."
"if ccp nerfs hi-sec missions, they must have viewed them as broken, so no, you cannot have my stuff. as far as going over my head, no, but yours, most likely."
"generally supported in principle, if not in the details. the problem with putting some class of mission in 0.0 space is that it gives sovereign alliances an unfair advantage in pve imho anyway. i guess it would work if you put a sufficient number of l4s in the portion of 0.0 that does not allow player sovereignty. i definitely support moving more high level missions to low sec though."
"that's kinda cowardly considering you asked for my stuff if no change happened. guess you were only trying to get a zinger in there. to bad it back fired. this is just no u with more words. try again, college-boy."
"thought you might rage-quit if ccp didn't give in to your demands. oh well...no u, was not really my intention, but if it makes it easier for you, so be it.college-boy! one can only dream..."
"all kidding aside, i would like to ask one serious question.exactly how much isk/hr should a mission runner be able to make in hi-sec?"
"well yes, they are going to be out of touch.one of the classic problems with devs playing their own game is they loose the 60,000ft perspective. they know how they play pvp and where they play bob and tend to lack perspective on other areas of the game.that being said.. from an economic perspective pvp is a lossy activity. it needs to be offset with low risk isk generation or the game collapses. the only way they can afford to cut the isk printers is to make pvp less costly or more profitable. otherwise power will become even more centralized in the big alliances with their access to extremely profitable null sec resources and the small/solo players will stop bothering to play."
"10 mil/h if very lucky, normally i think 6-9 would be right"
"i usually make about 5 or 6 tops, if i get good missions. this sounds like a raise. :"
"about the same as high sec mining with a hulk. the problem is, the miner's income is determined to a great deal by the market, which is player controled, and thus falls in the realm of pvp. because of this, a nerfing of rewards of missions in high sec won't be enough in and of itself. some kind of competition will have to be introduced, such as the suggested sliding agent quality."
"regular casual miner, or macro miner?"
"macro mission runners could make what macro miners make and casual mission runners could make what casual miners make. ok with you?"
"these \"omfg eve will lose subs and die\" crap is just wrong.1 people who do nothing but mission all day and play purely for the missions the minority will not be affected because they don't really spend isk on anything, so a decrease in income wont matter. who knows, ti might encourage them to explore other aspects of the game as well. 2 people who use missions to fund other things will be affected, but they wont /ragequit over it...at least no more than a few. did pirates all quit eve when wtz was introduced? are all the nano-users going to quit after the nerf? how about the stacking nerf many years ago, did the people who relied on gankageddons quit?improving game balance and moving the game closer to its stated design goal will never kill the game. you know what will kill the game? trying to be a wow-clone in space, because lets face it, eve's pve sucks. eve will simply not succeed if it tries to become more like wow because wow has the whole \"carebear pve\" thing down. if someone seriously wants that type of game, they will go to wow because wow does it better.eve offers a risky, difficult, pvp game and improving that would only make eve grow."
"you must be the worst mission runner in eve then, and probably end up on 2-3 mill/hr."
"i support this discussion.perhaps rare faction spawns along the lines of \"true sanshas/shadow serps etc\" in fw complexes with tags that can be exchanged in fw lp stores for certain offers might help the missioning part.some sort of corporation/member veto on miltia members would be good to reduce greifing.make all fw wrecks looted by neutrals be punishable by navy npc spawns.- just a few ideas for discussion."
"not sure what ccp should do, but they should do something to make fw more attractive.we're losing fw players at an alarming rate."
"incorrect.the higher your rank the less standings you are granted for clearing a complex. not only do you recieve less standing gain as a reward you are still trying to shift your standing closer to ten which becomes increasingly difficult.once people reach a certain rank they realize that doing missions or sitting plexes fending off hostiles earns them nothing at all they realize that fw is utterly pointless as anything other than a free never-expiring war."
"its the truth!"
"core usability such as this can hardly be considered a minor issue. *shakes head sadly*the eve ui has been cr4ppy for too long, jesus christ, all efforts should be going toward bringing it out of the 1970s and into the present.re the cited technical issues why this particular change can't happen: wtf?!?! the servers cannot currently cope with large fleet battles anyway, so what begucking difference is the potential additional lag caused by this feature going to make?"
"ccp database guy has later clarified that this idea is not going to be implemented bcos if database issues. there was indeed dev post approx half a year before that from what it was possible to get impression that this thing is under consideration and even implemented soon.had short argument about the issue in features forum in approx 2 months ago where reasons why it's not going to be implemented are posted in longer form, in nutshell: as reloading ammo is database intencive activity ccp is afraid that implementing this feature would change player habits and make them switch ammo more often, thus increasing database load. ofc i fully support this idea, but not holding my breath about getting it implemented.edit: doh, relevant quote is already in this thread on page 3 from ccp explorer."
"fully customisable and scriptable interface please. screw macro concerns.blizzard don't penalise their players by shoving a black mask over their interface's head and stuffing a red ball in its mouth. why should the eve interface be gimped so hard? it is the poorest game interface i have ever had the misfortune to be forced to use. i'd be embarrassed if i were its \"designer\".the majority of users should never be punished so that a tiny minority can be thwarted - other means of dealing with the macro issue should be found."
"...[meh]"
"come there is every reason to add this to the index and yet i haven't seen it up there. if you feel it shouldn't be up there post a comment here as to why."
"fixing mining missions was a part of an issueraised by ankh was escalated during our last meeting."
"yes, and don't pepper non-mining agents with mining missions!!! if i don't want to mine, why am i getting mining missions from a manuf/distrib agent???and when i refuse, 90% of the time the very next mission is the one i just refused!!!long ago they said that refusing a mission would remove that mission from your immediate que for at least 4 hours so you are not likely to get it immediately after refusing it.imo, when a mission is refused it should be shuffled to the bottom of the stack. nothing is worse than getting the same exact mission after refusing it."
"add some other rocks to those missions too. couple of 0.0 ore rocks in each mission, so that when you take it you get a few megacyte bars or something at least."
"i actually rather enjoyed mining missions when they first came out and still contained regular ore in addition to the mission specific stuff. some of the l3 missions required first going in with a cruiser, clearing out drones which dropped t2 salvage of all things, then coming back in a mining ship to sweep up.the big problem i had with them was..... if you want all kill missions there are plenty of agents to choose from. if you want all mining missions the best you can do are mining agents limited to a small number of corporations and they only seemed to give mining missions half the time. so the accessability of mining missions was terrible and were for some pretty useless corps i.e. ones that only have a refining of 30% in their stations anyway, so standing isn't helpful.so beyond putting back in the regular ore, i would like to see some 100% mining agents and spread them out among more corporations. at minimal the research corps should have some 100% mining agents, esp since industrialists who might actually have a use for these missions grind research corps to get datacores for doing thier building and inventing."
"i don't do mining missions and i fly a hulk. they are that bad. i have a mackinaw and saw the ice mission last night wanted 20 units of ice. that is still thirty minutes of ice harvesting minimum for me and all the mining missions i have run in the past were for equal or less than the courier missions i run. at least on courier missions i can stack them together to run them quickly for storyline missions. please remove the materials for war storyline. mining/hauling all that ore gives almost no faction. i got it 4 times in a row i think. it was terrible."
"i can support this....cause they truly do suck"
"mining missions sucks - courier missions suck worse. these should both be fixed."
"fully support the salvage drones"
"no.salvaging isn't supposed to be an extra form of loot. salvaging is already easy if you have a ship meant for it, we don't need any mechanisms for easy salvage.right now you either need to sacrifice combat capability for the increased profits or bring a specialized salvage ship, as it should be."
"make them heavy drones and you would have to sacrifice combat capability to use them. 25m3 and 25 bandwidth."
"support.afterall your argument \"you need to sacrifice a high-slot for tractor/salvager\" doesn't hold, since salvager drones would be the same, i need to sacrifice that extra dps they do for salvager/pulling drones.salvager drone specs:based on berserker speed ftw!25m3half speed when pulling in a wreck ??"
"drones need some love ever since their nerf last year. so give us variety like this!"
"i love this idea!as mentioned, though, these drones should consume significant dronebay space and bandwidth, and they should be slower than the equivalent modules. that is, these drones should not make the existing tractor beam and salvager modules obsolete."
"more drone variety is always good. make them like mining drones, always having to bring the stuff back to you.-liang"
"1 salvage is another form of loot. that's why you get better stuff from l4 wrecks than you do l1. but you are right that it's easy enough if you fit salvage/tractor instead of guns.2 from the point above, we see that \"sacrifice combat capability\" has thus far meant \"guns -> salvage gear\". but what would adding drones do, except lead to the same thing.who's said yet, how large a salvage drone would have to be? why not make a single variant, that's medium or even heavy sized. then small frigates won't be using them very often which is fine, and even larger cruisers will have to make room for them room that could be given to scouts instead.that way... you could fit regular guns for combat, and carry 1-2 salvage drones for cleanup after. you'd be causing just as much damage as you would with 2x salvagers, 2x tractors, and 5x hammer ii. only now you're using your own guns and ammo, and letting the drones clean up for you... instead of letting the drones kill and you clean up after them."
"except a lot of ships have more drone bay than drone bandwidth, especially gallente ships. they could easily be able to have enough drones to maximize damage and salvage on the go1 no, it's not. salvaging is supposed to take effort. l4 wrecks don't give more salvage than l1 wrecks, battleship wrecks give better salvage than frigate wrecks, though. looting is supposed to be kind of a \"no-brainer\" at least in ratting and such, although if speedrunning missions for lps/standing not quite so, killing the rats gives you the loot. there's a reason you need special modules for it, it's an option for people who want to spend additional time and effort.2 again, many ships have larger drone bays than they do drone bandwidth3 your idea is flawed. with a gun ship, you sacrifice way more dps by getting tractors/salvagers than you do by sacrificing drones. with drone ships, there's enough drone bay to fit for max damage and have a full drone compliment out."
"support. but...tweak the guns to lay waste quickly to capitals, battleships, battlecruisers, etc. tweak the guns to do little to no damage on t1 cruisers, assault frigates, interceptors, frigates, stealth bombers, etc. maybe this would make for far more fun small ship pvp on the gates. the asteroid belts that currently have no one in them because they die trying to get in low sec will start to fill up a bit as the reward is comparable to the risk. this means more targets and you can still use your pimp gatecamp battleship to blow up people in belts. this is good for everyone, pirates and pvpers will be much happier to have more people coming in and having to use a bit more strategy than sit, tank, and overwhelm. traders in their big fat industrials might have a chance, might. intermediate players will have an exciting place to rat or mission before getting the skills to step out onto the 0.0 playing field. either way you can still die but you might last a minute or two which is much more satisfying than watching your ship disappear in a blaze of fire ending your 5 second journey into low sec."
"i'm a bit late in this topic, but to you guys who support this, i have a question to you.was the hp buff on all ships meant to let the ships last longer in fights or to let the ships pop as fast as they did before the hp buff?if you answer that the hp buff was meant to let the ship live longer, then why are you supporting this thing by saying increase the dps on the sentrys. the ships wont last longer if they increase the dps on sentrys.that's the reason for the hp buff, to let ships live longer.but no, not signed from me."
"no. stupid idea"
"senries should be upgraded to be more in-line with existing pos modules.there should, of course, be guns... and those guns should do a respectable amount of damage 150-200 dps per gun, all types, but there also need to be ecm sentries, cap neut sentries, webbing sentries, ect. just no scrambling sentries let the pcs/rats do that."
"quoted for best signature.ps. i dislike my ship getting blowed up when i dont want it do as much as the next guy, but to me gate camps are fine the way they are now. ive lost a good deal of money to pirates. though most of those were by accident as i am fortunate enough to have a 2nd account from which i can scout from."
"shuttles can't be fit, sure. but why can't they be rigged? they're supposed to be cheap disposable transport, but why not allow rigs to be used on shuttles to make them into better ubertransportmobiles. i'd fly a triple t2 trimark shuttle through hed."
"i support this idea."
"and here i thought i was stoned... oai vey.whatever it is yer smokin, can i have a hit or fifty?"
"here, have a kitten."
"why not?if people really want to waste the isk..."
"doking games are lame. easiest solution would be to make redock timer a lot longer than minute. say 5 mins."
"good work jade/csm dear god did i just say that?the moros pilot a few posts above is exactly why this needs to be changed, engaging huge gangs with zero risk to yourself. when i was in low sec i had to blob in order to fight station huggers. or else i 1v1 or 1v2 and the enemies just dock up. so i had to bring 5+ bs with me to kill the station hugger. not to mention the remote-repping and other tactics, fighting on a station is the most boring, unfun and unexciting pvp i have ever been in. i'd rather suicide on noob ships."
"qft"
"no docking for 15 min = moar blobs.do you want blobs?"
"impressive, changes that have been needed for a long time. gaining an aggression timer for remote repping is not going to be pleseant but i think a solid change, if you chose to stick around on a gate, you gotta do your buisness or get off teh pot and leave... i would have just suggested for stations, if you aggress within dock range, you get bumped 5k from teh station, then the timers on hull types, aren't necessary"
"if this actually gets done, i will play until the bitter end"
"at minimal an undocker should not pop on the grid before the grid has loaded for them."
"incrase the docking timer after the aggression and while the pilot has global cant dock until its down"
"supported"
"this excactly"
"fix system now!!!"
"this has been talked about on several other threads, but nothing seems to being done about it. i had thought that fw would be the testing grounds for a new sov system. i think i was mistaken. i support this this. ccp forget about all the eye candy and look at the issues!"
"i have to agree, that probing should take more player skill and less 'drop probe, contackt'."
"current scanning system isn't perfect but this idea is far worse. you shouldn't be a rl math wizz to scan some internet space ships."
"why would it take a math wizz to draw three straight lines?"
"good idea. could use some tweaking.if you can pin point them with a 360 scan, that means that the directional scanner is useless. if you can narrow it down using your scanner, that makes using the on board ship scanner great for finding people not safe spotted, too easy i think."
"i propose tier 3 learning skills to sell at 500 mil isk a piece or through cosmos completion. would be neat to have the prerequisite of say perception tier 3, spatial awareness 5, learning 5, clarity 5. these tier 3 learning skills would have a rank of say 16. tier 3 learning skills would raise each attribute another 5 points."
"people hate these with a vengeance, even eve devs.i'd prefer to have more charisma based skills put in that actually does something other than you learning to learn better."
"these would be a mistake - more must-haves with high requisites are not good for the game, and especially not for the newer players of the game."
"ccp has stated they regret ever adding learning skills to the game. they're not going to make more."
"not supported, learning skills are enough of a time sink at the moment, any more \"must-have\" skills, especially ones that cost half a billion a shot and are crazily high in rank would not be a good thing for the game.what the game needs isn't a heightening of the skill tree, but a broadening of the base especially in skills relating to charisma. any new skills related to that should either not have a prerequisite outside the new skills, or branch up from one of the existing basic charisma skills corp management/leadership/social/tradehowever, it is difficult to see what a charisma skill could affect that would:-a be worth training.b not unbalance the game.as most of the things it could affect are already in game under those 4 trees."
"the current way learning skills are used in the game do not add anything besides shortening time.but i was wondering why these skills aren't part of the required skills for training other skills.for training advanced skills to a certain level you would need the required levels for the base skills.this basicly would make them quartaire requirement.but i don't think anyone would like this because training learning skills is boring and pointless."
"why, to further the gap between the veterans and the noobs? best thing would be to eliminate all learning skills, give each character in game an equivalent of all learning and advanced learning skill at l5 and leave it at that. there are too many things to learn in this game already, i think the learning skills are out dated at this point."
"how about +6 +7 rare implants?tier 3 learning skills will unbalance the gameplay"
"and +7 implants wouldn't?they would probalby just end up in the heads of hardcore mission runner and other safe activities anyway,.. and will give yet another incentive for people to avoid pvp like the plague."
"what a ****ing horrible idea! we need to do away with them, not add more!"
"uh, no. now if you changed the op to say removing learning skills... hell, i'd just take the hit in sp at this point, as long as the attributes got raised to max.-liang"
"not supported, i'm afraid. we need fewer learning skills, not more."
"i support this solution"
"this solution sounds rather reasonable.now if this kind of mwd worked in deadspace... nom nomand if the short range scram still disabled it.... nom nom nomier."
"its a bad idea with many many caveats. eg. gimping blasterboats,drone boats and still doesn't fix the nanoing.if you want a simple solution it would be that using mwd/nano/carb/snake would get harsh stacking penalties.that is what's causing ludicrous speed and so that needs to be nerfed. just like all the other stuff that got nerfed because off stacking advantages."
"support"
"simple & balancedtake notes ccp"
"warning big wall of tekst... ^^the abbadon is one of the few amarr ships that does not get the cap usage bonus on lasers. this makes it use a large amount of cap to just deal damage alone. in fact it uses so much cap on weaponry alone you need cap mods to keep your guns running.with maxed out skills these guns use the following cap when using multifrequentie l:mega pulse lasers | -5.3 cap every seconddual heavy pulse lasers | -4.3 cap every seconddual heavy beam lasers | -5.1 cap every secondmega beam lasers | -7.5 cap every secondtachyone beam lasers | -7.9 cap every secondif you use 8 mega pulse laser ii's with multifrequentie l you'd have 4 minute 57 seconds of cap. and without skills 3m 22.you'd need at least 4 cap recharger ii's or 3x power relay ii's to make you perma run your guns.but that would waste all your medslots or 3 valuable lowslots wich you could use for damage mods or amor tank.so your best bet would be using a cap booster. a heavy cap booster with charge 400's lets you perma run your guns.now the problem is that cap boosters take up cargospace. knowing that the developers would have tought about this issue they'd give it a good cargobay to put all those charges in.but they didn't instead they gave the abbadon 525 m3 cargohold and thus the smallest cargohold of all battleships.this seems far from logical to me....possible solution :give the abbadon a 675 m3 carghold as that would match with the cargohold of another cap booster user , the hyperion."
"so your complaint is having to use cap modules on an amarrian ship? pardon me if i'm not exactly shocked by this. the abaddon is a very good ship, with a heavy weakness in cap, and this is intentional. i see no need to try to fix it - the ship is not broken."
"my complaint is that it needs lots of cargospace for boosters and that the cargohold sucks wich is a bad combination....i might have put a litle to much effort it trying to explain why ......"
"the abaddon's entire point is that it has good dps and tank... for a short time."
"i understood your point. i just happened to disagree with it."
"no, this is stupid. the ship is supposed to have a downside in high cap usage in return for amazing ehp and damage. this suggestion is about mitigating that downside for no stated balance reason - the abaddon is great, why boost it?"
"i thinketh the cargo capacity is lower because amarrian ships do not require as much m3 for ammo?plz though i if i stand corrected..."
"every caldari pilot and almost every minmatar pilot assumed you were joking because of this statement.unfortunately you are not."
"si."
"a more useful place for the extra colour codes would be...green: * is repping/shield transport/energy etc....some sort of differentiation between squads could also be nice on top of the current fleet marker.as for drones, theres already enough monitoring by the drone window. also with the amount of time it can take to get locks on drones giving them a targetting marker could make it ridiculously hard to actually pop them."
"we can add gang-mates to a watch-list - why not drones as well?in a gang, i can see a gang-mate getting aggro because his name blinks, even before he's taking damage.for drones, i have to wait until they actually take damageand lose quite a few, because heavies aren't that fast."
"now this i can support."
"there are special classses in schools for your type"
"there seems to be a odd situation in standing gains/losses certainly on l1/2 missions.after completing 16 odd missions a \"significant mission\" will result in faction gain of 0.3 to 1.25% this can be over up to 5 missions, however a single \"insignificant\" l1 mission against said faction can result in a 0.8% faction loss. these need to balanced in either boosting the significant mission gain or reducing the faction loss to be more inline with what is intended.in the whole galaxy moving one barrel of oil is not going to mean a heap of beans to anyone let alone mega corps."
"i failed my first level 4 mission and went from 7.2 standing back to 5.1. it hurts badly. never let a mission time out."
"the amount you loose for failing a mission has always been severe in the extreme, more than 10x the gain for succeeding in it.and if you have high standings you suffer worse you can go from 9.99* back to 6, where if you only have 1.2 you fall back to perhaps 0.9 or so.missions should detract only as much as they offer, never more which is still hefty if you have high standing because the gap from 1 to 10 is huge compared to 9.78 to 10.signed."
"at first, i thought that this would be a horribly idea; in effect it would serve to reward pirates and griefers for activities they already enjoy doing. worse yet, only those killing mission-runners would benefit, since pirates would have no such bounty accumulated for hunters to collect.but then i reconsidered; now i think this is a great idea to double to income of mission-runners. per mr. forum'alt's suggestion, mission runners would just suicide noob ships to an alt a few times, either after each mission or before logging for the night, and would therefore scam money from pirate factions to match the amount they earned from concord bounties!"
"i've been reading the book they made of eve ... but correct me if i'm wrong - planets have people on them in the book - and corporation control people. since the book has population on the planet it would only be fair that we had the same thing in the game. this way we can invade planets, take control of lands, factories, plantations, cities and much more lets leave that for the devs. since there are enough planets in eve anyway it should be something that everyone can do  although with the right skills. the more skills, the more land per planet you can control, the more land you control the more profit. with profit i dont mean like isk, more in the form of resources like fuels, steel components and alloys, life stock, etc  for this there must also be a market, since players dont need stuff like this to start with lets get it to stations where npcs can buy it the further away, the greater the risk, the higher the value. lets also include the race differential an amarr pilot would be stupid to invade an amarr planet but would prefer an minmatar planet, then after invading the player can implement a government of his/her choice.lets not call it colonization, but invading. to invade you need an invasion force, meaning drop ships, soldiers, planetary bombardments, etc  level of success depends on skills and planets. a scanner for lvl of success would be nice here. other matter: warping trough solid mass is impossible since the mass would compress a starship into a tiny pack of metal. might be an option to increase the cloak time after every jump, allowing the pilot to plot a course to his/her destination  would also increase evading pvp  giving pvp-pilots a bit more searching to do while they kill people off :p. i know issues like this have come up in the past, but since the book is here anyway and the game is always getting better i find it of interest that normal replies are added so the dev-team can use it properly."
"on the books, just not soon tm by any stretch.they want to introduce secondlife into eve first."
"so the farmers would be running wc's, ge's, and ae's all day while the casual gamers get stuck with the crappiest missions. problem not solved just changed to benefit the farmers even more than it currently does.just allow people to only run so many missions with a given agent regardless of high sec or low sec to stop the farming and you will resolve a lot of problems. if someone wants to run 20 accounts so they can get 60 alts to run missions all day from an agent then isn't that to the benefit of ccp? which would be us in the long run!"
"umm what gives you that idea?"
"the very system that makes you think its ok. the npc market. if your hot on your game you can catch, buy up, and fill all the best orders and move on while nearly worthless orders are all thats left. the orders are there for all to see and has been proposed that the missions could possibly be there for all to see as well. even if they are not, why would a mission runner not just skip missions he/she doesn't like in hopes of getting better missions from the pool? the people who cause the problem would in fact do just that because its all about farming to them and not just casually playing the game.yes randomly pulling missions will reduce the chances of a person getting a primo mission. then you have the limit on the number of missions you can reject, but if your farming you reject until you cant, blitz the one your stuck with, and keep hunting for better missions. also, how do you stop all the missions from simply being consumed? well you add them into the game like the market. that doesn't work either. if all the missions are consumed during a given period then the farmers will know when the recharge happens and will be on the ball to blitz the top missions away from the casual players and still be just as big a problem as they were before. so lets get this straight, the only option that cant be abused under this idea would be to randomly give out an infinite number of missions right? if we are randomly going to hand out an infinite supply of mission then what are you changing again?thats how the system is now."
"as much as i dont like the concept of high security level 4 missions... the isk must flow. i dont think making the reward much higher outside of empire would justify the potential losses. even if the bears worked in groups, i doubt they could ever muster the numbers required to oust people trying to destroy their ships. that or the point at which they do dominate their threats their profitability is reduced such that running missions in highsec alone would be the same/better/marginally worse."
"one of the problems i've seen in game for a budding industrialist is the complete lack of public research slots available within a reasonable timescale shortest wait for a slot i've seen was 16 days. however, simply increasing the number of public slots isn't the best solution as these slots would fill rapidly given the current demand.-----as a possible method of easing this situation, how about allowing characters with very high standing say +7.00 unmodified access to the npc corporations private labs for their research purposes?in order to truely balance this out, these labs should cost lp instead of isk to set up your jobs say 1000 lp setup + 100 lp per hour base modifiable by skills?that way, they're ridiculously expensive in comparison to public slots but you don't have the issue of having to wait for your research slot to open up.so, to sum up:-public npc slot one type of research only- reasonably cheap however long wait to gain access.private npc slot pe/me/copying/invention available on same slot- very expensive however slot always available."
"posting only in support of my op.edit: the above slots should be restricted to one per character. if you have a lot of research that you need doing then it should be more efficient to set up a research pos or hire a player research corp"
"there is already a mechanic that does something very much like this. it is called deploying your own high sec research pos."
"true, however this idea was meant to bridge the gap between working out of the public labs and setting up your own pos.like i said above, for someone who's only just starting out as an industrialist with a couple of bpo's that they need to research then they currently have the option of waiting 3-4 weeks per blueprint by using the public labs, hiring a research corp or setting up their own pos.with this, you use an npc private lab if all you have is one or two bpo's you want small amounts of research performed on for example, ammo bpo's, you hire a research corp when you want long term or bulk research done ie ship bpo's/multiple module bpo's and set up your own pos only if your operation has grown to the point where you need to be doing your own research on site ie capital construction bpo's/multiple ship bpo's as it's cheaper, quicker and more secure than relying on an external corporation for your research needs for that volume of research."
"sorry m8, still not selling me that is a really needed niche. i think the current setup works fine. the only thing that might be worth changing a bit, is some form that allows pos research labs to be rented out via an ingame mechanic."
"good ideacurrently the research slots are all taken by off-line alts, you can have 2 on account and the jobs will be running regardless of their activitysome barrier to npc slot use must be introduced, then we will see 75% of slots free upsomething like +3 standing with faction +3 with corporationsince pirate factions aren't exploited that much the current price may stay"
"it would be nice to see that, i have to admit. however, first they'd need to sort out the problem with starting remote jobs ie the bp needing to be in the corporation hanger of the pos owner instead of being able to run the job with input and output going to your personal hangeranything that would increase the availability of research slots would definately be a good thing. my idea is just one possible way of doing this, being able to rent pos lab space would be another.it's not so much providing barriers to the use of npc labs as providing options to those who've put in the work to build up their standings with specific corporations for example, creodron / duvolle labs / boundless creation etc thus allowing them to leave the public lab system opening up the slots they would have been using for other people. originally i'd thought of making it available with any corporation, however it does make more sense that this should be restricted to the r+d corps.it could even lead to the formation of research hubs throughout empire away from the current market/mission hubs thus encouraging people to spread out more.in addition, in return for the convenience of having a lab available at any time you have to pay through the nose for its use with lp's thus providing an additional sink for removing resources from the game.i'd almost be tempted to specify that you use lp's for the setup cost and rp's for the hourly cost to give an alternative use for rp's that isn't datacores. however, given that rp's are with an agent in a specific field and not with a corporation this may prove to be more trouble than it's worth to implement."
"i posted a similar idea here - basically, allow players to add research and industry lines to their offices in npc stations, and make them available for public sale if they want. this would be expensive to set upi said 500,000 lp for 10 lines, but that was just a first approximation, but have no other limits, thereby removing the hard cap on public slot availability and making it instead be market-based."
"not a bad idea, have put a thumb of support against it in it's own thread."
"maybe shorten the max run time to something like 5 days? that would cut out a lot of the afk usage since it would be less useful for big things like ships but make life easier for the younger industralists who are often using low cost bpos with short times anyway."
"the problem with putting up a pos is:1 massive isk investment at least for a young player2 has to be a corp asset, so you either need to cut your toon out of corp life, or start up an alt gah! why are the solutions to so many problems in eve 'make an alt'???, build up your alt's standing yet more metagaming and start a shell corp around them to run the lab.personal poses would help with this problem... maybe strutures that can be possitioned in places other then moons just like npcs can already do so we don't end up with all the moons being monopolized...."
"no. so missionrunning should be required for an industrialist...?we already have a much better solution, one that is based around player interaction. research alliances exist to allow you to research to your heart's content with a very modest fee. i would like to see it possible to open up research slots to the public, but your idea isn't the way to go about it."
"any serious industrialist will have ground his standings up with the corporations he chooses to operate out of already as:-1 high standings help to offset the broker fees you pay when setting up buy/sell orders for your raw materials/finished products.2 high standings help to reduce the costs of setting up jobs in npc stations.3 high standings, if you gain your minerals via reprocessing modules thrown onto the market at below mineral cost, can eliminate the amount you lose via the refinery tax.all three of which will reduce your overheads and so allow you to gain more profit per item.however, the issue here isn't my idea, i proposed that as a potential way of resolving the issue which is the fact that the current system for public research is bursting at the seams due to the demand placed upon it as evidenced by the fact that the majority of public labs in empire have a waiting time of around 20 days for every me slot.so, to reiterate, thumbs up in this thread means that you believe the current public lab system needs an overhaul to help cope with the growing playebase. the details of which methods are used, i leave up to ccp, however, providing ideas that they can brainstorm can't hurt. i accept that my idea has flaws and there have been a couple of good suggestions posted higher in the thread as to alternative ideas."
"no - mission runners should be able to sell services to industrialists. they don't open their own lines as-is, they use other people'spc or npc, so why not give them more ways of doing so that don't require waiting 3-6 weeks for slots to open? as for research alliances, that's a great solution if you have no friends. personally, i'm in corp with a pile of friends, rl and in-game both, and i don't want to be forced into leaving them just so i can get my research done in a reasonable period of time. i'd be fine with the pos solution if the slots could be made public, but since ccp has explicitly said that won't happen, i want to see a market-based solution to the shortage of public research slots, and this seems like the best way."
"interesting. should be looked into."
"small factions items should be scaled down a bit.im not saying by any means that they should be cheap but pimping out your frigate at least in my mind shouldnt cost the same as a battleship cost per slot anywaytaking cal navy for exampletheres not much difference in the cost of standard launchers, heavy launchers, and cruise launchers.t1 items scale, t2 items scale, why shouldnt faction"
"sounds reasonable, though i don't know enough about the faction gear economydrop rates, etc. to know if it would actually work. but i'll give it support for now, since i'm sure ccp will shoot it down if it can't work."
"wrong, it is 9 years over the drinking age and 11 years over the smoking age.anyway, supported."
"it depends what country you're in.i thik it's because those are the words based on naughty thoughts which will corrupt the young and modern society as we know it. it's best to keep them censored.anyway, i'm off to see how my slaves are doing, blow up some ships and their thousands of crew watch some exotic dancers and take some boosters."
"why bother when you know ccp won't budge?"
"add a filter to the forums... if there's no filters in game... whats the point of a forced forum filter?"
"not signed. if anything probes need nerfed, not boosted."
"agreed.it should be set as a static colour though, otherwise whenever you joined a new fleet you'd be wondering what color the squad/wing/fleet commander will be using today.or something the player can set for their particular client. for me any dark color is impossible to read esp blue because my background is gray, lowering contrast to unreadable levels."
"ohhhh, good idea!"
"please display the lab locations in the installations tab of the science & industry menu.i see a bunch of labs \"3 jumps away\" but i have no idea where they are. my corp leader informs me, but he shouldn't have to. if the pod interface is smart enough to know the lab is 3 jumps away, it should be smart enough to say where exactly it is.original post"
"which screen is lacking in the information about system names? i've never seen a job that doesn't display locations."
"that's fine if you already have a job, but if you're looking for an installation, there's a problem. on the science and industry menu, on the installations tab... it will tell you how many jumps away each laboratory is, and who the owner is, but not where the lab is located. if you go to the jobs tab and you have jobs listed, you can right-click any of the jobs and you will get a location context menu. but there is no right-click interface for the installations tab.updated original post."
"/signed"
"can we have magic missiles?can we have dynamite laser spear?can we please have armor class and thac0?can we not have 'racial missiles?"
"when i looked for a cool sci-fi mmorpg after swg was bast@rdized by soe, i found eve. the description explained to me that this is a brutal environment. everything i read, all the research i've done, my first 14 days, they all reinforced that this game is brutal.i choose to pay the monthly, i choose to log in and play knowing there is no pve server and there does not need to be one. the choices to play are made when we pay.pvp = player v. playereve = everyone v. everyone"
"glad you posted this. i think it is hilarious the minmatar aka the ex-slave race have so many black characteristics.what about the amarr, amarrians? sounds a lot like americans / aryans.if i gave a ****, i could be offended, like the worthless op. just thought i'd lol a little at this thread."
"i suspect that having had multiple 0.0 proposals rejected already, the csm isn't interested in discussing a proposal that isn't really, really likely to pass the vote. it's kind of like bane's cap ship stuff. the topic is complicated and controversial and so the proposal has to consist of a lot of different pieces -- so many pieces that most csm members and most players can find one or two pieces that they dislike enough to vote against the whole proposal.the csm process is basically: 1 put proposal as-is on agenda2 discuss it for 5-10 minutes in the meeting mostly poking holes3 everyone votes on the proposal as-isthere's not really any...compromise among the reps. no dialog where they hash out their concerns ahead of time.like with bain's stuff. his topic was on the agenda for two weeks this last time before it hit the vote. you can bet that most csm reps knew how they would vote after browsing the proposal thread a couple of days in. but none of them replied to the thread saying \"i'm not going to vote for this in the meeting because of x, is there any leeway on that piece of the proposal?\"honestly, with as long as the issues sit on the agenda before the meeting to vote, the csm reps could actually have the issues hashed out in the assembly hall well in advance of the meeting to vote. they could go into that meeting and rocket through 20 issues in 30 minutes, because the issue presentation and discussion and compromise would have been done in the assembly hall ahead of time.but that's not the way the csm works. and, with that level of...inflexibility, i think it is a waste of time putting complicated, controversial issues on the agenda. majority support is just too unlikely.all that aside, i think the reason that we didn't get much feedback on our thread in the assembly hall is that the proposal was too long. of course, the discussion we could have gotten by making it shorter would have been all chaff. so it's kind of lose-lose. i kind of doubt that the proposal flat-out sucked and no one had the heart to tell us. on eve-o, everyone always has the heart to tell you that you suck."
"i very much agree - i think there was a high degree of burnout because the current process doesn't allow for compromise and revisions in order to make progress, it's more \"throw it against the wall and see if it sticks\" and that results in a lot of false starts."
"small gangs under 20 can achive a lot of kills and even terminate careless capitals .medium gangs 20-50 can destroy station services , indertict systems , etc. fleets are destined to siege systems , conquer regions & wage the ultimate form of warfare . now if you want you pathetic little gang to pose a major threat to 0.0 juggernauts and you're playing the wrong game. and is you can't catch the prey then you don't know how to hunt , learn to play ."
"yep.faction ammo has wiped the market for people producing t2 ammos of any sort wether invented or bpo for 1/10th the effort put in by the science/industry folks.nerf faction ammo into oblivion just like t2."
"t2 ammo ? is that still around ?"
"*grumble grumble double post >.<*"
"high damage ammo for short range guns needs a definite buff - i'd personally do it by lowering the penalties.personally, i'd do something like this:void:optimal - same 0.75xfalloff - reduced penalty 0.75xtracking - no penalty or 0.9xmaking it different then faction ammo - slightly better optimal, slightly worse falloff, both track the same or slightly reduced tracking for void since they're both short-range ammunitions, and it's harder to track close-range...conflag:optimal - same 0.5xfalloff - no penaltytracking - no penalty or 0.9xagain, makes it different then faction ammo conflag has different damage types at the price of higher activation cost, remove the tracking penalty altogether because, well, it's short range ammo, and you need the tracking at short ranges.hail:optimal - no penaltyfalloff - same 0.5xtracking - no penalty or 0.9xagain, makes it different then faction ammo: it has optimal, but its falloff is completely killed while minmatar faction ammo has a generous falloff. needs tracking as it is a short range weapon system. hail also nerfs your cap recharge, but i think we can live with that.in case you didn't see what i did there, you generally would get -50% range and increased cap use or cap regen nerf in case of hail, with -10% tracking at worst. that'd make high damage ammo a interesting alternative to faction ammo."
"just need to roll this back up to page 1 so the csms might actually see it."
"signed.the extra trainingtime is almost not worth flying the best looking dread in game,... almost :"
"support"
"supported."
"uggh double post :/"
"very much signed"
"supported"
"1.0"
"thumbs up."
"supported"
"we submitted our logo early november 2007.after almost 10 months the status is still \"pending\".i can speak for the entire tenth legion when i say, we fully support any attempt at getting an update on the logo submissions."
"we actually lodgd our logo using the last system, but we still never got it ingame : please get this sorted or at least update the infosupport"
"/signed.please get this sorted."
"most definitely! as my wonderful bosslady already said,"
"supported"
"didn't read, but agreed."
"yup this is definitely something needs to be reintroducd."
"we subbmitted our alliance logo via teh old system. was told it would go live in the next content patch. only for it not to go it and to be told we would have to resubmit it.6 months later we are still waiting for someone to get there thumb from somewhere very dark and get the 'new' system sorted"
"s<U+FFFD>!"
"signed, sir!"
"this ones a no brainer."
"/signed"
"noit's too easy to lose standings, much too hard to get it back. interesting idea, but no nerfting outlaws, kthx."
"i wrote a thread with some very similar ideas a good while back but it's seems to be deleted now hohum, anyway needless to say i'm all for anything that ill fix this part of the game."
"great idea."
"/signed"
"been wanting this for a long time, using an alt to keep your iskies safe while trading is so bothersome..."
"i support this idea."
"yes, please balance this out.and, please try to limit the \"nano\" nerf to not killing non-namo blaster boats ie: gallente cruiser, battlecruiser and battleships"
"i mined with an arbitrator 2 mining laser iis, mining laser upgrade, 5 mining drones, and a mining drone rig for quite a while, and was content. once i finally got access to mining barge, i compared the stats of the procurer and the retriever for about 10 seconds, and never gave the former a second thought! sad, sad, sad. /me loves his retriever. supported!"
"indeed it went wrong.. and it is called drones and loot refining"
"procurer needs some buffs.some i can think of:should be able to hold 5 light drones scout or mining droneswould be nice if it had a bonus similar to the vexor for mining drones only, that would solve it's yield problem easily."
"yeah, the procurer could also get a boost to mining amount...but not veldspar. holy **** we have enough veldspar miners in hisec as it is. should get a bonus to hedgberdite and the other one found in .3 and lower."
"yeah the procuror needs some sort of bonus.not sure what ... but something."
"well, let me check my log...no alts... checklimited play time rl 9 to 5, etc,etc,etc... ... checkrun an average of one l4/evening unless i get courier missions, than more, but less......checkaverage time played/evening...3.5 to 4 hours... check yup, i average about 5 to 6 million isk/hour, so maybe i am the worst mission runner in eve.do you believe that one should have various alts on multiple accounts, to run missions in this game? if so, what seperates you from a macro miner?i also wanted to comment on the \"sliding scale agent\" idea. must be the first time i ever heard players ask for, what is essentially, a geographical nerf... lastly, someone else pointed out the most obvious flaw:nerfing l4 missions would, in the end, result in a significant increase in the power of 0.0 alliances. low sec will still suck..."
"hmmm, goons want to nerf the lvl 3/4 missions in high sec so they can \"farm\" noobs all day without moving from the gate.0.0 pay is worse than lvl 4 well then goons you obviously fail, move off the gate once in a while and stop suicide ganking noobs in high sec and explore a bit more you might find some nice cash making activities.alternatively go run a few lvl 3 or 4 missions in low sec you get more isks for your risk, oh wait that is what you want right? so this thread fails, the idea fails."
"either realise that more people than goons want this to happen, or take that tinfoil drivel back to caod, troll."
"avarage l4 pays out 3mln for misson 3mln for bounty and random number of loot can be 1mln-20mln. you do 1 lvl 4 in 15 minutes + looting 5 minutes. soyou earn at leasst 18mln a hour."
"must be nice to be you..."
"complete bs and i stay on my original statement. i play in general less hrs/evening than you. i got a normal t1 raven thats mostly t2 fitted. i only have a single account. and i can easily make 20+ mill/hr. i'd make more if i bothered to max my ravenskills and/or get cnr/factionmods.the only way you can justify your numbers is if you make up some silly statistic and count your complete playtime and not just the time spent on generating isk through missions. then i can make an equally silly statement and claim i made something like -5 mill/hr ratting in 0.0 last month."
"umm,you are mistaken.i use a raven with t2 equipment. 1 in every 4 missions i get is a courier mission that, as i said, is fairly quick, but pays much less than a million isk/mission.a kill mission like damsel takes at least 2 hours from the time i accept the mission until the time i have completed salvaging.a kill mission like wc takes me 3 to 4 hours, in total, to complete."
"you take a little nap in the middle then or?"
"nah, takes a hell of a long time to kill the frigates."
"only if you go with the assumption that you can make more than 15 million an hour running l4s, which seems to be a key assumption in your argument. perhaps you can do that, i don't know. i know i can't. not even close.point not made.oh yes, clearly i'm a total moron because i disagree with you and refuse to accept your assertions at face value.let me clarify something for you - this is the second sentence from your post above: i don't see any qualifiers there. you wrote it as an absolute. you should not be surprised if someone responds to it the way you yourself phrased it. now that someone's refuting it you try and dodge it as 'well there are exceptions of course' and then try and downplay them as uncommon etc all without any kind of evidence or qualifier.not the only exception by any means. regardless it's a largely irrelevant point. i don't like playing squash either but that doesn't make my opinion any less valid if i speak out in support of those who do enjoy it. indeed it probably makes it more significant as it's not personal bias.oh, i assure you i'm not lying. lucky? if so it's an extremely unusual sort of luck. i have only my own experience to go on and that of folks that i trust and believe which does not include you in this case. i see no overwhelming evidence of this unbelievable luck.really? you don't consider what you wrote above an absolute statement? let's check it shall we? first statement includes the term 'accept the fact'. not 'the evidence' or some other term. \"fact\". your term not mine. you then go on to state that 'it's so obvious a fact that i'm amazed they can't accept it.' you then go on to disparage anyone who disagrees with you as doing so purely for profit motives a statement which clearly doesn't include largely non mission running me.you would be hard pressed to form a paragraph more absolute than the above max. you have no qualifiers, no outs of any kind. it's a 'fact' which is 'obvious' and leaves you 'amazed' that others will not 'accept' it.yep. nothing absolute about that at all. not even a little bit. kindly note the sarcasm literally dripping from the previous three sentences.sorry, no. you have made assertions backed up by a bunch of numbers pulled out of the air and compared to no numbers at all.you'll have to do far better than that."
"nope. not everyone has the same level of skill or the expenditure in the really optimized rigged mission ships.worlds collide takes me closer to 5 hours to complete and usually i pretty much need to have a second player for the hard bit. that's including loot and salvage.the first l4 i soloed was a blockade and it took 6 hours and about 2 minutes. i know because i just barely missed getting the time bonus for it. and that doesn't include the final looting and salvaging.not everyone can run missions as fast as some can. they just aren't as good."
"there is an extreme imbalance that seems to exist in game that has created some logistical nightmares.in 0.0 you have the great high end rocks of arkanor, bistot, and crokite. they're very valuable, if you're in it for the isk.if you're in it to produce though, there is an extreme imbalance of the availability/quality of the lower end ores that produce the ever needed trit, isogen, and mexallon.for example capital ship production can easily consume 100m tritanium. to get those level of resources you would need to mine 35,000,000 units of concentrated veldspar.the average spawn in 0.0 space of veldspar rocks in a 4 - 6 belt system may at most yield about 2,497,500 units of veldspar across the three class of roids.i know there was discussion of changing the mechanics of belts in general which i don't know how i feel/agree with it, and there are mechanics that let you get ore from empire out to 0.0 or vice versa. however since the rorqual can't be used in <0.4 you end up buying uncompressed minerals or uncompressed asteroids. if you need 100m of tritanium that's about 1 billion of volume. to move that level of tritanium out of empire and into 0.0 you would need to easily jump 10 freighter loads. the logistical chain for that is a bit of a nightmare, and economically unfeasible.that's where the compression of minerals into items came from by building them into something small, shipping them, re-processing them, yet that was nerfed near the trinity release. the jump freighter was introduced as a supposed fix to this but it flat out doesn't hold enough to make it economical, never mind the cost of the ship itself.i think what the challenge here is that while in 0.0 the rorqual when used as a compression platform can take 16,000 m3 of arkonor and turn it into 800 m3 of compressed arkanor, there is nothing in empire that can do this. sure in 0.0 you can compress 16,650 m3 of veld to 417 m3 of compressed veld but there isn't a veld shortage in empire, and it is not economical to do so in 0.0 compared to the value that arkonor, bistot, and crokite have value to compress and move to empire trit has no value such as that and no way to reduce the mass for logistical purposes.so i guess this is a request to release the orca that was mentioned so long ago.i would think making something that could fit three mining links, and small tractors, yet hold a decent amount of ore and the ability to compress 'the low ends' such as the minerals that don't require refinery efficiency to specialize in veld, scordite, pyroxes, omber, hemorphite, jaspet, kernite only.i would envision it having a cargo hold of 20,000 m3 half the rorqual's base and only the special ability of being able to fit 3 mining links and industrial core, along with two highs for small tractor beams. i would think leaving the capital tractor & clone bay to the rorqual. make it as about as maneuverable as an indy to give it half a chance to get away from pirates and a drone bay about half the size of the rorqual for some level of defense. you could do two lows, and 5 mid slots.so this wouldn't be a 'capital' class ship requiring 'capital' skills. however it could require say tactial shield manipulation 4, shield operation 4, advanced starship 1, and mining barge 5 to fly the thing, and then the bpos for the lows are supported by a new module but you can't compress anything that requires refinery efficiency.this way, you would have empire loving folks able to put compressed ore up for sale and then null-sec loving folks the ability to move large amounts of un-refined ore to their respective manufacturing hubs."
"definitely supported, the orca needs to be put back on the table.i see a handful of possible market side effects, however:bringing ore compression and other mining logistics to empire will make it easier for isk farmers and macro miners to mine, which is bad. empire ores and the minerals derived from them will go down in value as mining efficiency and capacity increase, which is bad for the honest empire miners.on the other hand, making empire mining less lucrative will encourage more pilots to accept risk by migrating toward 0.0, which is overall desirable for game balance."
"your numbers are bad - 100m trit is 1 million m3, not 1 billion. that's a little over one freighter load. aside from that, i'd be interested in seeing something that could compress minerals in highsec for logistics purposes, like a rorqual. for that matter, i'm not sure i'd be offended by the thought of rorquals being like jfs and bos, and being able to use gates, though i'd be careful with that idea."
"if i read correctly, he was commenting on the volume of the veldspar containing 100million units of trit, not the direct volume of the trit itself."
"supported. very good idea.now where's my $20 j/king"
"why not do do something about the veld in 0.0. make it have like 5x-10x the refine rate instead of the 5% and 10% bonus. then it becomes practical to mine or at least less failure. atm most of my trit in 0.0 comes from rat loot."
"the reason i didn't suggest a new roid is that i think it would open it up for abuse by macro mining.there are lots of truesec -0.1 to -0.3 systems out there. if there aren't any major battles going on it's pretty easy to wander around and find spots where there are isk farming ratters that just sit there for days shooting <700m reward leaving all the wrecks. i can see something like a 5x or 10x the trit roid being beaten to death.yes the orca can be abused the same way in empire. however, if someone wanted to put a concerted effort into stopping it you don't have to worry about making your way through a hostile power block to the 'uncharted' regions of 0.0 that no sov. exists to find them."
"yeah, but what idiot carries around veldspar? you dock up, refine, and move the trit. well, unless you're chribba, but the op isn't."
"ok for completeness. i am a fan of a complete revamp of asteroids in eve. the sec status in a region where an asteroid first appears in will stay with normal ore. say 1.0 for veldspar and -.3 for arkonor. above that by .5 and you are in a a 50% yeild zone so 50% ark is up to .2. below that by .5 and you are in a 50% increased yeild zone. so down to .5 you have 150% yeild veld and down to -.8 you have 150% arkonor. at the end of each .5 band is another so from .5 to 0 veld is at say 2x. below that you have a progression. the numbers are entierly made up and subject to balancing but the point is that the empire in more developed areas have systematically mined down the best of each asteroid until only poorer asteroids exist now. this would make low sec mining always more valuable than high sec mining because you can grab 1.5x veld instead of 1x veld if trit is the most profitable mineral to mine or switch to another. there will be sweet spots people who pay attention will capitalize on around .5 and 0 sec status and a reward for holding deeper truesec for miners instead of just ratters. the whole thing shouldn't be too difficult to program if the current system uses sec status to determine the ore in the belts anyway.this also makes sure that mining veld in 0.0 is a better source of tritanium than rats because that bothers me more than probably anything else. i can't mine any significant qty of trit for my production needs in my hulk but a few hours gives me the zyd and mega for a bs."
"i appreciate your stance on completely revamping. however i think that's a separate topic.what i'm asking for is a logistics issue more than a 'what rock can i shoot' or 'i want high value stuff in empire/not in empire' thing.what i'm pointing to is this.i need a ton literally of trit out in 0.0. based on how roids spawn, it's impossible to mine a ton without taking down 3 - 4 systems.in empire there is a large population of people that are happy to mine said ton as there is a higher ratio of veld rocks compared to 0.0.333 veld rocks refined = 1000 trit, or 10m3 of storage space.so i need 100,000,000 units of trit, or 1,000,000 m3 of space.however, if i could buy compressed ore in empire1 compressed veld cube = 417 m3 of space in a hold.refined, it equals 500,000 units of trit taking up 5000 m3 of space.to get 100,000,000 units of trit i would need 200 compressed veld cubes at 83400 m3 of space to transport."
"again, your math is a problem. if a compressed veld cube is 500k trit in 417 m3, then you'll need 200 of them, and 83,400 m3 of space."
"you caught me before my edit went through. :"
"if someone thinks capturing systems is pointless i can see your point. there is no risk/reward there. another thing that is lacking in fw."
"one other thing that needs to be addressed in fw:when you go in and snatch a complex away from enemies that have opened it you should recieve credit for capping it off and denying it to the enemy, regardless if the system is contested or not.under the current system if you are in a system, say caldari, that is not contested and the gallente open a plex but you run them out you should recieve some points for denying them the opportunity to force the system into contested status."
"please don't change the techlab forum.thx"
"another gratuitous bump for keeping the tech lab. it serves a very different purpose to what the game dev forum is for.for more details see"
"so nobody cares about sov issues, eh ?where are all the \"cap ships online\" or \"pos warfare is boring\" whiners when you need them..."
"drafting a compromise proposal with multiple contributors and trying to market them to the primary beneficiaries, all capsuleers. go get on board the speakers corner threads and help us get a proposal that sticks."
"i think about ,something like a gatekeeper,you put it on a gate fuel it and only alliance members can jump through or blues or well what you set it for.posses won`t claim sov.the gatekeeper will claim sov all the way to the next gatekeeper.meaning you can atack a alliance maybe from 3 sides .put your own gatekeeper in place and ......this just brainstorming ofc ,just a idea how you also can think.side effect is it will keep out isk farmers also .and also that it is your space that no1 can enter.and now you need to defend the borders of your m-pire."
"/signed"
"although you sort of touched on it you never mentioned some of the majot problems with unused rigs..e.g hybrid rigs-any hybrid boat e.g. ferox, eagle is insanely tight on pwg, the fact that they make guns use more grid means they are never used, sure these rigs do need a downside, but the current drawback is just redicoulous, make it eye-for-an-eye e.g more hybrid dmg but less tracking, more tracking lower falloff etc etcedit: but supported on the general concept ;"
"i actually dont agree on this - i think gun rigs are quite nicely balanced for drawbacks, but suffer from problems with stacking. i'd like to give them a bigger bonus to make them more popular to fit, rather than change the pg drawback, which is a very balanced mechanic. plenty of boats have the grid to use gun rigs - you often see amarr bs, zealots, etc, with locus rigs, and boats like the mega and rokh can too. the eagle and ferox have less grid because they received an extra turret recently, but with not quite enough extra grid. being tricky to hybrid rig them is presumably intended when those ships got boosted."
"final tweak on post 17non-specific proposal for new hull with conditional demands coordinated gang action fleet boosting capabilities. specific example provided.missing rolejumbles of snipers and aimless globs of hullseve combat is many times very disorganized, with the only coordination being when globs of ships warp in and when they're in a long train aligned towards gate xyz. not only is the boring and visually unappealing, but indicates a lack of effective means to apply fleet maneuvers to much affect. short range and medium range bs's that would be able to perform such maneuvers and benefit from them need more tools to overcome their tactical limitaions.the river of flagship requestson another front, a lot of people have been asking for a \"flagship\" hull to lead the charge admittedly a number of proposals seem to be written by people with no business as fc's who are more interested in a heavy assault bs but all of the designs suffer from the reality that an expensive ship serving an important role that's exposed to bs fire on a busy overview will be the first ship to be popped. no matter if it can tank ten bs's or twenty, it will go down when there are hundreds.heavy commandships are boringwhile the role of a flagship seems exciting at first mention, designs proposed thus far are pitched as heavy command ships, but command mods only offer a non-conditional buff to stats. performing the role of a commander in such a ship thus resembles flipping a switch and going on with business as usual. not to mention that we already have command ships and only three types of racial command mods, so increasing command slots is unimaginative and without much of a unique role.a true flagship would be creating coordination from the typical disorganization of eve combat, and to great effect. if it's a ship fit for an fc, it should be doing some real leading.how to fill itthe very definition of a fleet command battleship thus should focus on increasing the ability of its gang members to engage the enemy on favorable terms. for battleships, this means creating opportunities for short range bs's and medium range bs's to overcome their tactical weakness against cookie-cutter sniper wings. short range and medium range setups already have advantages, but the new hull should work to fortify those advantages while also trying to eliminate some more pressing disadvantages.for the short range bs, getting bubbled, being out of range, or getting warped in on are the primary threats. to the medium range bs, the ability to exacerbate tracking advantages against pure sniper setups is the underused keyhole. therefore, i propose that a new ship class be fielded to fill the roles needed for medium range and short range bs's to have more viability in fleet engagements.in the process of performing these duties, it's possible to limit the exposure to sniper bs fire and thus save such a hull from certain insta-popping and a waste of another bs hull in an ineffective t2 role."
"t2 fleet bs's as super tanks will fail. here's a better survival techniquethe web nerf part of the greater speed nerf patch getting tweaked on sisi means there's now a better way to tank that doesn't involve a gazzillion hp or going five times fast.webs are going down to ~50% and what this means is you can't truly be pinned like we're all used to. the stacking bonus is live on tq, but since the second 90% web generally puts you at about effective standstill, who cares. with 50% webs, your maximum slowdown is quite a bit less.speed tanking against your own tier guns to reduce damage can be done pretty effectively with an ab, and it's no longer the case that you're going ~25% base velocity with an ab after the first web. surviving at-tier guns well for a bs means it's not very exposed to sniper fire and will only have to pick up the slack from support ships flocking all over it. a quick look at some damage curves vs typical sniper setups will convince you how quickly an ab setup can mitigate damage.any viable ship for leading the charge will have mwd speed without the sig increase of a mwd. giving a role bonus to ab is the way to go to base a workable t2 bs for general pvp."
"without further ado, a specific example of a proper fleet marshall bsroleplay garbage:realizing that moar paperweights were completely boring an ineffective in the face of fleet firepower, the four empires began devising new hulls for fleet maneuvers with effective capability to punch through enemy formations and lead the charge. [piratey tarzan yell]base stats tweaking:beefing is focused on base speed, less mass, agility, sig radius, and large capacitor. nerf pg down to below requirements for six long range turrets. should be a too tight on grid for fleet setups. give up some ground in other non-role stats.hyperion based examplegallante engineers chose to build upon the struggling hyperion. starting with the base structure and armor repair systems, a propulsion system based upon two full megathron class thruster arrays was incorporated and the blaster hardware was completely reworked with a focus instead on mobile firepower and exceptionally robust capacitor.role bonus: 100% bonus to afterburner thrust and speed increase.99% cpu reduction to formation warfare links more details to followgallante battleship skill bonus:7.5% bonus to effectiveness of armor repair systems per level.7.5% to large hybrid turret tracking speed per levelfleet marshall skill bonus:5% bonus to capacitor capacity per level5% bonus to large hybrid turret damage per levelformation warfare links?t2 roles. two new high slot modules.fleet deployment linkgives user the capability to lock on to warp signatures on grid and warp directly to them. e.g. when a titan presses, \"warp speed mr. sulu,\" and happens to be coming to your grid, an icon pops up on your overview ship size known maybe? and you can select it and warp to target. balance issues will dictate time delay etcwith the nano nerf, engaging targets is going to be even more difficult for medium and short range bs's. this will also allow the ~1bn isk ship to do something useful by allowing support to get on top of their prey faster.formation fighting linklayman's terms:it makes you go faster if you're in gang, within range 25km-ish, heading the same direction as the flagship, and using an ab or mwd.details:dot product of your ship and the flagship's normal headings * speed increase amount * whatever your normal mwd speed is. result is you go faster as you head the same direction as the flagship and go slower if you're going the wrong way running away from your friendly gang's formation the formation fighting link should be scripted for two modes:increase formation mwd speed and decrease capacitor burn to allow for emergency sprints of short range bs's for escaping bubbles or getting in range. rp reason is the ships coordinate mwd space bending effect, making them more efficient and powerful. flagship itself gets a speed boost to keep up with its own gang.increase ab speed boost and increase capacitor burn. this is for driving a high transverse situation in an extended maneuver with medium range guns set up for high tracking to still deliver high dps in the high transverse situation, tearing an overfocused sniper wing using optimal range scripts to pieces."
"two flavorsall hull classes come better in pairs.starfleet marshalldesigned for fleet settings where it's ability to resist tacklers and tank the risidual dps is more of an issue. less grid, extra tanking slot, and maybe swap the damage bonus for a bonus to ewar drones to help keep tacklers at bay.squadron marshalldesigned for smaller engagements where it's expected to make a meaningful dps contribution and still resist tacklers somewhat. enough grid for fitting the special mods and some mid-sized large short range turrets or smallest large long range turrets. reduce tanking slots by one compared to starfleet marshall and reduce overall hp a bit.usagefit a 100mn ab and go fast with no sig increase and inherent exposure to firepower. fit the smallets large turrets you can come up with and use the grid recovered from the small requirements of an ab and those turrets to allow a few heavy neuts to slide in. this is primary protection from support. your tracking should be ridiculous for large turrets, meaning you always have the advantage when on the move. the ship's primary weakness is being tackled, and it has tools to help cope with that; tracking bonus on top of smaller turret's superior tracking and the obvious choice of neuts since it lacks grid for a full rack of anything.solo pwnmobile?it's close to a solo pawn mobile in the same way that recons are, but like recons lacks the capability to really gank ships and often just annoys a lonely ratter in a belt. they are force multipliers. it takes a second ship to make recons truly deadly. fleet marshalls likewise are force coordinators. they need something to coordinate to truly become effective.in closingthis is just a specific example of how i would do it. ccp can come up with whatever they want, but seeing jumbled up blobs of snipers or long trains aligned to the pos is disappointing. any solution should provide enhanced tactical capabilities to gangs that look like they have a clue what they're doing. maybe we'll get some nice battles that look like the trailers"
"it's a sound idea, but for 1 thing...these big monster tanks with their t2 resists and huge buffers should not recieve any weapon rof or damage bonuses whatsoever, and be heavily penalized for fitting damage mods.it is a fleet core, it provides bonuses above and beyond and stacking with those of lesser command ships in the same fleet perhaps even enhancing the ganglinks equipped on those ships as well as the specialized links it is running.they drop into the middle of the enemy formation and suffer the brunt of their firepower while providing such a large margin of enhancement to their fleet that the enemy will find it necessary to primary the super tank first in hopes to bring the engaging fleet down to a more managable level.much like current command ships that offer massive tanks but relatively little outright gank."
"while it's true that gallente would be at an advantage, why is this different than any other drone advantage they already have? sure, you could fit a webber yourself, or you could carry webber drones. you could fit tracking disruptors, or you could carry disruptor drones. you could even fit miner lasers high slot example for ya!, or carry some miner drones.so show me where salvagers are such an detriment to gameplay...1 salvaging doesn't really \"take effort\", and it's not terribly elite, when any business 10 step will give you the skillbook for free. and yes for those who didn't know, even if you started out industry or military, you can go around to the others and get their free stuff too.2 larger bays vs. bandwidth = amarr. larger bandwidth vs bay = gallente. so now you're saying you envy the amarr as well as the gallente?3 gunships do have to sacrifice dps if they fit something else, because they're gunships... and they lose out on dps if they fit a proper tank too. if you want max dps, then you probably can't do much else besides fight, and that includes keeping yourself alive if your target starts shooting back. so maybe gunships aren't your best example?some ships would work better with the salvager drone option than others... there's no argument there. but that's no different than any other module out there. interceptors make better use out of mwd than an exhumer ever will... so what's the point? my point is, that everyone would benefit all around if salvager drones were available, some more than others... but everyone to some degree. that hac gunship could fit his usual guns and carry a salvager for cleanup. and that droner would still have to sacrifice space and bandwidth to carry salvagers when he could be carrying ogres instead."
"oh yeah, sorry, i forgot about marauders. i'll just go spend several hundred mill on the only specialised salvage ship in eve.right... so i take it tracking disruptors, sensor damps, and most other e-war modules should be nerfed too cause they're better against gun ships than drone ships? also, many gun ships have utility slots that could easily be used to fit a salvager without really losing any dps. if salvager drones were made as medium drones, all battleships could field them, but smaller ships other than specialised drone ships would have difficulty fitting them. that difficult enough for you?/supported"
"you're naive.my executioner is perfect for salvaging. ask your mission bear friends.lows: overdrive injector ii, nanofiber internal structure iimids: small capacitor battery ii, 1mn afterburner iihighs: salvager i, salvager irigs: salvage tackle i, salvage tackle i, salvage tackle ibefore you go making such a blanket statement such as that, do your homework. most of us ninja salvagers do. just because you run missions doesn't mean you're exempt from needing to think.no support from me, unless they suddenly give my executioner a dronebay."
"spread the mining related implants accross more slots.at the moment, there are+ slot 7 - michi's excavation augmentor+ slot 8 - zainou 'beancounter' h40, h50, h60+ slot 10 - inherent implants 'highwall' hx-1, hx-2, hx-3 - inherent implants 'highwall' hy-1, hy-2, hy-3 - inherent implants 'yeti' bx-1, bx-2, bx-3 - mining foreman mindlinkfor example, move the hy serie to slot 9,the bx serie to slot 8 and the mindlink to slot 6."
"it's been said before. mining could use some changes, but it does not need an overall buff."
"/signedall aspects of mining need to be addressedbig mining fleets should be out there, printing moneypirates should be stealing from themand enemies should be looking for waying to bump them out of the prime areas"
"i'd like to see the creation and implementation of mining accidents. yes, let's see that happen, because i'll tell you, the fact that npc rats spawn in a belt is in no way a deterrent or even a mild irritation. in fact, it's laughable.sure, i don't know how it could be done, but it might improve the risk vs. reward argument of those who say mining is playing eve offline."
"since 90% of petitons come back with the advice to dump your cache, why not hardcode it into the eve client? just hit esc, press 'dump cache' problem solved."
"for the longest time i've wondered why there were no level 1-4 agents in 0.0 conquerable stations. especially now given that one of the biggest moans is that the risk/reward of level 4's in empire is not balanced. consider this:alliance pays for a random quality :level 1 agent : 10 mil/monthlevel 2 agent : 20 mil/monthlevel 3 agent : 40 mil/monthlevel 4 agent : 60 mil/monthlevel 5 agent : 200 mil/monthcould there be a better carrot to get the mission runners out of empire? i don't think there could be. not only that, you have something that makes your outpost more desirable, even if it's in crap space. and the cost per month i just pulled out of my ass. i don't know what the cost of an agent should be"
"prices are a bit low indeed you have posted, overall good idea. it would no doubt make 0.0 more attractive place as currently main problem is that all the resources in most of 0.0 have maximum population density they can support. you can't just jam 100 pilots into one station in there and expect them all to find something worthwhile to do in the vicinity."
"interesting concept, though i'm not sure it makes sense fluffwise. worth considering though."
"i like it.however, i'd rather tie it to standings. a corp can have standings towards an npc corp.i have no idea about how outposts work, but what if the controlling entitycorp/alliance? needs to have a standing of x in order to attract agents of level y in division z to come there?for example, if they have a standing of 6, they can chose agents of level 3 in divisions mining and manufacturing.more choices with higher standing, of course. numbers used are arbitrary."
"so you're paying someone... to give you missions... and to pay you for running them?where's the reward money coming from, except from the fees you're paying him to begin with?"
"where does the money come from for normal missions? the caldari just like killing guristas, and as long as you provide for their agent's hook...um, \"creature comforts\", they're willing to pay you to shoot them. rats don't only need killing in highsec, after all."
"basically it's like headhunters who search for doctors here in the states....you pay a guy, who in turn searches for the doc, who comes to your area and starts his own business based on your need. you're paying the headhunter the initial fee, but the services of the doctor and what he charges for them are completely separate.in the case of the agent, you pay the agent for the cost of bringing him there, knowing that the agent will want stuff done pirates killed, factions disrupted, etc and will pay well to see his agenda accomplished."
"no. missions are already a stupid mechanic no competition, infinitely scalability, etc. we don't need to put eve's focus even more onto them"
"damn why didnt i think of this?"
"all the resources need to behave this wayasteroids, moons, ice fields, complexes, even agents"
"no.this thread is full of people, many of whom i think will have had little or no lowsec experience aside from maybe being ganked in an ap hauler or some such.ramp up the damage from the guns and it will only result in bigger camps, which are harder to break, resulting in less fights and more gankage of unsuspecting passers by.the guns prevent the use of small fast tacklers and nanoships on the gates. that is good enough for me. stick to the highsec pipes if you don't want heavy camps.if you change this it will make things slightly harder for 'weaker' pirate corps but the big ones will still flourish and profit off the traffic the weaker camps are no longer picking up.op fails."
"sentries should be removed.they do not help those caught in a gate camp, sentries makes no difference to them.the only time sentries makes a difference is when pirates meets anti pirates, then they work as a excuse not to fight.keep sentries at high sec/low sec boarder gates and stations, remove the rest."
"i was all ready to expose this original idea, only to find out that different people have suggested it over the years. so, i'll give credit where it is due bottom of post and just stick to the facts.- capitals currently have an up front build cost, after which they exist forever until destroyed. there is a minimal per-use cost, relative to the value of the ship.- the proposal is to incur a maintenance cost to reflect the fact that these ships require significant economic resources to have in inventory and deploy- the nature of the maintenance cost is not specified in this proposal, but some people have suggested different levels of \"states\" that can offset some costs, such as mothballing resources and time are required to reactivate- hopefully this will encourage more use of conventional fleets in low-sec and 0.0 warfare- possible problem with the proposal is the higher cost of destroying enemy poses since more resources need to be available to maintain a capital fleet.edit: linkies updated references:linklinklinklinklinklinklinklink"
"i would love to see alliances spending a healthy portion of their rediculous amounts of isk, trying to \"maintain\" the dozen or so titans they keep bringing to a fight."
"ozone, stront and racial isotopes dont count as maintenance?"
"stront , ozone , heavy water , isotopes all consumed in huge quantity every time a capital moves or fights. and ofc you have the capital ammo : xl ammo & fighters both that are expensive as hell ."
"thanks for the replies. as i mentioned, the per-use cost is minimal compared to the acquisition cost. it is not \"huge\", and actually trivial for any well-organized alliance ice mining, etc.. depending on your alliance, fighter losses are replaced.what you describe is the statu quo. i know there's always resistance to change, but honestly the current build-up of capitals can't go on indefinitely for this game to survive. if you don't use it, it can stay in hangar indefinitely. this doesn't only apply to titans. if you want capitals to be badass muthers and act as a credible offensive deterrent, then you should have to maintain them.right now they are a permanent defensive fixture with unlimited gas mileage."
"so what you're saying is because alliances work to maintain their capital stocks - you think ice mining is free? or alliance-bought fighters? - then it's too easy? that's just nonsensical. as for requiring maintenance to keep them in hangar, i'd agree that it's unrealistic, but this is a game. gameplay comes before fluff."
"actually, i could see this for super-capitals since they never dock in stations thus don't have any of the station services to assist in upkeep. not sure what sort of fee would be incurred--isk, trade goods, ice fuel--but it could be a nice curb for the titan population explosion....actually, i lie. it won't do a damned thing to the titan/mothership population because the alliances that field titans won't have any issues paying to play, as it were. you might impact the smaller players who use supercaps, but probably not and they wouldn't be the real targets for this anyway.its a good idea, might help a bit, but ultimately it won't do more than be an annoyance at best for capital pilots."
"so you are making a proposal of change based on the assumption that alliances pay for the maintenance costs of capital ships? so by hitting a minority that may be getting some of these costs covered you are willing to penalize the majority of the cap pilots that has to pay their maintenance costs already?burdening game play is not the way to go if you want to genuinely control the caps online issue. there has to be a better way than making this akin to pos logistics which bites **** in the first place."
"i'm not saying any of those things. i've always been thankful to alliance industrials for providing fuel, ammo, and fighters, and i know that producing them is as much a pita as maintaining poses. all i'm saying is that the current capital situation cannot continue forever.perhaps the impact will be limited on the richer alliances. but then again having a constant drain on your resources will impose a limit on just how many caps you can support, and it opens opportunities for conventional warfare. it certainly is better than the current outlook, which will have alliances able to field dozens of titans eventually. it's just a matter of time.i'm saying no such thing. i'm saying no one is paying maintenance on capitals or any ships whatsoever at this time, and that they should. for operational expenses which are not maintenance, most alliances i or my alts have been in provided stront, fuel, ammo, fighters, etc. for ops. doesn't yours? which minority are you referring to?i entirely agree, being a pita in a game is not good design. i'd really like to hear about other suggestions to limit cap use, or at least make it more fun.i see that people are getting hung up on pos-like mechanics as maintenance, which i really didn't have in mind. when alliance industrials were talking about pos refueling, it made my eyes bleed, so i can imagine what actually refueling them must feel like argh.i wanted to stay away from describing something because it can be nitpicked and the bigger issue lost. but here goes: how about \"non-repairable damage\" being applied to shields/armor/structure or \"ship bonus reduction\" over time, and you have to pay isk to get it back to 100% efficiency. maybe lower cap costs and increased maintenance, so that people will be less shy to use them and lose them in mixed cap/conventional fleets."
"that be nice.an inbox and a sent view styled as a table with sortable toon, alliance, corp, date and subject columns no re: or fw: prefixes because that messes up the sort. a reply, reply to all and a forward button. resizeable preview window.that's enough to begin with i think. drafts, api support and such things can come later.the corp links mentioned, wouldn't it be better with a few more editable fields on the corp info for that?"
"it happened again! this time i lost 120mil. this sucks. i caught the 3 key right next to enter. also on this occassion i received no warning box despite the item being trading between 13-23 mil it accepted my by of 135mil without question. in reply to nande yanen who says im lazy for not checking. why don't you read my post properly. as i said previously i caught an extra key as pressing the enter key. this has nothing to do with being lazy. the price i had typed in was fine before that. also in reply to nande who says \"this is nothing more than a fix for inattentiveness.\" this cannot be right if the item is being sold on the market at a much lower price then that is what it should take out of your wallet. can you imagine going into the supermaket and buying a small item with a big note and instead of them giving you change they just say thank you very much and shut the till.furthermore i am not asking for a change in who gets the winning bid just the amount of money paid when there is a difference between buy order and sell order. therefore you whole argument is pretty irrelevant to this thread.not happy"
"replace your keyboard? ^_^;j/kbut still... either way... this can swing both directions.one party will say your not being careful about typing... the other will say we should have more confirmations but they will call that annoying.best of luck to yah either way."
"no need for more confirmations. just make it buy from/sell to the pre-existing orders rather than filling at the price you specify. simple, common sense, and acceptable for everyone except the random lucky slob who gets 10x more than he asked for occasionally."
"no. just be careful what you type in. we traders don't need to be babied.this is a broker system, if you offer to by item x at 1mil isk, but the going price is generally 200isk, of course the selling broker is going to take you up on the offer."
"i support the role bonus for the lachesis and arazu. also the low slot idea. i look at the damp strength rigs as well... they are only at 5% currently. one more thing: damps use a significant amount of cap for the payoff."
"damps work fine at fleet ranges, boosting their strength would overpower them there."
"if you use evemon, you should look at some of the non-public i.e. unavailable skills that could be available to you, and i would like to see one of them introduced/re-introduced into the game.warp navigation - skill at navigating in warp. 10% bonus to warp accuracy and 10% less max range from desired warp location per level.so, if you train this skill appropriately, you could reduce the amount of space between you and an object that you're warping to. it could be a bookmark, a jetcan, a fleeted corpmate, whatever. i don't care what you're using it for, but shouldn't this skill be trainable? wouldn't a pilot be able to train up so that he/she could better control his/her ship?you might have others that you're interested in, since there are more than a few of them, however, this is the one i'd like to see implemented."
"i'm supporting my post. you should too."
"i think that would be a good idea myself.warpping could use some minor improvements depending on the skills used.such as lower alignment times.... quicker accelerations to warp.... etc..etc.skills for training such things could take longer of course.. but the advantages would be rather nice./signed"
"the thing is, i'm pretty sure warp deviation right now is as close to zero as the game engine will allow. the warp navigation skill was created in an era when warp to zero didn't exist, and the minimum distance for warping to something was 15 km. this created a trade in \"insta\" bookmarks, set 15 km past a gate, that would allow you to wtz on the gate, and warp navigation was, i believe, one of their intended fixes to the problem of instas destroying their servers. ultimately, they just broke down and added wtz, thus making warp navigation useless and relegating it to the status of database trash. i would like the skill if, say, it made your warping fasteraccel/decel, top speed, or both. but in its current form, it would be utterly worthless, and probably not even possible to implement.we already have four separate skills that lower alignment times and quicken acceleration - two generic, two for specific ships. see spaceship command, evasive maneuvering, advanced spaceship command, and capital ships."
"no. it already takes around a month to get reasonable learning skills, around 3 to max them. you want to add more to that?worse, it will increase the gap between new and old players as new players will either have better things to train or will quit from boredom while those of us who have been here awhile will wind up training them to whichever level yields returns within the next year or so.it's painful enough building an alt and getting the learning skills up, i can't imagine going through three tiers of learning skills as someone with only one account."
"this is where i'm coming from. why would it be necessary to get tier 3 learning skills? it would just be neat to have something out there, say even more rare than 500 mil isk a pop. i don't really care about seperating veterans from new players. imo skill options should quadruple, there's not enough out there. there are people out there with 80 mil sps not flying caps and there are people out there flying caps with 30 mil sps. i want more diversity. i am not interested in fairness or even balance or even convenience. this is eve.living in the ghetto or in third world countries is pain. tier 3 learning skills is just some more icing to the cake."
"i understand your motivation, but what you fail to realize is that people will see these as being necessary. for taking a rank 3 to 512 days for me, and then a few more days to get the tier 3 to 4, i get +5.5 to an attribute. that's over a 20% increase, and that's really not optional. you'd be giving me a job - raising 2 billion of disposable cash - and calling it a present. and let's not even think of the reaction newbies will have to seeing a gigantic brick wall between them and the ability to even match the rate of skill increase the vets have, let alone feel themselves to be catching up. i'm not opposed to learning skills, but the amount of investment needed for the current ones - 2-4 weeks and 18 million - is reasonable, and well within reach for everybody. yours, requiring closer to 3 months and 2 billion, are not."
"lvl5 clarity returns of investement = 3 years. whats your point ?:p"
"really, where?"
"he is correct, i heard it at fanfest, and there is a dev post somewhere, where they say, and i am paraphrasing, that said something along the lines of: \"eve has become rather complex since inception, with additional things to learn and be better at, and maybe the learning skills were not such a good idea in hindsight.\""
"/signed"
"support"
"looks like a great idea."
"i like this idea."
"signed with the provision that vagas can fire while mwd'ing since they are supposed to be a fast attack cruiser and not a fast or attack cruiser"
"dont worry mwd delay will be gone and missile isnta own all smaller calss will be soon nerfed too. and then it will hit testing on sisi."
"/signed"
"and i suppose i'm the big evil carebear on the council, or so they say. i brought up mission improvements yesterday, and lavista vista is working on a complex plan to improve industry.if you have any ideas you would like to see addressed, please, speak up.*****actually i do,, first on my list is the courier contract system needs a revamp when contracts have a fee of 12,000 and a bond of 15 million that is just terrible game design.missons are dreadfully boring grind this system needs a huge overhaul also get away from the pew pew!mining for non-pvper hasnt changed since release still the same rock patches and the same ore and the same 1-3 rats in high sec.and as for combat there is no middle ground its all or nothing why? i know as a miner my skills will never be on par with pure pvpers so theres no way im going to waste my time being another target for them.thats why there are two eves high sec and low sec. and high sec is the red headed step child to the developers they hate us.theres not any big non-pvp corps because when they get too large they become a target and get wardeced every week and either they are forced to change to pvp or members leave the corp or the game.go read the star trek online forums,, many of the concerns there are from ex-eve people most od which are non-pvpers forced out of eve in fustration.i cant believe there wasting time on walking around whith all these systems broken for years."
"this has got to be a troll..."
"could you kindly link this 'eve insider' as in the minutes for each meeting? whenever i try to find it i just come back to the same old forums. i can't find details for meetings unless they're being addressed on a subforum.we are, we have been, but we have seen very little concrete direction that our concerns have been anything but 'escalated', very little has been addressed constructively, and a lot of the *ahm* csm's personal agendas have taken a considerable forefront to the concerns to the rest of the playerbase."
"you can tell by the posts that many of the responders are pvpers.there would be many more people playing eve if some of these areas were fixed and pvp was more player friendly.for me eve is a love/hate thing,,i love that eve is in some ways more serious and mature than other mmos and that there are some things in eve you can do semi afk instead of being forced to micro manage all the time, you can still do housework or wrangle kids or do homework ect and still acomplish things in game.but pvp has a crippling effect on non-pvp players and activities you cant very well go out with a 40 million isk miner where some wardec can come along and blow it up, same for hauling goods around the galaxy so what few non-pvpers are still toughing it out sit chating in hangers waiting for the war to end and hope that it wont be renewed.id love to haul player goods around the galaxy but the courier system is very crude and no faith in the system exists like with other real postal systems, you cant have a raw real postal system in a game, there is no supporting systems like a justice system that punishes thiefs and pirates.. so you have to do the next best thing,, make a workable system to do that is prety easy, take the transported goods out of the equaision,, transport tokens that represent goods,,,,this means that shippers are 100% sure of not loosing their goods. and for you pvpers you could say that this system isnt available in low sec space.as ive posted elsewhere,, there are two types of shipping,, boxed and bulkboxed a shipper buys a box 1-5-10-100-1000 and pays a fee based on size, distance risk and special handling.bulk the shipper buys a shipping contract based on a m3 price like a 1m3 box this allows any number of shippers to participate in the delivery only limited by their cargo size,if a hauler is unable to deliver the goods in a preset time there blone up or left the game ect,, the crates reappear back at the origin point for another hauling attempt untill the goods finally make it to the destonation"
"eve pvp is eve."
"i don't quite adhere to the \"eve is pvp\" philosophy, but it's a very real part of what makes the game more \"mature\", as you say. what would eve look like if losing your ship meant you respawned in hangar with some damage to your modules? t2 gear would be almost worthless, and faction/deadspace/officer gear would be nearly mandatory for everybody. what would that do to industrial production - a fairly \"carebear\" endeavour, but one that requires a shockingly bloodthirsty pvp model to attain depth in. as for your \"40 million isk\" miner, i have to say you're not very good as a miner if you're not into a hulk yet - a proper mining ship costs circa 200 mil these days, for the hull, 2 cargo rigs, and fit. but aside from that, even a highsec covetorwhich is what i assume you're flying can make back its cost in about four hours of mining if you have a hauler on hand, or maybe six if you don't. if you're any good at this game, you should keep a cash cushion on hand to allow you to deal with losses. also, wardecs have a 24-hour warning clock - you cannot possibly be blindsided by one and lose your ship. as for courier work, you really need to learn how to use collateral properly. if your goods are worth 100 mil, set the collateral at 150 mil, and if you lose it buy another and take the difference as a fee for the inconvenience. that's the beautiful thing about a robust market - replaceability."
"i think you brought up nerfs not improvments."
"also you havent taken into account that you dont need to hold ammo? hypes megas hell even ravens all need significant space for ammo amarr ships dont need such things since ammo is small compartivly for teh ammoutn of shots you get for t2 and faction t1 is infinite"
"you are a ******.also faction and t2 laser ammo does need spare in your cargo as it does run out. i support this idea as the abaddon eats through cap boosters like no other ship."
"lol. in other amarr bs people use the rig slots for resist bonus's or trimarks, maybe even damage mods. in the abaddon i suggest semi cells, cccs which are a fav on the other two as well. or the discharge one which really does wonders for cutting down the cap usage on guns."
"your abaddon needs 8 m3 for a full reload, my hyperion needs 80m3 for a reload. assuming each of us keeps two kinds of ammo on handi don't know about you, but i do, the abaddon has 4m3 more for cap boosters than the hyperion does. you cannot complain about that. also, the abaddon eats cap boosters just like every other battleship - you stick on a heavy injector, and eat them as fast as you can when you want to have everything running, and maybe ease off a little when you get in close and turn off the mwd. it wants them more than most, but it doesn't use them any faster."
"well there are moduals called cargo expanders and cargo optimisation rigs which all exist already if your cargo hold isn,t big enougth for you. ship fitting is optional and abbadon is already one of the best battle ships in game so stop whinging"
"you have to be ****ting me."
"no one said you had to fit your ship in an intelligent manner.specialized fits have little to no purpose but i suppose you could blow 90 million on cargo expander rigs so you could hold more cap charges. in the meantime i will enjoy looting your cap charges and start making more cargo expander rigs.the op is still asking for one of the best bs's in the game to be made even better and eliminate its only weakness which is pretty bold to say the least."
"i'm not in favour of a simple clean up mechanic... make it more involving. although a pos takedown is an arduous process, it's ironic how people are complaining about \"lazy\" pos owners not keeping them fueled so they want the game changing as they're too \"lazy\" to destroy it through a wardec.make the pos drop loot ie composite minerals or seed a new skill which allows you to deploy marines who will capture the pos over x amount of time.as chribba said, there is a potential to create a new mini profession which solves what appears to be aproblem for some people."
"interesting idea. but, in the spirit of 'risk v. reward' there's something lacking what do you think about something like this? when a tower goes oflline you can instandly start your unanchoring. but, such an action takes 50-unanchoring skill * 5 minutes to complete. and also sends the 'victim' a corporate mail than someone is trying to break into their pos.if your succesfull, you get away with a shiny new pos. if they're not sleeping you'll get an angry pos owner dropping by"
"yes of course the unanchoring attempt should take time, after all it takes a long time to unanchor normally so it wouldn't be more than right to have one attempt take at least the same amount of time as the normal unanchoring.as for risk vs rewards, you could easily be flagged towards the pos owners, and with the \"unanchoring module\" needing to be active for the duration of the attempt - there's your risk. or something along that line."
"i like the chribbas idea better than the op.have a module, possible requiring a skill based on hacking v, that can unanchor offlined foreign towers and structures. having a \"safe\" period for the offlined tower say 30 days is a possibility, but i do not think is needed.the \"hostile\" unachoring should take the same amount of time as a normal unachoring procedure, and the module has to be active throughout the whole period. if the unachoring attempt is disrupted it will fail and a new attempt can be made. the corp that owns the tower will be informed automatically by mail that their tower is under threat and the perpetrator will be criminally flagged towards the corp.edit: same module or maybe the normal hacking module should be able to hack structures to give access to storage. time required could be 15 minutes or so and again the owning corp will get informed by mail of hostility towards their assets."
"the goal of all of my suggestions has 1 theme. reduce the concept of shooting stationary structures for endless amounts of time. furthermore, any change which requires people to police and maintain their space more effectively either through better stewardship or by superior pvp skill are the best changes. an offlined tower is nothing but a boat anchor, after anything important has been popped. a mechanic for the scooping of the tower or any hostile anchor module should be put in place. personally, 30 days is way too long. what i would like to see as a compromise would be, 1. for any offlined tower, any attempt to unanchor a tower from someone who does not have the roles to do so causes a notification mail to be sent to the owner only during a 3 day period from the time the tower went offline. after 3 days, no notification of unanchoring will be sent.2. tower unanchoring skill, tie it to hacking if you like, or whatever and have a second module unanchoring less sp requirements to unanchor modules, pos mods/bubbles. i am not to sure on exact details, but a chance/skill based method would be a nice compromise.-----the 3 day stipulation is there because, quite frankly, the stewards of the pos have already received enough mails about resources being low that they should know whats going on. it was a decision by ccp to not allow people the ability to unanchor others stuff. if you tie the concept of pos installations to sov, any change which promotes more active participation in holding sov, instead of just putting up huge hp buffers which require extreme boredom, are good changes and certainly not whining. sov should be about combat capability, logistics and maintence, and politics. right now hp rules all and boredom is its *****, nobody likes repping for hours, and nobody likes shooting for hours as well... these small changes help all corps and alliances."
"personally i'd be more amicable to a 'lose shield at the recharge rate the start of the offline mode' so that if you found said failed pos it'd be easier to kill as the longer it's been offlined as the shield has been failing over time.if it's also offlined the armor/structure starts taking damage as the shield can't stop blah blah blah insert rp stuff here from damaging it so eventually they just explode on their own say, 30d of offline"
"basically, the concept is that the asset is remains an asset and not a black hole of hp after a tower is left to go offline. this would put more emphasis on careful maintanence of pos installations/sov, and not just, \"oh well if someone wants to waste the ammo they can then ahve the moon\" there is really nothing stopping teh simple change, i never understood restricitions on unanchoring other peoples stuff. there needs to be limits of course but the status quo shouldn't be acceptable"
"im all for the pos being removed after such and such time has passed.we've just unanchored ours and it is quite involving... but honestly... if people don't clean up after themselves... they should either be salvageable... loot-able... and easily destroyed like any other \"destroyable\" object in eve.something... somehow... must be done./signed emphatically"
"/signed"
"very bad idea.looks like gankers want an even easier kill ... don't want to work at it at all and propose no new mechanism to balance out the removal of local."
"you got to be one of the biggest n00bs in the world .you ever heard of a info chan ? you presence in 0.0 is monitored by the time you enter controled 0.0 . or you thought yourself the holy spirit , unseen , unheard of and totaly innocent ?learn to hunt and then you will get plenty of kills ."
"after having tried to play through this mission last night, i went to looking up mission guides for it.first i checked eve-survival.org, as the usual suspect. no real info on running it. just damage figures...which were huge. ok...so i googled it and looked around.the best advice i can find from anywhere on how to solo this mission is: don't.as pve in eve is mainly a solo activity, in fact it didn't even have options for group play until fairly recently, i think a level 4 that's nearly impossible to solo is a bit out of line.i'd like ccp to take a look at this mission and possibly tone it down a bit to make it more in-line with other level 4 missions, especially considering the lack of bounties and the mediocre reward for this mission.this could be done by either slowing down the spawn rate a wave every 4min, currently, setting it to the normal trigger system, making the gate easier to blow up so blitzing is possible, or any number of other ways i'm sure.please take a look at this mission, thanks."
"i support myself.with both hands."
"please don't try cramming more info on to the overview - its got enough going on as is - and not to mention on occasion its just plain wrong."
"ive spoken to a few people and read many posts on it in other forums, would it be possible for the csm to bring up the issue of the font to ccp. it is really difficult to read and some characters require the use of say windows magnifier to be able to distinguish them from similar characters. so, selectable fonts please ? or something similar : my eyes hurt :"
"i suspect that eve draws its font from a font file. find it and modify it?"
"blinky on to something? using eve voice also has the advantage of using your account instead of registeringthe difficulty of such an external client would be what to do with your fleet setup and ctd.eg. having 3 ctd in an hour.  or problems regarding alt scouts, double boxing etc which are a disadvantage over ts/vent already atm."
"bounties are absolutly useless. everybody i know collects their own bounties with an alt, meaning if you put a bounty on someone, you are basically giving the guy who killed you isk.i have no real solution to the problem, other than dropping the bounty system completly or maybe have a bounty hunter milita:- can only attack people with a -2 or -5 standing- can only attack people with a bounty- do not get a sec when attacking those people- do not get attacked by station or gate guns when agressing neg-sec / bounty people"
"the bounty system does need fixing because as it stands now either someone has a bounty too small to be worth going after, has a large bounty to show off probably one him stuck on himself, or will collect the bounty on himself.even removing the bounty office would be better than the current system.though a while back i did think of another way to have a working bounty system: - assign a value to almost every item in game. especially the expensive stuff, all ship, rigs and implants should have values assigned. the value could be static or calculated dynamically, all that matters is that this value is below the cost to replace it. - insured ships would be worth less than an uninsured ship of the same type, simply because the target loses less if the insured ship blows up. - pods are valued at about 75% of the cost to replace the medical clone. - when someone's ship is destroyed, the people on the killmail get the higher of the bounty or the cost of all destroyed items split between them. the bounty on their head is then reduced by this amount. - when someone gets podded, the people on the pod mail get the higher of the bounty value or the value assigned to the pod + implants split between them. the bounty is then decreased by this amount. - selecting someone would display the total amount of bounty remaining, not the value you would get for the next kill.this would mean that people would stop podding themselves for the bounty because they would lose isk every time. and it would mean that if you stick a very high bounty on someone, they won't just get killed once, they will keep getting killed until they have lost quite a bit."
"in which you've got front row seats right next to each other.let the guy get his point across without the smack."
"/signedthis really sucked when i was first starting and trying to build up standings, but failed a mission or two."
"not currently, it doesn't. loot belongs to the person who killed the ship but the wreck belongs to me. however, in lieu of me actually being there to pick it up, i'll let whoever is fastest pick it up.so, just be fast enough to salvage it before i do, and you won't have to cry so much about it."
"i have a counteroffer for you. you can go to a place where everybody is vulnerable to your guns, and they don't even have to go near your stuff! heck, you don't even need to have stuff out in the open!it's called \"lowsec.\" look into it.until then, i'll be happily salvaging and looting your missions, and waving to you while i do it."
"hahahaha. you notice that too? well, suppose we can give it time and come up with another angle. seems more like a marketing war than coming up with a good product."
"quick thought:in the future, i think we should shy away from discussing the reasoning/philosophy of changes and just dive into a very flexible document with specific examples. that's probably the model for an op that will survive everyone's hopes and disagreements for the changes well enough to spark discussion.even if it does generate more riff-raff, it will get the topic bouncing along well enough to collect supports, and csm's will be debating the op more than the crap that follows.ffs there's a thread right now getting endlessly bumped about all the reasons pos warfare sucks it's unthinkable that we can't at least get the major points through.seems like the greatest resonance is in the switch to planetary sov battles and the satellite system for driving more interesting conflicts. the battles will be harder probably for attackers and defenders, but there will be fewer of them and the fights will happen even when one side thinks they lack manpower to go for a clean sweep. compared to boring pos shooting, that seems like a win for everyone."
"no offence guys, but there's a thread one month older than this one about it... linkage... might want to take a peek in there too ?"
"most everyone active in this thread has put a post in that thread and surely everyone is aware of it since it's linked in multiple other threads getting juggled around. there's also a massive sov thread pos and starbases the future thread going on in the ideas and features forum.those threads are massive and every other post is yet another radical idea. it's so daunting to weed through them that i usually only make it a page at a time and forget half of what i read.i kind of enjoy the peace of this thread. it seems to continue taking direction and enjoying the relative inactivity of the speakers corner. almost as though serious proposals would naturally be better off if they started here..."
"this topic is already flogging a very dead horse. time to move on./thread"
"/signed"
"noit's too easy to lose standings, much too hard to get it back. interesting idea, but no nerfting outlaws, kthx."
"yeah, change it before i train for amarr caps"
"i'm a minmatar pilot and my roleplaying genes keep telling me to stick to minmatar ships only.. for now that's fine cuz minmatar have some bad-ass pvp non-cap ships and i still have to train up some of the t2 variants.however i am quite hesitant to start skilling up for capital ships because the minmatar capitals just suck.sure people say they can be usefull if used properly and for the right goals... but generally making 3 racial capitals that work with either dps or tank and then a 4th that works with -insert random purpose here- just doesn't sound right to me.now personally i wouldn't mind that at all actually.. i like diversity.but the way it is right now all the -random purpose- 'experimental' ships are matari, leading me to believe ccp uses the minmatar as their sort of bastardly experimental race to just play around with.i am not going to propose any changes or anything, because honestly if ccp needs their players to tell them what to change on the ships they're not doing their jobs right and don't have a clue of the game at all.i will however say that ccp seriously needs to stop the 'funky' ship layouts for minmatar.i don't mind projectile weapons, i especially don't mind them not using capacitor. hell, i even don't mind having to train both armor+shield tank and even projectiles+missile skills. but training all that just to find out all matari ships from battleship and up suck yes, the tempest and maelstrom need some freaking fixing too just doesn't make any sense at all.so its either, make the minmatar capitals more uniform with the other races.. or even out the -random experimental purpose- capitalships between the races.ie minmatar get a random purpose carrier, caldari gets a random purpose dread etc.i am honestly getting sick and tired of how little love ccp has for us matari.i was relieved when nanophoons were invented and thought: \"finally, we found something we're good at\"just to find ccp nerfing the **** edit: whoops, curse outta speedmods not soon thereafter.and now i hear ccp is going to nerf speed even more?why don't you twist the knife in my back around a tad more will ya..minmatar are already the overall worst race to fly, and you go and nerf speedships even moreread: minmatarships, since minmatar ships are basically the only ones that overall rely on speed, cuz they sure as hell tank for nothingok, sorry for the long incoherent post, just venting my frustration and anger.apologies to any people i might have offended, playerbasewise or ccp/dev wise.we just need a boost, a big one. that's all"
"/signed"
"/signedespecially the naglfar is sub par though, the nid is only slightly worse then the other options, but the nag...having to invest at least 1,4m sp more then other dread pilots and getting a ship that is still sub par just doesnt compute...although i stopped hoping for a fix already and started on amarr cap path disagree on the ragnarok part btw, sig radius reduction is pretty neat"
"!"
"we would like to have a logo too."
"supported"
"bump for relevance. phoenixes lost out on another titan killmail...though it might have just melted that fast. :p"
"against"
"i vote for matari friendlinesswe need our speed, it's basically the only bloody thing we have left!"
"this is but one of many \"small/insignificant\" things that just scream for an update.i want lot's of icing on my cake......that and a pony."
"ccp's response: it's planned for next year."
"/signed, the drake would look so cool when it shot all of it's missiles if it had hardpoints"
"yes, please!"
"i hope we will be able to take benefits from the transport skill"
"give it 150`000m3 capacity, 6 high slots with 4 tractor beam hard-points.maybe some sort of salvage range bonus or something like that too. something useful. or perhaps give them a bonus to agility and i mean 10% so that they warp 2x faster than the large freighters150m3 and 1 million m3 hence the better agility."
"i would like the ship to have a ship maintenance bay, large enough for cruiser and battlecruiser.this would ferrying rigged t2 ships much easier in empire and give the new hauler a unique role."
"maybe you should try and read what you quote before you go off on a rant. i've highlighted the important part for you."
"i find it hard to believe that its even possible to be that slow. i remember doing wc in my very first t1 fitted raven with really **** skillpoints where i had to warp out a couple of times and i never got close to those times you state here. missionrunning does not take any skill its mostly just optimising your dps after you have got your tank to a reasonable level. at most you need to be aware of triggerships."
"no"
"drones. i am a terrible caldari i have like 3m drone sp and 600k in missiles. just launch drones and send them on the little ships while you torp or cruise the big ones. normally the drones finish the little guys before i finish the bs.also this is getting a little bit apples and oranges. if your took these same mission runners to 0.0 to rat they wouldn't be at the top end of the pay scale either so saying a sub-optimal mission runner makes less than a hard core 0.0 ratter is a bit dumb. my biggest problem is that normally 0.0 ratters have competition that prevents even close to peak numbers and missioners just turn down a courier mission and next is full of targets again. use a kill agent. courier and mining missions are not good on isk."
"the raven is considered by most i've spoken to anyway to be the primo mission running ship in the game - so it's not surprising that your experience was better.i was running it in a mostly t1 fitted dominix. much lower dps, virtually impossible to hit frigs with the guns unless they are very far away etc.granted, there are probably better fits for the ship - but that's what i had and it did work. due to the length of time i actually took my salvage ship into the mission space several times to clean up sections of rats i killed before coming back into the combat. i got quite a lot of flak in real life as i had guests show up and i didn't want to leave the game, have it respawn overnight and have to do it all over again the next day - meaning i was late for the stuff i'd planned with my guests.i never figured it'd take that long either."
"maybe you should try and write something in a less insulting and inflammatory way because your 'caveat' was so buried in the rest of your diatribe that i entire missed it even when reading it carefully.which makes it a pretty lame caveat. and it's not a proven fact that even on average it's true. you claim it but neither of us has the facts to actually calculate 'on average'.try to divert things all you like, your 'facts' are still nothing but opinions and probably coloured by what you'd like to believe to be true."
"i believe that the last estimate was that 80% of players live in hisec.it also appears to be true that they do not want to live in lowsec or 0.0 so trying to \"force\" them there by changing the game mechanics ie: level iv mission locations will probably loose ccp paying customers.for the folk who like to repeat that eve is a pvp game ... well, it was but, it is very clear that 80% of paying customers prefer hisec so, let's add more content and regions to hisec ... they are the bill-payers. more revienu means more development all regions."
"completely clearing wc and blockade are the 2 longest missions i know of. their is also an l4 version of duo of death with 2 nice bs and a few towers."
"so the guy with the post full of inflammatory comments, and who also fails to read what he is responding to properly now comes and accuses me of being inflammatory? get a grip. your desperate defense of high sec missions is based on attacking the posters of the opposing opinion, rather than their arguments. kindly stfu."
"supporting this cause :words:"
"keep the tech lab. it's saving ccp from having to field a lot of questions by making third party resource findable but i'll also add my name to list that wishes the search was better. it's being low volume but high quality is so much better then the way most of the forums are that we'd have to wade thru if we lost it."
"my thoughts for tiering sovereignty. i started with the goals of:1 tier of objectives for pvpers and industrialists to accomplish2 reduce the pos fuel maintenance grinding3 make 0.0 space less empty on a day to day basis4 make 0.0 more dynamic, and reduce the ability for mega alliances to get rich just because they have the biggest blob but arent necessarily out there patrolling their space or even logging when there isnt a big opso here is my proposala make sov claims based on planet control, remove need for moon coveragea. this will reduce the number of pos by at least 66%, probably more and therefore require a lot less in the way of pos maintenanceb. this should free up the moon mining business for mid/low materials to allow industrialists to handlec. sieges will still be required but not be as agonizing slow to sweep through a systemb make small pos the only moon anchorable posa. reduced shields, and armaments will allow reasonable sized bs gang to interrupt moon mining operationsc introduce economic structures es that produce and consume trade goods or possibly the only way to complete moon mining reactionsa. make a requirement that every planet pos have a es, but that es is not on grid with pos.b. es operates like a posc. es has low shields so that a 10 man hac gang can disable in 20 minutes. es has no defenses but will warp scramble anyone on grid that aggresses not based on standings the es it until help arrives eg, alliance members or roaming defense gangs or shields are disabled.d. once shields are disabled production stops, and production related requirements stop being consumed but other consumables continue to be required. shields are automatically restored after 1 houre. es involved trade goods cant be jumped no carriers, jf, jump bridges, titan jumps, etc. this will re-introduce transports and industrials to 0.0f. es have market system for produced/required trade goods only. alliances can have goods automatically moved to sell orders at specified prices after production completes.g. es have a max 2 week storage capability for both produced and required goods. running out of required goods outs the associated planet pos into reinforced mode and removes it from system sov. so 23/7 blockade could be used to take out a cyno jamming pos, but that would be highly unlikely. likewise produced goods would need to be removed/sold at least every two weeks or further production is wasted.h. alliances can flag es for alliance only, or use corp/alliance standings to anywhere up to making it a true free port. this allows affiliated both the controlling alliance and industrial corps to provide/profit from logisticsso not an overhaul of sov ie, no need to remove cyno jammers, but rather introducing a way for groups of all sizes to affect 0.0 and provide jobs for those crafty industrialists that find satisfaction running 0.0 for great profits."
"not trying to burst your bubble but you'd need to rethink this one...the idea of detecting the warp signature is possible, the destination could not be pin pointed as a ship's warp drive is only limited by the capacity of its capacitor. so you could detect it moving in a certain direction and its general position its moving faster than light so your scan results couldn't be accurate but you'd not be able to pinpoint or guesstimate its final position. unless you assumed that its moving in the direction of the station or something.an interceptor could use a mod in the similar and detect when the bubble has dispersed and get a closer end destination. but that would depend on if ccp thinks warp bubbles are scientifically detectable.good idea otherwise"
"to put it in 3 words : it will fail ."
"this is a fascinating and original idea! i like using a speed tank, rather than straight armor/shield or resistances, to give this ship survivability in fleet battles. and the ship's presence on the battlefield makes fleet battles more sophisticated. friendly speed bonuses are an interesting idea, especially with the upcoming nano-nerf. this warrants additional thought and discussion.balancing will be very challenging, though. it should be neither prohibitively expensive because it will get primaried in fleet battles, nor easy to destroy since presumably it is a commander's ship, nor overpowered.what about a bonus that grants the ship greater resistances the larger the number of ships receiving proximity speed bonuses under its pilot's command, to increase its survivability in progressively larger battles? not to the degree that it could become unstoppable, but enough to encourage an enemy to take out some of its underlings first to weaken it. maybe not a good idea, but throwing it out there"
"/signedlot's of interesting ideas, fighting at the gate/station is boring, it would be nice to see some manuevering and other options."
"can't see any other thread . .. . any corp declaring war on a factional warfare player corporation, should at the least be set upon by the faction it has in fact also declared war onthis would eliminate player corps leaving factions"
"not signed.no special treatment for fw corps."
"this ones only been going on for a week."
"it would also do what the devs said they didn't want to do, namely, let established player alliances dominate and determine the outcome of fw.of course, the dev's intent means squat, obviously, because you have csm members blatently side-stepping it.way i see it, the devs are going to have to do one of two things:they'll either have to cave and allow alliances into fw, in which case fw will become 0.0 jr and the same power players will control it, or they'll have to exempt player corps involved in fw from being war targets to anyone other than others engaged in fw.the first option would pretty much kill fw, tbh. it would quickly escalate into uber-blob cap fights and no longer be an alternative to 0.0 warfare. it'd just be more of the same. the second option would be unfortunate, but maybe unavoidable if the devs wish their original vision for fw as an alternative to 0.0 warfare to stand. people, it seems, just can't keep their hands out of the cookie jar."
"topic says it all tbh.the veldnaught is a landmark in eve and belongs in amarr were it has been for so long.ccp had no reason to move the high sec capitals as they already wasnt allowed to take part in any sort of combat"
"forgot to give myself the thumbs up"
"/signed.../signed....../signed../signed..../signed"
"aye"
"so say we all"
"absolutely."
"edit: stop - before posting please be aware that- there has been a gm response to the issue in the thread where it was originally brought to the attention of the public. that gm response can be found here ...meanwhile, my original post here read:in short, it would appear that ccp has arbitrarily moved the few capital ships which existed in high security space out into low security space. the reason for this sudden and shocking change in long established policy for these few ships is unclear, indeed it would currently seem to be completely absent of good reason.this is a cause for discontent amongst players as not only were all these ships already bound by non-combat rules, but of special note is that one of the biggest, positive contributors to the eve online community chribba is unfairly impacted by this move - as of course are the others also.please sign in support of the reversal of the sudden capital ship relocation decision by ccp so that the csm has cause to raise this matter for us to those who are responsible."
"f***ing-a-tweety!"
"goes beyond supporting this movement. this also needs immediate attention and fixing asap."
"so say we all!and don't forget the other highsec capitals. the veldnaught is not alone in this struggle."
"signed, signed and signed again. mmorpg's are about the players and player driven content is at the heart of that."
"you forgot to push butan."
"do eett!!bad decision ccp.."
"first time i actually bother with csm politics/signed"
"bring back eve's historical monuments!"
"of course i support this, however do change the thread to \"move back all historic icons to their high-sec location\" - as this issue isn't only my ship, but all owners./c"
"move the veldnaught back, its the only real player made ship that newbies have to inspire them. bring it back so new players can dream of one day owning a dread of their own."
"signed!"
"what he says!"
"seriously, ccp, why?"
"signed."
"looks like we've been forum n-a-z-i-d in gd, the bastards."
"ccp, you are making too many mistakes, stop now before you do something really stupid."
"signed.the fact that people can make a difference in this universe is supposed to be one of the selling points. don't take that away. the decision has no positive bearing on this game at all.put the veldnaught and other cap ships moved because of this decision, back into their original hi-sec locations."
"aye"
"i never got to see chribba's veldnaught in action. now i never will. my respect for ccp went down a notch tonight."
"^^this^^"
"signed"
"bring them all back. now."
"i am usually supportive of ccp's changes, but to do something like that just blatently kicks people like chribba in the balls and doesnt seem to to be doing anything else.../signed"
"for <insert diety or other being of choice>'s sake reverse this decision. the veldnaught belongs in empire. chibbra has always played fair, undocked to let new players oogle a dread lets face it unless you're in a fleet with one seeing most caps up close and personal is normally followed by a clone upgrade and a re-equiping spree : "
"yes"
"ccp best be trolling.seriously i see no reason for this to be done other then ccp wanting to go round shouting \"because we can\". and like has already been said the veldnaught is one of the few caps still left in highsec it gets newbies exited, it's just as much a part of eve as any other landmark nowadays.besides the amount chribba has done for the community and eve in general you'd think ccp would show at least a tiny amount of appreciation for all his work."
"im gonna support this.no way that any of the remaining hi-sec caps should have been moved, theyve been there for a long time, cannot be replaced cannot hurt anyone and in some cases are a widely recognised institution."
"i never got around to seeing this wonderful landmark, and now it is gone. *sniffle*"
"nice move ccp :\"
"/signed because i never even got to see the veldnaught!"
"hi-sec capitals are part of the game! bring all of them and the veldnaught back to amarr unscathed/signed"
"this"
"signed. bad move."
"i agree."
"utterly pointless move by ccp. does nothing for the game and is bad community relations.signed"
"supported"
"agreed."
"signed . bring back the amarr veldnaught to amarr . it's the place where it belongs ."
"signed"
"/signed"
"agreed"
"bad move. not classy. not the ccp i used to know and love.put them back!"
"what were they thinking?"
"+1 fail to ccp for doign this."
"signed for all non combat caps to be returned to hi sec"
"bring them all back ccp, as long they don<U+FFFD>t harm anyone with the caps where is the prob? or you are jealous that someone mines all your veld?"
"signed."
"this was a unnecessary action by ccp. do the right thing and 'fix it' back."
"aye."
"veldnaught needs to be in amarr ."
"what a ****ty move by ccp. any reason given apart from the generated response by eve system?"
"/signed"
"signed !!!!chribba u have my full support!way to go ccp ...way to go !cya in game soon"
"totally signed"
"supporting this"
"signed."
"agreed. things like this add diversity to the galaxy, helping you feel that not all is the same."
"signed"
"stupid move ccp, stupid move."
"needs to be in ammar!"
"\signedtoo looks way to often that ccp doesn't have any respect to theirs players, no matter how old, inspiring or content pushing they are.epic fail ccp"
"amarr is not amarr without the veldnaught"
"got my support"
"put it back."
"supported"
"stop destroying eve history ccp!"
"signed!something similar happened when ccp decided to remove even message cans made by pilgrims in new eden.yes, eve is pvp based game, but we also need to have various diversities, unique exceptions from the rules,more things to explore."
"own up to your mistakes and fix them ccp."
"to every rule, there should be exceptions"
"support an icon of the game and the community."
"/signedfor someone to put so much time effort and finances into the community only to be kicked in the balls for no real reason. honestly what's the point?"
"save the veldnaught!"
"man, i was planning a sight-seeing trip to see the veldnaught this weekend"
"yes please."
"this action was nothing more than a kick in the nuts towards players who have invested years and years into this game. not just chribba, but a lot of other owners of former? high-sec capitals. the rules were tight on high-sec capitals, they did not pose a threat, at all. there was no \"issue to be solved\" here.step by step the uniqueness of eve is taken away by it's creators. what's next, the alliance tournament landmark in jita? stop committing seppuku and killing this marvellous game, ccp, please."
"i just want to see chribba back in amarr :"
"/signed"
"this, ccp, is what we call a ****slap.chribba has spent a lot of money making eve what ti is. you earned money making eve what it is.on a financial basis, he has given more then you, since you make a profit and he doesnt.this is rude and uncalled for. the veldnaught is almost as famous as the eve gate.save the veldnaught."
"signed.. not for the veldnaught alone, but for all highsec-capitals that got moved. they pose no threat since the non-combat regulations and are just cool to see in highsec. move them back!"
"signed"
"or at least explain why this was so necessary."
"aye"
"signed"
"/signed. sadly this continues a trend of poor decisions that have made the eve universe feel increasingly devoid of player created content"
"not nly bring them back, but allow any other caps back into highsec with a few restrictions, like, say, disable any offensive weaponry or support modules they might be able to use there."
"here you go."
"signed"
"signed"
"never got to see these ships nor meet the pilots and now, thanks to ccp, i never will. shame on you....shame,shame,shame"
"bring back the high-sec capitals!especially the veldnaught of course"
"no practical reason to have done this. no fawning over chribba here, just the fact that it achieves absolutely nothing of value to the game.wub u c!"
"signed"
"i agree, bring them back please.though i wonder if the csm is the right way to about it. well, if it works."
"supported for several reasons.1 there doesn't seem to be any rational reason for this change other than \"because we can\"2 there was no notification given as to this change by ccp, it just happened overnight basically.3 it seems extremely strange that one day ccp is promoting the sandbox dynamic of the game by using chribba's veldnaught as an example of unique player driven content \"one of the few operating high sec capital ships\" when the next, they're hammering that unique content back into the mold as \"just another low sec dreadnought\""
"seriously..."
"where can i give thumb down for this?"
"/signed"
"signed... for god's sake ccp, why?"
"/signedreverse your pointless decision and restore those few caps back to high sec!"
"/signed"
"it would really suck if player created sights get shot down in favour of the ccp provided sights."
"/signeddee carsondiropseve university"
"/signed for all highsec capitals."
"you can't, but you just added to the post count, helping make this problem seem more legit than if everyone ignored it"
"/signed"
"aye"
"reinstate the veldnaught!/signed"
"duh"
"here goes my support!dont let ccp get off with everything"
"/signed"
"it's pretty ridiculous moving it.i am totally noncomprehending of why his would be worth doing."
"darn tootin"
"please, do not destroy our history like this.if those caps were behaving, they dont deserve to be shunted off to low sec."
"lol no wait i wasn't surprised.."
"support"
"what they said."
"putting it back doesn't reverse the stupidity of their decisions, but do it anyway."
"i agree that the ships should be allowed in high sec under the conditions they have been there already.also agree with cribba that the title of the thread should be changed to all not just his."
"now i'll never see the veldnaught. :|"
"i'd like to hear the reasoning behind this decision from ccp.max"
"ccp need to spend less time ruining harmless fun and more time drug and alcohol testing their employees."
"1.0"
"/signed"
"+1fakeedit: this has my support, even though i haven't seen the veldnaught and atm it is not very healthy for my main to go to amarr to see it."
"why, why why !"
"/signed"
"/signededit for thumbs-up"
"once again ccp showing that they've now strayed from gamesmakers to moneymakers."
"as a miner, i need answers !"
"move eet back!"
"indeed"
"save the veldnaught."
"signed"
"stupid move tbh, just like the removal of the market forums about a year ago. look how that worked out"
"supported, but not just his dreadnought, all old caps in highsec"
"signed."
"signed"
"/signedno need to nerf the veldnaught and friends."
"/signed"
"save the veldnaughtp.s: i also vote for having the theology council declare this veldnaught moving action blasphemous."
"seriously.. thought ccp would've had other problems to worry about then fun things they made possible...signed"
"supporting this!"
"ccp... what's happened to you? i seem to remember you guys being about the game before the money, guess you just got too big. it's not anger it's just.. disappointment, when you think something is special and it turns out to be just the same as all the others you really have to question what's the point. chribba is not just another player and you should know that, he's a living legend in eve and if that's not worth anything to you then i guess the only thing that you value is our money. way to go."
"/signedremarkably thoughtless move on ccps part."
"posting because ccp seem to be getting stupider every week in regard to decisions."
"who's w*nk idea was this then?a cheezy grin and thumbs up from me."
"leave chribba alone you farking tools and recognise your mistakes against someone who has done far more for eve than many of your employees!bring back the veldnaught, besides wth is a capital gonna do in highsec with the rules that were already in place?- tzar'rim"
"i support this.bring them back, let them stay."
"what the other guys said"
"/signed!"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"yet another reason for all players to be upset with ccp.what the hell goes through your heads when cooking this s**t up. is it along the lines of 'lets see how many people we can p**s off today?'"
"/ultrasigned"
"signed"
"i think the problem is much deeper, in my eyes, ccp has completely lost touch with it's player base as of late and made consistantly bad design moves. eve is not a young pup, so this constant need to nerf and change mechanic's that aren't broken boggles the mind."
"bring cap ships back!kplsthx"
"signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"supported."
"incredibly unnecessary action. and without any announcement or explanation.way to go ccp.my old ceo has had.... a naglfar in emolgranlan, and every once in a while on sunday afternoon we would take it out for a spin. within minutes ammold rookie starter system 1 jump away was basically rookie free and all came \"capital watching\". it was nice. it hurt nobody and got people excited for caps.stop changing things for change's sake."
"real life analogy would be removing the statue of liberty from new york, or pyramids from egypt. the remaining capitals in high-sec space were landmarks, and now ccp has bulldozed them :please bring back the veldnaught to amarr, and the rest of the landmarks of highsec where they belong."
"full support, give this man his veldnaught back!"
"c"
"signed"
"/signed"
"i have now flagged this as an issue which the csm will be discussing at the next possible meeting.but by all means, keep supporting this so ccp gets the message!"
"i fully support to move all the high sec capitals back. they should not be removed from high sec, unless the owner has committed a hostile act with them."
"most definitely supported!bring back the veldnaught......it's the least ccp can do for chribba, after all he has done for them! ab"
"this has my support"
"no"
"support"
"moving the veldnaught out of amarr was and is unacceptablethe same goes for the other hisec capitals, theyre relics of a bygone era and as such are a part of player history, a history which is made utterly worthless if the goalposts are continually moved for no valid reason.should those capital ships be used for exploitative reasons then by all means have them destroyed, but in that unlikely event specific action is the only way forward, not kneejerk blanket decisions.in summary, put the damn thing back where it was, where it belongs, where it should be."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/me shakes fist in the air. i never got my screenshot! damn you, ccp!chribba has sacrificed his own skin to promote your game, and this is how he's paid back? by removing the iconic veldnaught from highsec space? what are you planning on removing next? is the entire amarr race moving to lowsec? howabout we relocate all stations to lowsec next?supported, 100%. anyone who comes here and doesn't support it should get an immediate wardec."
"can someone please take away the drugs that ccp are using?"
"whatever happened to player driven content eh?"
"return them all or not, at least try talking to the player base about it first!"
"/signed"
"100.00% agree with the op.how come ccp staff have the time to \"fix\" non-existent problems like these, but completely ignore issues with virtually 100% player consensus?i haven't seen one complaint about the veldnaught, ever."
"/signed"
"fail ccp."
"/signedthis should be expanded to cover all high-sec capitals that were effected, not just one."
"a truly stupid move on ccp's part and potentially damaging to the community.hopefully ccp will reverse this... chribba best of luck mate./zach"
"/signed"
"they moved the veldnaught?? and other high sec capitalsoh come on, that's poo poo. so many issues to be worked on in this game and they're writing scripts to move all the caps out of high sec... fhs."
"i agree"
"/signed"
"the various high sec capitals add to the unique appeal of the game, they suggest that there are ways for a player to leave their mark on the universe - and if a demigod with the gdp of a medium sized country can't make a mark then what's the point?"
"there's no reason whatsoever for this move, expecially given the exponential value of these handful of ships - which were already effectively castrated.stupid move, and a very costly one for anyone who paid through the nose for their highsec cap, which is just an expensive lawn ornament anyway.pointless."
"/signed"
"for shame ccp.i sincerely hope whoever thought up this bone-headed move is new, since there is no excuse for anyone who's been around for longer."
"signed"
"who gave the psycho the nerf-bat?"
"say it aint so! bring back the veldnaught."
"we demand our veldnaught back."
"agreed"
"make it so"
"signed in a big way.considering how much chribba has done for the game, and not done with his veldnaught such as shooting stuff in highsec, the decision to pointlessly deposit his vessel somewhere other than amarr is just plain idiotic... especially if there is no explination as to why.\"no exceptions\" to the rule? see above... no one has done more for eve, and i mean for eve, not just himself and his small group of friends that number in the thousands, btw, as one of the most trusted icons in the entire eve universe, but for the whole of the playerbase.has some change been done to the game engine that cannot be bent for one dread??ok, build chribba a unique ship, one that has the 99.9% resistances of the polaris boats but has all the look of his veldnaught, that can reside in amarr to impress the masses."
"signed in blood.chribba is the most loved person in eve, and has done amazing amounts for the eve community. this is an idiotic and petty attack on eve`s most beloved pilot.chribba has my full support."
"nooooooooo!!!!! i havent have time to go to amarr jet to see it, and now it is gone you devs are eviledit: as they where more or less useless as they where not allowed to do any combat, why move them? move all of them back or at least give the pilots the option to have them moved back"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"supported"
"w0rd!save the whale!"
"i also support this"
"bring back the veldnaught!"
"of course it needs to go back. what a kick in chribba's face"
"/signed"
"i rarely post on these forums, but this one gets my vote. bring back the veldnaught!"
"ccp, shame on you."
"./signed"
"signed!"
"no reason at all to do this. unfrack yourself quick before the bleeding gets worse."
"what a joke ccp, pull your fingers out and stop giving idiots the nerf bat."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"ccp, no communication or explanation for this?"
"i don't really care about the other capitals, but chrriba's veldnaught definitely needs to come back to amarr. it is a cultural icon and should be protected as such."
"/signedno real reason for doing this that i can tell, unless it's 'look ma, i annoyed our subscribers again'"
"/signed"
"he made websites, he made a tatoo in hommage to eve.he paid in time, money and surely in blood !please let him keep his veldnought in amarr.for other capitals couldnt you devote some man-hours to block the use of the offensive modules. everyone would be happy."
"for once something i agree with"
"/signed"
"one of very few true landmarks of eve has to be reinstated."
"<3 the veldnought <3"
"requaiar the amarrlation back :"
"/signed"
"my first encounter with the veldnaught is what made me convert my two-week trial period into a paid account.please don't remove something that makes eve a unique and interesting place."
"it's a bloody landmark, and it should damn well be moved back where it is. removing the veldnaught is removing a part of eve history, removing a monument*.all the other high-sec capitals should get returned to high-sec too. since they're forbidden from engaging in combat, there is no reason to kick them out of high-sec.just a horribly stupid move, ccp.*player made one, too, not some npc fluff."
"the janks is upset that something that little pieces that make eve unique, are being taken away."
"signed, with alts too."
"hi, ccp?yes, we're your players... remember us?set it right./signed"
"bring it back...now !"
"i bet they honestly thought they'd get away with this."
"considering how much he has done for eve they could let him keep his dread in amarr. wouldn't be surprised if he decided that, hey, hosting all the useful eve sites that most players use daily just ain't worth the trouble anymore. wouldn't blame him either."
"srsly..."
"icons like privately owned capital ships in high sec give the game a sense of developing history and should be treated as such. put them back in their rightful places./rivqua"
"****ing hell ya"
"outrageos!"
"stupid decision"
"ccp, time to take your meds again .../signed"
"/signed."
"does anyone have a link to where ccp made an official statement about this?i for one agree that it is cool that certain dreads were in high sec. i passed chribba once and we had a short exchange of pleasentries. the others dreads i have not seen. they should bring the select few back, considering the mechanics that did not let them pew pew.the only way i could even start to think of supporting this decision was if ccp role played an econominc or social reason why concord and the two racial alliaces all argrred on to remove all reaming high sec dreadnoughts out of \"secure\" space.hope ccp reverses this decision.slade"
"/signed for all highsec capitals!"
"they hurt noone and where icons of eve. bring 'em back!"
"i support this. i can see no benefit to the game as a whole or the playerbase for removing a handful of benign capitals left behind in high sec. nothing that could justify this outrage to a player who enjoys far more respect than the company or the game itself does!nothing short of an apology for a collosal blunder made, and an offer to reverse this move completely, or else full 100% disclosure of precisely how this will improve the game massively will do to justify this move!"
"give the pilotsthe choice if they want them moved back to empire or not.but on the point of the veldnaught, it was truly a landmark. it was an inspiration for us all, it spread so much love..."
"ccp you are doing some very stupid things lately and if you keep it up the game wont last. move the veldnaught to high sec again."
"i just dont see what fecking harm it or any high sec dread/carrier was doing already rules against using them, why move them? bs!"
"movr it back ccp, save eve history"
"if there is any excuse for a post, it is this."
"signed. ccp you fail again."
"very bad call, if only from the corporate pr point of view.lots of people may hate nanos, but everyone loves chribba. i suggest ferocious back-pedalling."
"bring them back! i support this."
"/signed"
"signed"
"/signedspare the veldnaught."
"the veldnought is not an exploit nor a threat, its completely irrational to treat one of ccp's best members like this.ccp dont forget we love your game but we want to be treated with respect."
"signed."
"forgot to hitch the ride. yey velnaught!"
"signed!!!!i was just about to go look at this cap shipp, but now it<U+FFFD>s gone."
"supported"
"wtg ccp! what's next, killing puppies?"
"put it back dammit!!"
"ccp is stupid"
"the veldnaught: one of the few tourist attractions in eve. new eden is a dull wall paper tbh"
"at least a comment by ccp. devs can complain about a sometimes hostile atmosphere on the forums all they want, its partly down to them. communication even less will not change this. unless you want to wait till the last person quits eve."
"hmpfh... not cool."
"sometimes you would expect that ccp thinks before they act... move the veldnought back!!"
"/signednice to see no dev response here. /sarcasm off"
"agreed.the veldnaught has become a legend unto intself and is one of the more interesting icons to tell and show new players to eve.the removing of the few remaining capitals that were living in peace was not required. they were not hurting anyone.i do not remember seeing a thread started about someone saying they were negatively impacting their game play.put them back."
"totally signed. these ships were the best ways to get newer pilots excited about some day owning a cap ship... seeing a gm in such a ship from time to time is just not the same.and for the record i have never seen a cap and i've been playing for a couple of years now ... and thanks to this i will almost certainly never see one."
"move it back.now!"
"signed"
"player-drive environement. your own words ccp. we want the veldnaught back in its rightful place.this is something we can all agree on."
"/signed, move them all back."
"i support this. bring all capitals that have been in highsec before back there.-shaddy"
"what he said."
"veldnaught is legend, put it back."
"terrible idea to move them in the first place. this is definitely signed."
"+1ccp stated that all lsaas in highsec and all highsec capital ships would be fine, then did a 180 on this not once, but twice, and yet somehow managed to end up facing the wrong way."
"i support this issue.paris wouldn't be the same if the eiffeltower was in the banlieus."
"uhh crappy move ccp. way to really tick off the player base, and one heck of a loyal player / community member."
"oh my fix it !"
"seriously. this was pointless. lots of mission-running residents of high-security space got their only look at capitals this way. they already couldn't engage in combat; besides, they wouldn't have wanted to anyway. i'm guessing concord would have been capable of taking them out if required.there's no reason for this change, in my opinion, and think it terrible that the community had to be notified by one of the victims to even know about it."
"\signed."
"/signed. ccp, get your heads on straight and fix your game instead of implementing stupid changes like this."
"/signed"
"signed"
"chribbas veldnaught is a part of the game experience. put it back."
"move them back to high-sec, including non-chribba's capitals."
"signed, less pointless \"fixes\", more improving gameplay where it matters please"
"[sarcasm] yes, this must have been the most pressing issue to fix. congratulations and thank you, ccp... [/sarcasm]player generated environment, one of the things used to get people into the game, not allowed to engage in combat in high sec... so delete them? come on...bring them back."
"/signedthere are hundreds of issues ccp should be addressing other than moving 10 harmless ships."
"in my mind's eye, i see chribba standing triumphantly in the bridge of his veldnought, sailing back into amarr carrying the wildly overdue qen in one hand and a sensibile fix for nanos in the other."
"frankly, bizarre."
"suuuuppppoooorrrrttttteeeedddd"
"/signed"
"would you believe that i have been playing for about a year and i just heard of the veldnaught about a month ago!i was just getting ready to make an alt for the explicit purpose of going to amarr to check it out!when it is moved back, we should plan a \"welcome home\" party! just watch out for suicide goons!"
"now."
"signed. stop persecuting chribba."
"put the veldnaught and all the other hisec dreads back! like the nonni moros. they do far more good for the game in hisec than they'll ever do in lo or null. in highec they provide the last vestage of awe as you fly past in your little cruiser - battleships just don't do that anymore.and no excuses about not showing favor to anyone!!! of course you should favor some people, especially when they go above and beyond the call of duty in service to the game.shame ccp on the short sighted move."
"signed"
"so say we all!!!!!!!"
"naow"
"signed.very ignorant move by ccp."
"this is one of the saddest decisions i've ever seen in a game. chribba has done so much for the community and ccp's reaction is to kick him in the balls.awful."
"egg on face. you has it."
"silly decision"
"bring back the hi-sec capitals!bring back the veldnaught."
"watwho moved the shineys? put back plox."
"ok ok ok . . .i figured it out!this has to have been . . .1 ccp hazing a new devor2 an experiment conducted by academics in the realm of sociology to study virtual communitiesor3 a ploy to get everyone riled up and then feel great about having accomplished something once ccp move it them back right before they bring on the nano nerf! i honestly can't think of any other rational explanation . . . seriously . . . ?????????"
"signedcsm we elected you, now is a time to test if ccp really means what they said."
"lol - naughty ccp - call the new youk times - the csm is revoltingskunk"
"support.. off you go...also, posting after skunk without knowing ^^"
"another waste of devs time, rather then addressing real issues....they caps were not hurting anyone so wtf is your problem?supported"
"i agree, this decision sucks ccp!/signed"
"signed"
"no reason why not."
"veldnaught - unnerf - pronto.c."
"make it so"
"and there's goes another great ccp move.. if this goes on i'll start playing wow guess the devs moved there anyway allrdy"
"in a new move to encourage players to lowsec, all capitals in 0.0 have been moved to random points in lowsec and the entirety of null-sec has been deemed highsec, and the outposts have been taken by their respective race.in another move to assist in getting more players to eve, we have phased out classic clients and you can now only access eve via premium client with all special effects turned on. this is to wow new players by showing them sweet player-made videos with the best graphics available. if you cannot run this client, please visit our sponsor, who will give you a $5 discount towards their new high-end supercomputer alpha computing line, featuring pre-installed eve. thank you.[hippie]that's the future, maaaaaaaaaaaaan[/hippie]"
"pathetic."
"bad move ccp. get the veldnought back to amarr"
"awww, can't a man pwn some veldspar any more?"
"stupid stupid stupid.you use chribba as a topic of discussion on how great eve and the eve community is in a presentation and then you nerf his chribbaness?laaame"
"ohh signed..."
"."
"/signed"
"signed"
"signed. my first post ever on eve-o after playing for almost three years, this topic deserves it.please reverse the decision to move these capital ships out of high-sec."
"word."
"agreed."
"push butan."
"move all of the highseccs back, they were monuments to an early age, and as long as they played by the rules that were imposed those monuments should continue to exist.removing them was destroying a part of eve's player-created history. you know, ccp, that thing that you always tout as a distinguishing feature of your game?"
"/me does a facepalmccp does it again ....."
"put them back."
"n/t"
"definitely. high-sec caps were already constrained by non-combat rules, and as such conveyed little advantage other than being unique landmarks. i see no rationale for removing them."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signedthe veldnaught is a landmark in eve and belongs in amarr were it has been for so long."
"my name is benilopax and i support this message."
"ccp didn't think this one through. bring high sec caps back!"
"truly signed"
"/signed"
"/signed.i mean, i never got to haul for him yet."
"ccp have lost it, my faith in them is now gone. here is their one chance to *maybe* have an opportunity to win it back"
"there are none that deserve it more than chirbba."
"signed"
"/signed.but in the sake of fairness - bring all moved hisec caps back, as the veldnaught wasnt the only one after all."
"does ccp want to reduce the number of players?have ccp decided that trying to get chribba to rage-quit would make super caps harder to sell and therefore less common?"
"thats low ccp, even for u.."
"signed"
"return the veldnaught!"
"****ing signed."
"i made a trip to amarr the other day just to see the veldnaught. i did take gifts, and chribba did undock, making my day so i am actually saddened to see this somewhat ridiculous move by ccp. the few highsec capitals are there for one reason now, shiney ship to look at. they don't imbalance the game - they are, for the most part - useless.i support this thread, for chribba, and all the other highsec cap owners"
"rabble rabble rabble!i never got to see the veldnaught, but i have heard of it and consider one of the landmarks of eve. removing it from amarr is possibly the worst thing i have seen ccp do."
"/signedsave the veldnaught!"
"signed!sometimes i feel chribba has done more for us, and cares more about eve and players, then ccp."
"ccp come out from the lamers lounge. stay away from chribbas fun. /signed"
"i never thought i'd post in a csm thread but i have to support this one.i've never seen a high-sec cap although i'd love to, nor have i seen any of the other wonders in eve that players have built titans, just to give one example. if it's no longer game-mechanically possible for them to exist in high-sec then fine, but lets see a dev blog telling us what's changing in the game mechanics that make it so instead of having hours/days of indigation by your player base.yes it happened to cribba, and so this cause has a \"leader\" they can rally around to protest, but it isn't any less of a slap in the face to anyone else that had a \"high-sec cap\" and was living by the imposed and for the most part self-enforced rules to keep them.it's not a player sandbox anymore when the parents take away all the toy's ... get a grip ccp and either tell your playerbase why you had to do this, or give us the toys back ... we deserve at least that much respect."
"hmmmm and i was planning to go and see this.....why ccp? /me starts looking for a new mmo"
"/signed. major wtf-ery about."
"they must be all put back.with regards to the veldnaught, i remember when i first started playing eve i traveled along way across the galaxy and wait to see it.at no point do high sec capitals damage anyones playing. they are living land marks. and allow noobs to see the things in safty."
"signed"
"signed"
"bad move ccp"
"/signed"
"signed"
"i approve of the veldnaught being moved back to amarr.. it really was my first encounter with a dread and i still remember it fondly."
"/signedexplanation and a real one, not one you pull out of your ass or put it back."
"i dont give a **** about chribba or his veldnaught. what i do give a **** about is arbitrary changes that have negative impacts on the community. i believe all capitals that were in high sec should be reinstated to their former positions.where is the logic in bumping them out to lowsec?"
"the angel gang says \"aye\"."
"/signed. ccp needs to stop nerfing people's fun."
"/signed"
"signed..."
"stupid move ccp"
"it's kinda funny how much more support this topic has than any of the other ones."
"/signage"
"put the veldnaught back where it belongs!"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed."
"eve is a poorer place without things like the veldnaught."
"move it back home."
"pro veldnaught :p"
"/signedthis idea would be like naming an installation config file boot.ini....oh wait."
"signed..."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"sad. just sad."
"player driven content, eh?bring them all back."
"100% agree"
"/signed"
"oh this i so signed"
"/signed"
"i've ventured through amarr on serveral occasions, yet have not yet taken the opportunity to see the wonderous sight of chribba's veldnought; would very much like to do so now though. please, return not only this vessel, but any other landmark vessels lost in this seemingly random decision."
"this."
"/signedup yours ccp"
"i konw, i was planning on it as well, after i was done w/ faction warfare and able to go into amarr, or just sneak their in a shuttle, hell i even added chribba to my address book so i would konw when he's on and so i could go their in a shuttle or something"
"/signed."
"/signed..plus, i think someone should organize an in-game protest, everyone to the veldnaught's current location..crash the grid to make the point."
"signed, obviously."
"/signed"
"players make eve<U+FFFD>s history unique. hi-sec capitals are part of that. let us keep our landmarks."
"save the veldnaught!"
"signed, seriously, bring 'em back"
"/sign"
"/signed"
"/signed."
"i agree. please move all highsec capitals back to their prior locations, with the same restrictions as before.thanks."
"/signed. wish i had a chance to see it"
"bring it back or we will all quit eve again"
"/signed"
"supporting the veldnaut."
"all i can say is to agree with the rest of the posters here this is an asinine change.when i was 1 week old i flew to amarr to see the veldnaught i even thought i would get shot at because i left caldari space. how many 1000s of players have got the inspiration to do \"better\" in eve because of seeing that one huge ship flying by?bring back the veldnaught"
"+1 signed.why is ccp taking away iconic landmarks like the veldnaught that gave this game so much class?and to **** with one of the most supportive members of this community is just wrong ccp. think about what you are doing."
"so say we all"
"/signedi want to see the veldnaught in action at least once in my eve career."
"signed"
"/signed : i never got to see it i was going to go this weekend boooooooooooooooo not fair"
"/signed.../signed againget it back where it belongs!"
"/signed and /double stampedput the veldnaught back in highsec you blithering morons!for this outrage i'll pay 100m isk for each ccp member stuffed in a locker at fanfest with proof of course "
"player-created history, imho. the stuff that adds to the eve story."
"woo there returning the ship back to high sec :d"
"totally signed."
"support"
"bring it back. removing the veldnaught was deleting some part of the games very own character."
"just a quick look through the 16 pages and only one csm in here are the others waiting to brownnose with ccp's official announcement ?"
"agreed, save the highsec caps for the tourist attaction they arefrancois"
"aye"
"supported. absolutely no sound reason for this most recent move. non-combat caps in high-sec were of no real concern."
"/signed"
"put them back.edit: so apparently they have. well done."
"just saw the gm response on this. yay for chribba! yay for all high sec cap owners! good move ccp"
"bring back the veldnaught!"
"/signedthe veldnaught is sacred."
"/signed for all ex-highsec capitals"
"they brought it back"
"/support.-liang"
"agreed. i can't fathom high-sec capitals, with all their restrictions, were in the slightest way a problem, compared to most of the current bugs/exploits."
"/signedmoving it out of highsec was a completely nutball move."
"/signeddeck"
"give it back! and put it in amarr! hell even lock it so it can only fit mining drones and mining lasers if you want..."
"i never leave oope. now i have to say, aye."
"hell yes."
"bring them all back. they hurt nobody in high-sec and are enjoyable. there is no reason to move them."
"gm reply on post 888"
"thumbs up"
"bring back the veldnaught!!!"
"this is the kind of bonehead move that really should get people fired for proposing/authorizing it."
"i once asked who chribba is, and saw that he was good. i saw resentment in others, feeling he was getting special treatment. i saw this was not true. he got special treatment from players - thats what i saw.and regarding all items of history; they should be returned. how many games can you look at that echo its past via user created landmarks? not many. how wonderous is it to look upon these things, see they were done, and then wonder what will be the future for yourself? so if you see that the past is erased in eve, will you be so inclined to make a future anyway? some might not."
"/signed i always wanted to go and see the veldnaught, special things or \"oddities\" just make the universe more interesting. ccp can change the rules or make judgement calls in situations like this, and yet they choose to please a vocal minority who would likely never quit over this issue seriously, you care about a mining ship that much?.it's more than possible to safely make more isk than a mining dread can with cheaper ships. as for safety, it would have just been that much cooler if someone actually did pull off an operation that successfully lead to his destruction. this is a very disappointing decision."
"give us our historic icons back!!!"
"give me a tractor drone and i could care less about a salvage drone, but hey if they want to make both, bonus"
"needs to be more interactive: and you don't have to punish people with this. you can have a little popup message that says you've noticed a little concentration of ore off to the lateral side of the asteroid, do you want to narrow the focus your lasers to take advantage of increased yeild for a few cycles? if you don't, it just happily mines away at the standard rate. if you do, you get rewarded with an increased yeild amount per laser and maybe a bonus amount of another ore.mining lasers: there's no reason these shouldn't have the capacity to be overloaded for cycle time, or ore amount, or both.new ships: yeah, the hulk is great. the rorqual makes an ok transport vessel, but you can't mine in it. in a game that has combat ship varieties that stretch from interceptor to titan, the spread of mining ships is well....pathetic. mining frigs -->mining cruisers --> mining barges --> exhumers --> rorqual. there should be at least another class of ship in between hulk and rorqual that is able to mine. make it as skill intensive as you want, but give it the ability to have at least 3 strips and a couple of turrets and have utility slots to be able to remote tank other vessels. and a decent cargohold capacity. edit: syntax"
"mining is the most ******ed, boring, pathetic, etc. profession in the game. i tried it for a bit, but there is not a dam thing to do. it's eve's dirty little secret of worst gameplay possible.this is a game and with that in mind anything can be made fun."
"1 if you're a solo flyer, mining can be boring. however with any organization of a corp this can be entertaining in many ways while you wait for your miners to cycle.2 it's one skill book more than the covetor. you can be in one in less than 50d. if you specialize into t2 crystals maybe a few more days with exception of the high end non 0.0 ores.3/4/5 i don't expierence these, i just experience getting blown up. however i wouldn't mine in empire as the isk/hr just isn't worth it. i prefer mining for 50 - 75m /hr not 5m/hr and have to deal with this can flipping/thieve issue. i actually don't know what it is.6 i don't see how this is something that needs to be fixed. since when in the history of the world is mining any mineral a solo operation? yes, you can do it alone and it takes longer, more people sharing the work and you get done faster."
"i'd like to see this, can't seem to slim my cache enough, just got wasted while sitting on endless load upon exiting a station by some tard who thought i was willingly sitting around eyeballing him to death."
"but of course. i see there is a cache purging option already but it also flushes all your bookmarks which makes it largely useless."
"actually... agents are receiving funding from their dominant corporations because players are performing services on their behalf.agents are assigned to various locations, to take up residence and make friends. they talk to the travelers that pass through, gathering rumors and listening to \"tales told over a pint\".then they wait for someone with a reputation for getting errands done... and pass along the info. \"people have been having a problem in this area. go clean it up, and we'll pay you for your trouble.\"if agents took up residence in pos or outposts...1 there wouldn't be random travelers passing through. the only info would come from corp/alliance personnel who frequent the station.2 agents would start gathering info like... \"everytime a wandering pilot happens to pass through this stargate, they get ganked by the local hoodlums.\" except... you are the hoodlum.in short... there's nothing for an agent to make a mission out of, except for trying to thwart your own activities."
"missions are, the vast majority of the time, aimed at killing pirate faction rats. belt rats exist in 0.0, and so we can infer that pirate factions exist in 0.0. therefore, there's people to kill in 0.0 that aren't pcs, and therefore missions make sense."
"when i thought of this topic, it wasn't to put more focus on them, it would be to eliminate level 4's altogether in highsec and make them lowsec/0.0 only.but to do that, you'd need a redistribution system. and what better way to redistribute them than this? imagine the moaning!"
"give them the damned agents, they will stop whining for a week."
"moving' lvl4 and up agents to 0.0 or even+lowsec only would accomplish either one of the following:1. everybody moves to 0.0, empire empties except for miner carebears2. everybody in empire becomes a miner carebear3. everybody that used to make their isk in empire doing missions to fund various 0.0/lowsec operations becomes broke4. some kid shoots his brains out leaving a note \"eve online killed me\" whereupon his parents ofcourse sue ccp because the thought that they themselves couldn't raise their child properly just doesn't occur to them and they win the lawsuit because the kid and parents were from the usa and thus ccp is broke and eve online seizes to exsist.now tbh, not one of those scenario's looks appealing to me, except for the last one ofcourse where the boy dies, but that's just me. also i like the thought that if i ever decide to just leave 0.0 and become semi-active i can always have some fun and make some isk in empire on the odd times i actually am online by doing lvl4 missions"
"only because deep 0.0 has no training ground for new recruits. jumping straight into double and triple bs rats is hard on a newb. i would pay for a level 1 agent out in our space."
"noobs don't belong out in 0.0 space... that's precisely what high sec is there for... to show them the ropes. to get them used to gameplay, and combat, and so forth. any rookie who just sets course and heads for 0.0 is only looking for heartache.all these 0.0 pirates are looking for, is a way to make a few isk while they wait to gank each other. a way for a few of them to pass the time, while the others probe down the mission runners and kill them and steal their wrecks."
"ive played both sides of this card...i think we need to do whatever would encourage more people to rat in low sec and mine in low sec... targets or opportunities to make isk in low sec depending on your version of eve are being coming harder to come by.more often than not a outing of some relaxing pvp is disrupted by a blob of other people trying to get some relaxing pvp..mostly blobbed because engauging something on a gate in anything less than a t2 ship or t2 fitted ship solo is suicide.. there are characters that rely upon the gateguns as half their dps in pvp.. see ami on any weekday night.. attack the thorax on the gate then watch the gank mega appear.the gate guns are becoming too much of a crutch for some and a hinderance for others... ccp bring back benefits for carebears who brave low sec... give them greater rewards.. and stop punishing the pvp'ers who attempt to educate the carebears on the ways of low sec living."
"well, i personally would have to disagree with you.right now, as it is, someone in a broadsword yes, ive seen it done, ive been blown up by it can just gatecamp a 0.4 system at 0m from the gate and shoot stuff up.i do not believe ccp ever intended one person to just be able to pirate gatecamp a 0.4 system gate, or atleast i really hope so.i totally agree that low-sec guns need boosting."
"my god man, what failure of a ship were you flying to die to a lone broadsword on a gate?anything frigate sized can warp off before the broadsword gets a lock.any battlecruiser with a reasonable fit can kill an agressed broadsword or tank long enough to jump through the gate hint free 350 dpsbattleships are in the same position as the battlecruiser.which leaves cruiser hulls which can ewar, burn away from, tank or gank free 350 dps said broadsword depending on specific ship.if you died in an unscouted hauler/mining ship then its your own fault for being silly, a fool and his isk are soon parted.sentry gun dps is fine."
"add in a \"warp to 200km\" and i'd support this"
"i still like the idea of forcing \"fleet structure\" for capitals.for instance: 1 removing the ship bonuses like \"99% reduction to fitting doomsday weapons\"2 adding in their place the ability to \"borrow\" cpu from fleetmates.then all the cpu they'd have for fitting would come from the shared resources of the fleet beneath them. if you want a titan with a dd, then you need a fleet gathered with at least 10,000 cpu to spare. if you want carriers to have drone control units, that's 7,500 cpu each.i realize this isn't so much a \"maintenance\" issue like the op suggests. but it is a form of control, to make sure that fleets aren't relying solely on deploying a dozen titans to wipe out the opposition.ehh"
"the biggest problem with current capital warfare, as far as i can tell, is the fact that supercapitals can fight without committing. a titan has impact for 15 seconds an hour, so you hide it for the other 59:45. it'd be like a carrier launching fighters in the persian gulf and jumping to lake michigan until it was time to recover them - of course combat looks degenerate under those conditions. dreadnoughts are the ones that don't work this way, and as such they're actually quite well-balanced. they do one thing very, very well - blow up large, immobile targets - they do not obsolete battleships, and they have to commit for 10 minutes if they want to do much of anything, and do so in a fashion that means they can be popped with relative ease by an opposing fleet. carriers and motherships are similar, except that they have the ability to remote rep, which makes them virtually invincible in large groups. the obvious solution is a massive nerf to capital logistics modulesmake them 1.5-2x as big as battleship ones, instead of the current 3-4x with a corresponding massive buff to the triage module. make logistics much better if you're willing to commit to a fight where you can die, and much worse if you're not. titans are the most obvious problem, and the solution has to be on the doomsday itself, since the ship proper's only problem is that it does nothing except mount a ddd or a jump bridge, and 20 other modules to help out the one chosen. yaay's thread from a while back had some good ideas on this - mostly on the theme of making them effects over a period of time that don't just nuke things - but really any solution that makes ddds not instapop support fleets, and that makes titans linger instead of fleeing, would help greatly.yes, i realize that was a bit of a tangent. it is, however, the only reasonable solution i see to capital proliferationon the topic of your original proposal, i don't think it can be made reasonable to all of the myriad ways capital ships are used. you have fleet titans that get used daily, and vanity dreadnoughts that sit in amarr with miner iis on. any proposal for upkeep fees that would hit the former group would cripple the latter, and any that would be reasonable to the latter would go nigh-unnoticed by the former. i don't think you can make it work."
"after almost since day one i have been a part of the eve online universe,, it saddens me the first time i was not reimbursed after warping away and slowly dyeing for 4 minutes 12 au from invisible attackers and unable then to lock them back. all u get is a sorry but our policy is to punish everyone since there is no logs on our side.i have tested games when very young, worked later as developer/level designer as well as animation rigging ect. i have a reel good idea of what i did wrong when i loose a ship, what is not my fault please check 0utbreak killboard for stats on losses and ull get the point. i know i have lost approximately 320 hrs worth of ships to server/lag related problems that if id had a ccp member sitting next to me would understand with there own eyes im not lying and its wrong. for 6 years or so uve just said sry, but the problems are still there, u don't fix them and u still punish the innocent since \" there are many people who would take advantage \".. u admit here u punish the innocent, u admit to me that the last place i was enjoying posses i find too lagy for inties/ fleet fights over 50 v 50 and century fire in faction warfare when flying inties with lag in a lev 4 mission area i should'nt be.. i.e. move since even now this area fails to the 300 people the severs cant cope with. every avenue i enjoy of the game has been broken by numbers, now the way i used to get my isk back is also broken. when u return to ur agent after 2 failed for annoying reason petitions and find u have the problem all over again there is no corner of the game that has not turned belly up for me that i enjoy.i have supported u from day one, but after this final loop of flying a well set up ship / loose to lag, bugs  some u dint even want to know about since it was a new one and then try get money back and loose ships with 2/5 min delays on lev4s leaves me with nothing left to enjoy and no way of making isk with ought moving my hole armada of ships, salvagers and mods. i have 300 mill left to pay on the lent ship to do missions and aprox 2 kills left for toxins number one solo killer. my accounts are cancelled and the month i have left should be ample.my advice to u is watch ur ankles. i take this quite personally since i felt i have done nothing wrong other then try to play ur game and in the 5 years since my first petition u have not changed your policy and must understand that there will be many innocent people u take advantage of with ought reimbursing. i wish u good luck on solving some of the bigger issues u have with this game that would allow reel time fun game play back, and curse every time u avoided these to attract new players. my reel advice to u is think a bit about the people u screw over with ur policy, now instead of having an old time supporter always up for fighting in ninja fashion and helping promote ur game, u have a very angry badger burrowing threw the ground heading for ur home land, pull up ur socks and watch out for ur ankles, i am omw to eat u all.subscriptions closed .. no no no u cant have my stuff.thanks for all the good times but remember the times u said im sry and did nothing when ur bones are being exposed"
"linkageand sorry to hear you are leaving.another vet bites the dust.edit: also in before it is moved to oop forumslade"
"lol.. if its in the wrong place opps, my petion agent said to come here .. what can u do 07"
"^this^^i fully disagree with the op. might i suggest that he stop playing drunk, stoned or distracted. also use of the [tab] key instead of the [enter] key while putting in the orders price is highly suggested. since this will automatically add the commas to your number."
"helloi just detected this thread: eve online usability reportit is the best list of usability issues that i have seen so far in eve.but what use has a buglist if ccp devs are not looking at it!?several of these issues are quite annoying and not that difficult to fix.i play eve now for about 2 years and most of these issues have been there from day 1.there is no improvement in this area! and well, we actually pay a monthly fee to get maintanance. it is sad enough that such a list has to come from the player community and not from the qa devs paid for that jobso please bring this issue up and bring this buglist to their attention a comment from a dev in that thread would be a good startregards,eve g."
"getting drowned out in less important issues."
"i need clarification here on a few things:a what is the fastest time a ship can possibly be probed? any single warp will make the fastest time with your method much slower than the fastest time with the current method.b how accurate will clicking be, will you be able to click with a 0m accuracy which can be gained with the current probing system?considering warping times, it will be impossible to get a fix on a target warping between safespots using your method because you would have to warp as well in order to get lines 2 and 3. also considering modern detection systems why wouldn't it be possible to get an accurate read on a position of an object with a single scan like we can in the modern era. direction, response time response time translates to distance due to fixed speed of the ping, response strength.although i would love to be able to zoom my system map in more. sometimes objects are within 1,000,000km or less of each other and that is very hard to distinguish in the solar system map."
"what i'm looking for, however, is a reduction in the warp distance from a specific object. i won't lie to you - i want to drop on top of a jetcan, within 1500m, so that i can open it and scoop the loot.as it is, i usually appear within 2000m of the jetcan, and need to approach it to steal from it. it's not bad in most ships, but when you're trying to steal something in an industrial, it's close to impossible to do, if the owner is paying attention.what i'm asking for is the ability to train the skill, so that the distance from a warpable object can be reduced. obviously, the skill exists or once existed, and for one reason or another, it's not being used."
"i think that's exactly what herschel meant, too. if it is possible, i'd like to see this implemented as well. i do a lot of jetcan mining, and trying to get on top of my jetcan with an industrial, especially when there are belt rats around, is very annoying and a little dangerous. i agree, if possible you should be able to train to warp to within 1500m.if not, herschel's idea of faster accel/decel when entering and exiting warp is also a great idea."
"wow. imagine a world where a jetcan miner and a ninja salvager/looter can agree on a topic. it's... it's... beautiful!/me wipes away a tear."
"/signed. i like the idea-when i am warping back to stuffships, objects...i would like to be able to warp directly on top of it instead of overshooting. if you have a ship with a faster warp speed, it seemingly takes forever to get back to whatever it is that you just warped to. t_t"
"please!"
"/signed.untrashable station containers are so annoying!!"
"i'm sure this has been suggested before, but with 'fixing' the nano problem in mind. why not create a web bubble, just like a dictor bubble but 35% web instead? multiple bubbles stack? so now when you're fleet is getting nano****d you tell your dictors to drop web bubbles so you can shoot the nanos?"
"the reason nanoing works is that webs are shorter-ranged than scrams. unless you're proposing 25km web bubbles, this proposal will do very little. also, this wouldn't change empire pvp at allsince dictors can't bubble thereand it would have the unfortunate side effect of making piloting matter a lot in a game whose controls cannot handle it. also, the thing about catching nano ships is that you have to be faster than they are to get them webbed. webbing yourself does not help with that at all, even if the bubble was 99%. nifty suggestion, but i don't think it's viable."
"any kind of aoe web effect used in conjunction with bubbles would be overpowered. simple as that."
"indeed it would and it would harm interceptors and close range boats too."
"make them limit all speed to 500 m/s or another arbitrary number."
"or effect based on signature radius?"
"you would only be able to deploy one at a time? wow, look at that simple fix..."
"because of the existing game mechanics which prevent multiple interdictors from operating in the same system at the same time, right?"
"as you can see in this thread all high sec capitals were removed from empire to lowsec.i think this is an unnessesary harsh policy shown by ccp. the high sec caps were no threat to anybody as they were ruled under non combat regulations and there were only like 10 or so. i demand that those high sec capitals including chribbas \"veldnought\" are to be restored to their old high sec locations."
"sry i did not see that there was allready another thread open.please do not reply to this one but take that one"
"personally i prefer to just give my support to both."
"supporting in the second thread."
"indeed, it's the only way sme people will ever see a dreadnaught hehe.:approve: :o"
"full support, give this mak his veldnaught back!"
"just in case ccp has gone stupid all of a sudden, as they appear to be. i will issue my support in this thread as well. just to be sure."
"supported in both threads."
"so lame, the veldnaught was one of those icons of eve"
"supported both threads.use the nerfbat on the dev who did this, not chribba. seriously."
"all the more votes the better.goonbomb the forums hey, it worked once, they took the forums down for a day! demanding that the single most respected and trusted icon in eve be treated accordingly...... i mean, hell, when winterblink wrecked his car ccp sent him a care package. what does chribba get for all that he does and spends?!??! on supporting eve? a kick in the teeth."
"ccp you suck for doing this....undo it"
"stop before postingthere is an existing thread here for this issue. please post in support of this issue there."
"supporting this in the vain hope ccp will stop killing everything unique in this game"
"edit: meh: i should read before i post. this is not the sanctioned thread!"
"dbl support ^^"
"adding to the duplicate thread in the hope that it gets locked, so that i can deliver this message to ccp mitnal:we know you guys are reading the forums; ccp navigator edited some posts in the main thread in gd.why no official comment?it's really depressing"
"so dumb."
"/second front opened on ccp."
"bring them back."
"/signed! let atleast chribba keep his!"
"gm replied to the thread chribba started. any of the hi sec caps that were moved may petition to have them returned so long as they play by the rules set down in that thread."
"this is quie pathetic, understanding this has already been reversed, but rly people...stop ****ting up the forums with crusdaes for other people."
"ccp gave them back."
"i dont think the problem was them being used in an agressive way. i keep hearing something to the tune of \"aggression by capital ships in high sec is/was punishable by removal of offending capital to lowsec\" whether this was done by a script or by direct gm intervention i do not know."
"well the fact of the matter is we have no idea why they ninja moved all the remaining high sec caps into low sec. about the only game mechanic related reason and tbh the only real reason is that one day the cap ship owner could just say **** it wardec some newb corp and go blow up a bunch of ships and then lol at ccp for letting them keep thier cpa ship in high sec as they cancel thier account. so this is aimed at de-fanging the effected caps so they are truely useless at anything but mining ore in belts."
"i beleive onlining guns and such already got you concorded. if them even having power gets you blown up i fail to see how they could be used \"aggresively anyway\""
"apparently it was not all of them. at least two people have chimed in to report their caps are still in high sec. i have not heard of even a single other person reporting that their cap was moved.so at the moment it looks like it was specific to the veldnaught"
"increase rep/shield transfer range to 100km.discuss."
"logistics are reasonably balanced as is. i don't really think they need buffing atm."
"actually, they've already done that. you just have to train up a ship designed for logistics."
"the aptly named \"logistics\" class of ships have a 71.4km range when using large remote reppers. is that not enough?"
"obviously not, if i'm proposing for more range.logistics reps up to ~72km, not 100."
"and why do you think logistics need this buff ?"
"i'm guessing he's tired of being primaried and popped in a fight and he wants to hang back even more."
"if anything i would say a bigger drone bay or a bandwidth reduction to go with the drone bonus. having 100% bonus on 2-3 light repper drones is still kinda sad. :"
"pretty much, seeing as how that's the logistics role."
"unlikely this will ever go through in light of what has happened to chribba & the other high sec cap ship pilots... but i've been thinking about this for a while and now seems as good a time as any to post what i thought was that once someone has built an impressive standing with a particular faction, that they should be trusted enough by that faction to be allowed capital ships in their space. maybe even a graduated permission, like 9.8 standing for small caps, 10.0 for supercaps.all those capital ships would be bound by a non-aggression policy, violation resulting in concord pulling out their planet class ships that can pop a titan in a couple of hits.maybe also limited to only being able to cross the low/high sec divide once per 24 hours to stop people from gathering in high sec, jumping into low/nil, and then jumping back to protect themselves from retaliation.just would be nice to get some kind of recognition of reaching very high levels of standing with a faction other than a warm glow, and also give those of us who are empire huggers something to aim for once we have a fleet of marauders in the hangar!"
"just no.caps in highsec should be unique, landmark things which not just any alt who has been grinding faction can get.9.8 doesn't take that long, and 10.0 is still possible although needs a lot more effort."
"check out cosmos missions. also a titan in jita even if it took 10.0 standing would be the most abusive thing evar. <corp chat> everyone undock and loot.be the most impressive km many of them every had."
"your idea is so senior."
"1. remove learning skills.2. add +10 too all attributes +10% learning skillnow we got this plague off my game. i've rank 1 learnings all at level5 and rank 3 at level4, and i don't give a damn if i loose that sp, learning sux hardcore big time for new players."
"so you're 1/3 done, and are willing to reap all the benefit for free? how magnanimous of you"
"learning skills exist so as to increase the speed at which sps are gained. therefore rather than call for yet more unpopular learning skills, surely a simpler solution is to just ask ccp to increase the rate at which sps accrue accross the board?"
"well sollution to removing would be simple. add skillpoints that got removed to pool. and you train 2x faster skills using sps from pool until all are taken from that pool ;]"
"i support the idea of making skills train faster across the board. maybe make a 10-20% increase in speeds, but i don't think that we need any more learning skills though.and those who say that charisma is not needed, last i checked there is a load of social and trade skills as well as leadership. if you don't need those skills don't take a character with high charisma. if you do, take that char. end of discussion."
"i support this only because i have 3 chars with maxed out learning. it's a bad idea for that game and will never go live.ccp has previously stated they will never add more learning skills although they also previously stated they wanted to remain a unique game, which they are rapidly moving away from toward the mainstream of massive fail, so who knows."
"how about removing the skills and instead boosting training speed?a. reduces the entry curve i remember spending my first month on them, and has since then spent another oneb. reduces the cost for skills for new playersc. this makes the attribute choices more important making different characters less similarreplace the skill points spent by spreading them equally on every other skill that character has."
"well the fact remains that i still have spent 2months time getting those up? newer players won't have to worry. if i had, had this benefit i would've had sp in other stuff instead."
"at a glance i'm seeingthis would also give more for small gangs to do instead of just shooting up station facilities. also a good idea in general well done."
"someone from csm please ask ccp what rewards they plan for fw ranks."
"tactical repositioning = mwdfighting = abironically most speed users thinking an ab = death will actually be fairing much, much better in combat as long as webs are nerfed. and there was much rejoicing"
"i have to agree that the system is brutal, it tries to mirror life and life is brutal and real.you can get hurt and you can be killed just by walking out your door. here it is if you undock. it is why we have to pay attention in rl and have to do so here.simple maxim to remember do not undock unless your ready to lose your ship and its kit.if you never undock then you never have to worry about getting shot. you will just stagnant. same for real life, take no chances and you will be nothing and accomplish nothing."
"involuntary combat is why i play eve. 3.3mill sp, i don't fly around ganking people. irl theres involuntary combat, at least concord has a decent response time"
"while i'd like to think that, the outcry from the forum concerning the unnannounced removal of all capital ships from high sec to low sec with no explanations given by anyone from ccp to date as to why the changes were implemented regarding the current assembly hall post about reinstating the veldnaught and other high sec capitals with 150+ support posts in less than 6 hours after the change was discovered and climbing does lead to the conclusion that there must be a method of speeding up the wheels of bureaucracy within both the csm and with csm/ccp communication."
"is ridiculous. it is not a csm issue."
"when you consider that in less than 8 hours this problem has attracted 300 support posts in the assembly hall not including those who supported but didn't check the \"support\" box, not to mention a 400+ post thread in gd you tend to come to the conclusion that this is an issue that the playerbase feels strongly about. hence, while you believe that it's not a csm issue, 300 others disagree and that number is still climbing rapidly.personally, i'm of the belief that this shouldn't need to be a csm issue, as ccp could easily post their reasons for making this change out of the blue, however the silence from ccp both prior to and after this change may necessitate it becoming one, not because of this particular issue, but because if we don't speak out when a change like this is dropped upon the game without explanation then whats to stop ccp dropping an unannounced change onto something you do care about?"
"yes, 300 support posts, which could just be as low as 50 or so if people vote with alts and other characters on their account.let's assume every vote there is an individual player. 300 people care. that's nothing, and objectively speaking, their issue is a really a non-issue."
"absolutely correct, it's not a csm issue.additionally, the csm does not need a csm only forum for discussion here on the eve-o forum. if you desire a csm only forum, then create a website yourselves and populate it with the topics you see fit and discuss those topics you see fit, in private.edit: to remove anything that may be deemed controversial"
"nonsense. the csm has authority to question and advise ccp on any and every issue related to eve. this certainly qualifies."
"jc flies a falcon, nerf."
"this is simple, really. it really does not need to be complicated. the current mechanic works just fine.if you don't plan ahead, you lose. that is what this game is all about. if i get killed by you, no one has right's to my wreckage, it is now a first come first serve. think of the myriad of shipwrecks in the atlantic ocean, who has rights to those? no one! if you cannot handle the fact that you didn't plan ahead, and work with a friend then you are a tool. that makes eve read: everyone v. everyone a fair playing field. to the winner goes the spoils? negative! to win is not enough if you are not intelligent. if you win and you are not smart, you do not deserve the spoils. join the darwin award alumni instead, and learn from your experience.edit: btw, i'm not a scavenger bottom-feeding off other people's wrecks for \"teh phat lootz\" so that phony counter argument does not apply"
"this needs to be brought back to the front page and kept there.let's get a word, a fix, something... even a vote for love of whatever!"
"supported. t2 ammo is inferior to faction ammo by a significant margin, and often is inferior to its t1 equivalents. my .02isk is that the cap and speed penalties should be removed from all faction ammo, and t2 heavy missiles should have their range penalty removed as well. these penalties are simply too severe. i would never use rage missiles on any ship i pilot, and the dps penalty for precisions make them useless more often than not."
"completely agree."
"9 months and waiting for our logo....i support this 100%"
"supported!not only is it frustrating to have no idea about when alliance submissions will be available again. we had ours submitted under the old system, pending review for 6 months before that system was wiped and a post was put up about alliance logo submissions being on hold.lets hope our support for the csm and this thread can help get something done about very serious problem sooner, rather than later.this is more important than restoring peoples dreadnoughts in high-sec"
"as someone who creates alliance logos for people as a service, i definitely have to support this."
"1 falcon did more damage than 8 phoenix's combined"
"/signed.black ops should become a lot more popular, as they could be such great fun factors, and are very underused and underestimated atm."
"agreeing 100% point for point. bo bs are expensive as hell, especially for roaming gangs. they need optimal far more than they need dps, especially since they can't warp cloaked.from day 1 of thinking on the t2 scorp i wanted it to be rails & ecm at range. it would even provide a thought-provoking tradeoff - both would require noticeable cap. you can indefinitely sustain one, or the other, but not both unless you fit for it lose a mid with a cap booster, lose an ecm str mod with a damage mod, etc.. give it 5 turrets.the redeemer should have just 7.5% optimal, and because of its 6 turrets it won't be dealing amazing dps, but it can fit more mods for it than the widow making it more useful and with pulse & scorch can get some good ranges with a fairly nice passive tank.for the panther i'm clueless, falloff is **** and unless you turn it into a muninn knockoff lol it won't accomplish much after the nano nerf. i might go as far as to say give it the missile bonuses because large projectiles are just crap, but...yeah. i want to say move a mid to a low but i have little experience toying with the panther's setups.replace the sin's agility bonus seriously what? with a drone range bonus a la ishtar. however, leave the sin with the shortest targeting range, so you either fit to use heavies at range with a slight tank or you fit to use sentries at longer range with less tank. i want to say move a mid to a low again but i have equally little experience with the sin's setups.and if you're going to leave them with 20% less base hp, give them better t2 resists for the love of god. preferably in line with or better than the marauders, but probably less than the cloaky recons. 40%/20% sounds good to me.also, spare room in drone bays!also also, increase the fittings! don't need more slots, just more fittings to actually use them not including widow, which has plenty of fittings for ecm+whatever"
"so less black-ops and more hauling-ops really.it's got to be one thing or another, try to make it all things to all people and it'll end up either overpowered or uselessly broken stat-wise. instead you could either:make it an escort ship by removing the cloak bonuses, giving dst's access to the bridges, a fuel bay, increased jump range, and either a small fighter bay or logistics ship level remote reps but a maximum of only two targets.make it a black-ops ship by giving them all ew bonuses, covert ops cloaks, low dps, the covert only jump bridge, a fuel bay, and increased jump range.make it a rapid-response ship, boost the dps to standard bs levels, drop the cloak, give hac's and deny recons access to the bridges, add a fuel bay and increase the jump range.their survivability will never be as high as a capital ship.their flexibility will never be as high as a carrier ship.their cost efficiency will never be as high as a t1 bs.therefore they have to have \"something\" extraa mini-carrier with cargo-logistics is unique and valuable on and off the battle-field.a bs cov-ops is to recons as the marauder is to hac'sa rapid-response ship is a poor excuse for a hot-dropping or fleet carrier but allows you to get support ships in fast when and where they are needed.the theme is that t2 is the step up from t1 in either combat features or functionality, t3, 4 and 5 should probably be equal to but different to t2 providing greater variety for veterans. therefore i see very little wrong with making t2 bs superior to t1 so long as it stops there and does not continue on up to t5. if this were the issue some make it out to be we'd see eccm fitted overheating marauders in fleets all over the place. if we ever do then the problem is more likely to be the economy than the ships.what we don't need is a ship class that is pulled out for jumping haulers around and then shelved again. if that's what we really want then we need haulers with jump-drives."
"/signedand this light flashing green when my launchers are on is so slightly noticeable !i wish we had some freedom in setting the ui.."
"so.. you can see unboardered white text on a white background?that is some serious magic you have there."
"i am not sure i feel better about this issue seeing the dev's response. when you start talking 'awesome' it often means the artists want to show off their skills and making complex, cluttered things."
"sweet ^^"
"i support this idea."
"/signed"
"ccp,please make market orders created as corp market orders modifiable by other corp members. at the moment only the creator of a corp market order is able to modify it.this could open for true trading corps, where different corp members could manage corp orders across time zones. at the moment market trading is more like a one-man venture because he is only one who can manage that particular order anyway.at best, create a new skill and a new role for this."
"if need be i will support this with my 26 other alts as well"
"supportedand in true goon fashion i can also throw a few alts in to supportsick of trying to remember which alt placed which order and who i need to log in with to change it."
"/signed"
"signed, as the head sales guy it sucks that my 200 some odd orders cannot be modified if im indisposed for a week and someone needs some liquid capital."
"yep this is needed."
"a significant improvement to the operation of a corporation; encourages team play in the markets."
"i'd be curious as to why this isn't in place already, because it seems like common sense."
"signed 300%!"
"hell yesthis would make life as a corp leadership soooo much easier"
"i know i suggested this like a hundred years ago, but glad to see the idea being brought up again./signed"
"definately signed"
"signed"
"signed."
"2 hours for damsel? that should take you about 25-30 mins! maybe 45 if you're not very good."
"god, this tired old argument.80% of characters in hi-sec does not, repeat not mean that 80% of players want to be hi-sec exclusively.one possible interpretation is that many 0.0 players come to hi-sec to make isk, for instance. like i do.which is, you know, kind of the point of this thread."
"nah, about 2 hrs.i already suggested that ccp should just double the hp's, damage and resistances of all npc's in the game. making high-speed isk farming from missions much harder, if not virtually impossible.not much, as in none, support for it. thus, the op's request is simply meta-griefing. i do not, in principle, oppose meta-griefing, but at least be honest about it..."
"i for one am absolutely content living in highsec. i usually try to have fun when i play, and lowsec/nullsec just is not fun for me. moving level 4 missions won't make me go there more, it will simply make me stop running them.you can't just move the entire game into nullsec... of course you guys want more action, but what about eve's versatility? leave some room to the casual players to have some fun in highsec without getting blown to pieces every bloody minute.just my feelings."
"that's odd. there is a persistent rumor going around, saying that nullsec is way more profitable than highsec, and that if you want to really earn some serious isk you have to go there. you mean all that is just a big lie? if you come to highsec to make isk, what do you do in nullsec?oh, wait... i get it. you come to highsec to make isk, and nullsec is for having fun blowing everything to shreds, including yourself occasionally - so you have to go back to highsec to make isk. in essence, moving level 4 missions to nullsec would spare you the bother of a trip to highsec, and hopefully bring forth more untrained cannon fodder for you.sorry for the sarcasm, i am just wondering... what exactly do you propose to achieve by moving level 4 missions to nullsec? i mean really. would it not just be a convenience for players already well set up in nullsec? by the way, you guys have chosen to live in nullsec just as i have chosen to live in highsec. get to grips with what that choice pertains to, you can't have highsec's advantages moved to nullsec for you."
"as a 0.0 resident and a casual high sec. player, i have to give this a thumbs down.pirates would have a field day. more targets and an easy way to raise sec. standing just run missions in lowsec. i think there would be a large increase in pirate activity, greatly increasing the risk. i don't think we need to change the way ore is distributed right now. having more valuable ore in lower security systems seems fine.i haven't done much rp in eve, so cannot really comment on the rp reasons."
"so you commute to losec because that's the best place to earn isk safely. why don't you just get another account to run missions in hisec and keep your main in 0.0 like everybody else? maybe life in 0.0 isn't for you if you can't be bothered to deal with the risks and prefer the carebear life in hisec."
"are you dumb?"
"aww now the alt goes away and the real pirate comes out to play.i don't run missions. i have no vested interest.you're a pirate. your vested interest is more targets in places you can go.which one of us is unbiased?oh, i don't shut up because of abuse by loud mouths trying to shout people down with 'obvious' facts which are, in fact, entirely unsubstantiated opinions that also happen to support a hidden agenda.you do.perhaps your claims are true numbers, but you cannot prove it and my experience says otherwise so you certainly cannot prove it to me without actual statistics that you probably don't have access to.missions do need some fixing and attention. but moving them out to serve the interests of pirates whining for easy ganks isn't the way to go about it.if you cannot debate civilly, then please don't bother to attempt it at all. you're only embarrassing yourself."
"discussed to death, ccp need to give us a definitive answer so we can all get back to our e-lives."
"look, you bozo, i was discussing this civilly until you started getting your panties in a twist and throwing around accusations and assumptions. i've been discussing this from a stand point of common sense, something which you are obviously lacking in. you are obviously heavily biased in this discussion, as you have not been arguing properly at any point in the discussion. instead you have been picking on small stuff, trying to poke holes in arguments by discussing strawmen and irrelevant stuff.i'm not a flippin' low sec pirate. look at my security status. i'm a high sec dweller who happens to like shooting stuff. i don't gate camp. i don't do belt piracy anymore. i dec idiots with too much cash and relieve them of it. moving missions to low sec would not affect me in any positive way in the short run. it would deprive me of my safe primary income. however, i recognize that drastic measures need to take place, and i would not be opposed to moving missions to lowsec. however, i believe - as i've stated multiple times - that a much better option would be to just nerf high sec mission rewards drastically. this would balance them enough so that you bears can keep your safe fun, and at the same time balance out the economy.before you go blathering about me wanting this or that, try to read some of my friggin' posts and see where i stand on the issue. stop attacking people and start attacking their arguments. just frappin' stop!can't say [shorter word for intercourse] cause it got me banned last time"
"epithets get you no points and no respect.obviously your definition of 'civilly' and mine are entirely different. i'm sorry you're all upset because i called you on your 'facts' and asked you to back up your claims which you clearly cannot do or you would have by now.getting all mad, insulting and foul mouthed about it isn't earning you any points or convincing anyone of your position. i've given you numerous opportunities to do that and you've not taken even a single one. perhaps you really don't have an agenda that claim was made by others who apparently know you better than i and in this same thread - i simply accepted it because their arguments, unlike yours, made sense. given your behaviour, which has become quite rude and defensive, i'm afraid i'm far more likely to believe them then you.presenting facts or at least detailed personal experiences which can be discussed in a mature way is the way to make a point. not claiming that your position is 'obvious' when, at least to some, it very clearly is not.i am done wasting my time with you."
"this post has been cleared of inappropriate content.regards,the eve online moderation team"
"i agree with the op. there needs to be more reward and incentives for fw to be worth while.some fw specific rewards would be pretty cool too."
"i don't see any reason why fw corps should be treated differently than independant corps. what makes a corp enlisted in the militia -- and therefore likely to be a pvp corp based in lowsec and surrounded by allies who could choose to come to their defense -- less able to fend for themselves than a independant non-pvp corp that is completely on their own?i wouldn't mind seeing some revision of the wardec system, with changes designed to prevent out-and-out, endless, griefing. but i can't see the logic in giving special treatment to fw corps."
"ok, i'll bite, and give you the benefit of the doubt and assume that you don't really understand the implications. why would a corp especially one who belongs to existing player alliance want to sign up for fw when they can just war-dec one of the major corps that is engaged in fw? in case you have a hard time figuring it out, doing the latter allows them to carry the fight into enemy high-sec space without interference from that faction's navy, thus completely side-stepping the mechanics of fw while working to influence the outcome of it.so, short answer to your question is that they may need to do it to protect the integrity of fw, even though, yes, the side effect of it would suck. that's what happens when you have wise-guys in the game who lay awake at night trying to think of ways around things."
"i do not claim to know all of the people enlisted in fw or all of the corps/alliances who have wardec'd those corps.that said, all of the alliances i do know of that have wardec'd fw corps are roleplaying alliances example, electus matari. i, for one, would not be willing to disband my alliance, that cost me a billion isk to create, just to play fw. so, if i were in their position, i'd wardec the corporations on the other side as well.also, not everybody who wardecs an fw corp gives a damn about fw - i for one wouldn't look to see if someone was in fw or not before i wardec'd them. if i have a reason to dec, i'm gonna dec.part of being in a corporation is the risk of wars. wars inconvenience you, even in highsec which is safer, not safe - they haven't completely nerfed risk out of the game yet. a corp that willingly jumps into fw doesn't need to consider the possible risk of wardecs.. they should've considered it when they made or joined a player corp to begin with."
"you do not have to disband an alliance to participate in fw. corps within the alliance can leave temporarily and participate. individuals can leave temporarily and participate, but they should do so under the same set of mechanics that everyone else participating in fw must abide by. doing so makes perfect sense from a rp point of view. why are you going to squabble out on the frontier when your core empire is under attack? of course you're going to go enlist and help your empire's fleet.no, not everyone who war-decs a fw corp is trying to participate in fw without joining it, but some people are, and they have said so on these forums. unfortunately, the devs have no way to tell them apart.the devs do not want existing alliances determining the outcome of fw. that is why they excluded them. if people can't abide by that, and side-step it, the devs need to plug that hole somehow to protect the integrity of fw, otherwise, fw becomes pointless and dies. if they don't just make fw corps immune from outside war-decs, the less intrusive step would be to treat corps that war-dec militia members just as if they were in the militia i.e. they would get attacked by the opposing navy in enemy high-sec space, and be war targets to everyone in that militia. this would, in effect, be letting alliances into fw, which the devs said they didn't want to do, but it would at least be a step in the right direction.do you have a better solution?"
"yep. player corps faced with a wardec make a choice between: a. fight back.b. get help.c. run away. d. surrender. and stop asking for the eve wardec system to be broken in your favour because you have joined a \"pvp\" faction \"war\" and have gotten omg wardecced.we don't need a solution because there isn't a problem."
"would the war mechanics be broken if my alliance could simply declare war on one corp of another alliance... thus in return that alliance could not help out that one corp?oh, and lets not forget in fw you also get safe space and no npc navies. wow."
"as you have been told about 1001 times in half as many threads. fw militias are not alliances."
"come on. i know you aren't that dumb.fleet battle between faction a 30 man fleet and faction b 30 man fleet. here comes 10 ships from gr33f4lulz corporation, who has sided with faction a. and war-decced one of the 4 corporations in faction b's fleet. so, 6 of the ships in faction b's fleet are valid war targets for gr33f4lulz, and the other 24 ships in the fleet can't even assist them without incurring a sec status hit.faction a wins, gr33f4lulz... well... lulz, and faction b says \"this is bull****, to hell with fw\".mind explaining to me how that isn't a bs abuse of the game mechanics that compromises the dev's vision for fw?you're right, there is no problem, as long as you don't give a flying f at a rolling doughnut whether fw succeeds as a game mechanic or not.for someone who was elected to advocate for the good of the game, you sure don't seem to be.... you know... advocating for the good of the game."
"ok 50 man miltia fleet, 1 poor sod in a war dec corp, gets taken out while the rest of the fleet are helpless and cant help him. that is wrong !"
"yea, but the same mechanic would be wrong in one circumstance, and not the other? why is that? fw militias are not alliances... that's pretty much agreeable, same as caldari is not gallente... but yet they undergo the same mechanics. i just don't understand. why?"
"its absolutely right. if you are in the npc militia corp you have no right to fire without concord intervention on a player corp in empire outside the militia. you are protected by the npc corp membership - price of that protection is impotence in the situation you describe. if you consider that price is too high then join a player corp and do something about it."
"ok, i understand that, though player corps are directly war dec'ing fw player corps to swing the tide of the war . . .it just seems to me that fw player corps are leaving because of this reason :"
"yep and thats entirely how its supposed to work. both sides could hire mercenaries to strike at the other from the respective hisec as is happening and 3rd parties could involve themselves for whatever reasons they choose. and of course since militias are not alliances any corporation or alliance could still have valid reason to target a corporation affiliated with a militia for personal reasons. you can't alter that without breaking eve and making the militia a haven for wardec avoidance exploit.the answers to the fake \"problem\" discussed in the op are already on offer. a. fight back.b. get help.c. run away.d. surrender. all the tools are already in place and militia affiliation should in nowise give additional protection against wardecs to individual corps.fw does have problems that we've already helped to point out. but this isn't one of them."
"post constructively. ~saint"
"ok jade, i see what your getting at :ive only been doing in 10 days or something, lets see how it pans out"
"post constructively. ~saint"
"nice to see somebody open to reasoned debate to be honest. thanks for that. as for the long term - i think fw will be fine, but what needs to happen is the rollout of additional rewards for militia members corps and individuals that give them reason to be in the firing line for more than just medals. some nice loyalty point stores, special mods and ships and such. basically a reason to fight. if there is an incentive to stay in and handle adversity we'll see a better response to the challenge of the environment and more robust way of facing up to wardecs. at the moment you have a weird situation where people can just skip to the npc militia for near complete protection and the corps do have problems against wardecs because a they don't want to fight, b nobody will help them fight, and c there isn't a fiscal motive for them remaining in the militia anyways. this tends to lead to collapse and running away and dissolution in adversity and snowballs because the former members of defeated corps join other corps with a litany of defeatist carping and spread poor morale like a psychic plague. i think the solution is make being a corp in the militia more profitable - make the missions and plexing more rewarding - make it something worth fighting to retain access too. i think corp members in the militias should get more loyalty points than npc militia members since they are more vulnerable. something like that. give people a reason to fight and fight hard and the game benefits."
"ooo.. excuse me. i'll post constructively.there is no reason for corporations to join the militias if doing so just puts them at a disadvantage in the part of the game that they're trying to participate in. why would they do so, and be a valid war target for the entire opposing militia, and be hindered in the opposing militia's high-sec space, when they can simply war-dec one corp in the opposing milita and be immune from both?this is clearly not the dev's vision for fw. their vision is being contravened by s few wise-guys in the game who think they're brilliant and that everyone else, including the devs, aren't. what are the devs going to do about it?"
"personal attacks are not permitted on the forums. ~saint"
"just because you cannot see the reason doesn't mean there isn't one. why are outbreak involved in the minmatar militia as a corp? they don't seem to be having these \"problems\". why are dead parrots involved in the gallente miltiia as a corp? they seem to be doing pretty well. why are slackers involved in the amarrian militia as a corp - you get the idea. corporations join militias for the benefits of being corporations corp hangers/corp assets/wallets/corp channels and command and control and what they get for joining as a corp is access to the fw militia content medals/rewards/war-room etc and free wardecs vs the enemy militia and all associated corps. their vulnerability is the ordinary vulnerability they have outside the militia association to empire wardecs. it costs isk to wardec individual corps from outside the militia - that is the disadvantage of doing it that way. eve is about choices and variety - there are many ways to prosecute a war and its your choice as to how you go about it.i think you are overstating a personal issue that annoys you because you are from a corporation that probably can't handle the demands of faction warfare on the corp level. its clearly not an issue for other corps outbreak, parrots, slackers and many many others so its wrong for you to state this false problem like a universal truth. its also wrong for you to attempt to speak on behalf of other player's motives - you don't understand them, you have no neccessary insight so i'd ask you to avoid such speculations because they don't help the discussion or the general mood of constructive debate."
"if empire corps are looking for profit they'll keep running l4s.the reason corps join fw is to compete, and win, against other players, not collect loyalty points. as long as you have corps that can influence the outcome without subjecting themselves to the same ristrictions and risks as the milita corps, there is no reason to join the militia. it just gimps you. it's broken. right, or wrong?"
"you are wrong. mainly because you have no perspective or right to tell us why other corps join fw. you don't know is the simple truth. you know why your main's corp did i suspect but you simply cannot know why other players make that choice. everyone does things for different reasons and generalizations like the one you use above doesn't help in slightest. i sense you are frustrated most likely with the performance of your main character's corp in the fw setting which is probably why you choose to use an alt to continue this discussion to protect the main's identity and you're probably just passing on that frustration to this debate but its not really helping. all thats evident is the frustration and not the logic or understanding of the situation."
"which rp alliance fights for the caldari? which caldari corp did you mention above. the only thing annoying me here is that you're playing me for stupid. if you want to have a \"reasoned debate\" stop. not relevant. the stated intent of the devs was to exclude, at least for now, player alliances from determining the course of fw. are you side-stepping that, or not?you need to ask for a refund from whomever sold you that crystal ball. i come from a corporation that doesn't give a damn about fw. i'm advocating for the good of the game, which you should be doing, but are not."
"wtf?? uhhh... yeah, i'm sure they joined for the cool insignias. you need to start making at least a little bit of sense here. the entire proposition of fw was to fight for your faction. it was never held out as a way to get rich, and nobody in their right mind joined it with the idea of doing so, except maybe a few ninja looters and pirates.you're doing that playing me for stupid thing again. i don't appreciate it."
"i simply don't believe you i'm afraid. i find your use of an alt speaks the direct opposite - my past experience of these forums teaches me that people use alts to troll and flame and stir trouble - never to advocate issues for the good of the game. perhaps come back with your main and lets talk."
"i can't know you because you are hiding your identity behind a posting alt. hence i can't judge your past commitment or posting record, i can't know your in-game history, i can't tell if you are serious or just trolling continually to derail threads. you are pretty much the perfect illustration of why posting with alts is destroying debate on these forums.you can't be insulted really because you don't have an identity here. its just an act. i wish you'd post with a real character so people could judge you on past deeds and actions and your bias or lack therein could be seen. as is its a bit pointless."
"i'm afraid your half-vast experience with the forums is leading you atray. i have never posted with my main in 5 years. i have always posted with various alts, and i post on a wide range of subjects about the game, just as passionately as i'm posting here. go look at what i have to say about 0.0 sov, for example.i don't post with my main because 13 year olds actual or intellectual have a difficult time distinguishing between talking about the game, and playing the game. i don't need to be n00bpwnzor!!11!'s, in game enemy for life because he got butt-hurt over something i said on the forums."
"i have no idea why the militias cant get together and have a spokesman for the militia to present a clear proposal.you guys have been given great advice in the other threads to work together to defend each other. has that happened..no. why is a mystery. everyone is so focused on what they perceive is broken rather than using the current mechanics to their own advantage. i guess its easier to whine than actually figuring out how to make your situation better.each militia has a website. on that website you should be putting together a rep from each militia. each rep should work with each rep in opposing militias. from there you can make your voice heard rather than throwing **** on the wall and seeing what sticks.if you want the mechanics of an alliance, you need to start acting like one. because right now you are just acting like a bunch of corps and individuals that can come and go as you like with no worries or any large commitment. kind of like a militia. how about that.here we are and not one of the folks fighting for the fw has supported the op. not one. no thumb, nothing. that is because you have no communication with each other. all we hearing is a bunch of individual alts flailing around with separate and individual point of views."
"i've posted with my main, but if this was a true debate where discussions could only be left here and not carried into the game itself, then i'd be more than happy. if you are not taking my post or any alts post seriously, then you really need to step out of your csm chair and figure things out for yourself. there's absolutely no need for my main or anyone else's to have to post here to make you feel better.truth is... i've played over 5 years... longer than you... i've been through every patch, every nerf, i've done the pirate, i've done the carebear, i've done it all. i'm trained in a wide variety of skills to do just about anything this game can offer. i've been in several alliances, i've been out in 0.0... i've ran pos, i've fc'd, i've scouted, i've done large fleets, nano fleets, pos warfare... yada, yada, yada... i may not be a popular name among eve, but i've done probably far more than you have ever done. period."
"and yet, because you are posting with an alt why would anyone believe you? your posting on this particular alt has been abrasive and rude, you've been unwilling to see other people's points and dogmatically stated the same old disproved theories with nothing but growing irritation to mark your participation in the topic. you are pretty much soapboxing with nothing but your own voice and a couple of other alts to back you up? are those yours as well? who knows any which way its simply not very persuasive. i think you have made a bad mistake to keep your identity hidden for five yours. you should have been building a reputation that people could refer too when considering your points of view. instead you currently don't have one. i'd suggest you begin posting with your main now and begin the task of gaining the credibility you need to take the kind of positions you have been taking. anyways, its your choice end of the day."
"but again, because you are hiding behind an alt identity why should anybody believe you? i can put on a party mask and claim to be the king of siam but without the retinue and bank account sureties its just words. see the problem, you could be anyone - even the other alts in this thread. so all your claims of experience and game knowledge are ultimately just beyond proof or recognition. all i've see of you is this alt and all this alt has done is post ill-informed opinions and boasted how good a troll you are. that really doesn't convince people to take you seriously."
"aren't you supposed to be representing the community rather than judging the community? hell, even i am an alt. why don't you have a go at me?"
"i'll save that till your next election campaign. but on topic, if you feel that we should be taking alts seriously when they claim to have 5 years of experience in every aspect of the game and then post stuff showing they have no clear understanding of eve or the mechanics they are talking about then i disagree. i reserve my right which is common to any other eve player to disregard their input as invalid and unhelpful - eve as single server game with persistent identity for characters gives us the ability to earn and stand on our reputations. i don't respect people who are afraid of their reputations and choose to hide them behind alts. and so yep i don't like or trust opinions hidden behind alt identities - sorry if this offends your sensibilities but there it is and yep - come next election i won't be voting for you for many reasons but up there amongst them is the fact that you are an alt and didn't have the guts to run with your main identity."
"i don't have to convince you who i am. i don't have to appeal to you in any way. you can believe me or not, just like you could be a noob who bought a character online. you could be samuel l jackson playing this game and i'd give two ****s to you. i could expose my main, and yet that still wouldn't prove anything to you. cuz there's nothing i need to prove to you. i'm sensing you personally feel lesser than me, wishing i didn't actually go thru more than you in this game, because then you'd really have no value.truth is, you're just a vocal muppet leader. i've done far more and have experienced far more than you ever have. i've seen this game for everyone since day one... i've dealt with the bad, and admire the good... but one thing i do know is where there is an obvious flaw that promotes abuse and gives advantages to those looking to exploit. you my friend, fall right into that category.now if you want to get back on topic about fw, i'd be more than happy to discuss it with you... but if you still wish to continue to pop your chest thinking you know all, then be my guest."
"i am with jade on this one if you do not like getting wardeced then y are you in factional warfare?"
"run for election with your main then. thats my advise. lets see how you do - if you are so much better than me you should be able to win the chair position easily. with regard to this thread its a defunct argument. its gone round a couple of hundred times already with the same result. no support. anyways, hope to see you on the ballot sheet in september i guess."
"you wouldn't know me if i was! ... and wouldn't that be the biggest ironic turn-around slap in the face best thing ever if you voted for me!"
"i can assure you thats very unlikely :"
"i'm not asking anyone to believe me. i have pointed out the salient points of the argument here, most of which you've simply and conveniently chosen to ignore. not only have you not \"disproven\" most of my arguments, you haven't even addressed them. i'll restate them for you so that you can have another opportunity:the devs explicity stated that they did not want existing player alliance participation in fw combat at this time. you are side-stepping their intent by exploiting the game mechanics. yes, or no?players who choose to participate in fw combat through war-decs, rather than joining the militia, enjoy two imbalanced advantages compared to corporations who join the militias and engage in fw as the devs intended. they are immune from attack by most of the opposing faction, and they can attack unhindered in enemy high-sec space, which was clearly not tne dev's intent when they created fw mechanics. yes, or no?corps who choose to participate in fw through war-decs, rather than as the devs intended, can have a disporportionate influence on fw fleet fights, because they are not valid war targets to part of the enemy fleet. yes, or no?it is more advantageous for a corp, or several corps, who want to influence the direction of fw to war dec individual corps in the militias, rather than taking on the militia and the faction navy. yes, or no?given that, there is every reason not to join the militia if you are a corporation and want to influence fw. clearly not what the devs intended.my assertion is that if you want to participate in fw, you should be subject to the same mechanics as everyone else who is participating in fw. you should not be able to expoit the game mechanics to your advantage, and by doing so gain a disporportionate influence on the outcome. you should not be exempt from the limitations and risks borne by corps that join the militia and participate as the devs intended. do you agree with that, or not? i appreciate your feedback. in my opinion, if my points of view don't stand on their own, they don't deserve any consideration, and neither do yours, fancy icon under your name notwithstanding.feel free to answer this post, or not. i'm just spelling out what i think for the benefit of those reading along. i'm sure you'll disagree, which is fine."
"the disadvantages of being wardecced by a non-fw entity while you are in a fw faction can be countered by several existing mechanics. 1 speak to other corps in your faction and counter war-dec said group. 2 have your faction mates blow them up in low sec the old fashioned way. 3 hire mercs against them. i don't see the caldari state or any other faction taking an interest in one groups political strife and making it its own. not supported."
"say no to removing landmarks from the game, safe the veldnaught"
"i am j4m z and i support and condone this message."
"i'm a day late and a dollar short, but for what it's worth, i wholeheartedly agree.and i sincerely hope ccp learns something about what is and is not acceptable when making changes to the game. this smacks of the f.n.g. pulling a random decision out of his butt shield resist amp \"balancing,\" anyone?, rather than the informed, considered process i we? hoped was in place.---malachy"
"dead on - and besides, i don't see any harm in letting the veldnaught dwell in amarr apart form some ccp internal development issues. exceptions are hard to maintain, but hell stuff like this is what breathes life into eve./signed"
"we have won"
"forgot to check the box"
"sort it out...i hope for ccps sake...the logs show something this time..."
"move chribba back!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! i demand it!!!!!agree with the op!!!!! the veldnaught is an icon in amarr hi-sec"
"guys,issue has already been resolved, chribba's dread was returned to high sec last night.as nice as further posts of support are, they're not really necessary now. time to let this thread die and focus on other issues."
"what flipflopping eh"
"signed"
"ccp stupidity never ceases to amaze.signed"
"good riddence"
"/signed"
"/signed!"
"victory!"
"yes. very yes."
"agreed."
"what is \"the veldnaught\"?"
"also known as \"chribba's modified revelation\" it is capable of doing around 1800dps to veldspar.check the amarr solar system for it"
"move it back!"
"yup"
"ooc: i think this is pretty messed up. i have not yet had a chance to view one of these beauties. also, from what i have read in my short time, many thanks are due to the man behind chribba. i salute you sir in aiding in my first real mmou.ic: i do not find it just that concord has indiscriminately banned previously sanctioned non-military based ships from high security space. the issues of new capital ships was handled in a fine manner and certain ships where grand fathered out being allowed high sec. for no reason at all concord has decided to lift the clause without going through the proper channels. this shall not be tolerated.ovar doce"
"remember:when you have the ability to **** aroud with other peoples' stuff and you **** it up ... try not to **** it upget this **** fixednow~tg"
"fully support the salvage drones"
"i support 2 and 3 here, 1 is ok, but i really like these two ideas. also, support the op.we need a tougher mining ship. add extra skills if you must, but it is sorely needed.i regularly mine in low-sec, but haven't tried 0.0 yet, i might one day.ab"
"cos they cant say anymore it was your client fault delete the cache...."
"/signed.i have also found that drones set on aggressive don't tend to stay there, which can be quite annoying."
"love it! wheres my lvl5 agent to pwn in 0.0"
"in nullsec, the role of agents ie, providing npc content to shoot at for rewards are provided by a combination of belt rats and exploration sites including anomalies detectable via ship scanner. those are easily lucrative enough without having missions. besides missions are linked to the eve backstory and to the npc factions; if there were agents in alliance-owned space, the payments they make would rightfully come from the alliance's coffers, which i think most people would consider pointless."
"this^"
"let me address the role issue with a counterpoint: look at npc controlled nullsec. there are rats, exploration sites, and excellent npc agents. and did i mention the officer spawn chance....lucrative enough? your point there is not valid.as far as backstory goes, as i explained before, the alliance owning the territory doesn't necessarily fund all of the endeavors of the agents. the faction that the agent comes from has their own agenda. look at the missions that are offerred by highsec agents now. they offer encounters against every faction in the game."
"what about the guy who has friends in a big alliance and wants to play with them? for example, i'm pretty sure the goons are big on this - i remember seeing a newbie to do list that had \"step 1: set your clone for station. step 2: self-destruct your pod\" on it, and i'm pretty sure it was theirs. they're a noob-friendly alliance, heavily 0.0 based, and there should be something for their new players to do besides pester their old players for charity. it's not like t1 frigates can tank or gank belt rats, or do a complex. that basically leaves them with light pvp duty, and that's both intermittent and a terrible way to build capital. and even if my specific example is wrong, the situation is hardly inconceivable. a cardinal sin committed by far too many games is preventing people from playing with their friends - people like doing it, and you should make it easy for them. making l1/l2 agents possible in hard 0.0 seems like a good way of doing this. that's not to say l3/l4/l5 agents are a bad idea, but they need a different justification."
"1 what's keeping the alliance members from coming to high sec and working with their new recruit until he's able and ready to enter 0.0 space?2 why doesn't the recruit take it upon themselves to get ready before setting out for lawless space? like training salvaging for free from the business 10 step, so they have a means of making isk. then they have a purpose besides bullet magnet during fleet combat... like cleanup afterwards.3 \"eve is hard, argh!\" or so it goes whenever a carebear complains about something. so why suddenly are we pandering to 0.0 pirates, by providing them an honest day's work while they pass the time between gate camps, mission raiding, and suicide ganks? how about... you want the organized, regimented, pay scale mission running... then stay to the straight and narrow, and play in high sec. if you want to be your own man, and live your own life away from \"the man\"... then go play in 0.0 and quit yer' b!tchin'."
"1 so an old player should be forced to choose between his game friends and his newbie rl friends is what you're saying? people have obligations - if you're the guy who does pos fueling, or you're the main fc, you can't just drop everything to go to highsec with your girlfriend. 2 \"hey, i just started this great new game! i don't get to play it for a week, but i have a character!\"no. that's idiotic. yes, a newbie can mount a salvager in relatively short order, or a warp disruptor, or a handful of other useful modules, but having an income source that requires somebody else donating what is often the most valuable portion of their income stream is no different than making them live off the more explicit kind of charity. 3 pirates are people too. and we already do provide them with something to do between gate camps - ratting. missioning and ratting are so similar in effect that i cannot see why one would be acceptable and another would not. also, you need to refine your list of piratical activities somewhat - 0.0 pirates don't do a whole lot of suicide ganking, what with the lack of concord and all."
"i see you never used capital class ships..."
"i too have lost ships to lag over the 2 years i have played for the first year and a half any ship i lost i would petition and i would have the ship back within a week regardless of weather it was lag or a disconnect. now that the server is barely keeping up with the player load in a moderately busy system they are refusing to record the logs that are so desperately needed to return lag killed ships. ccp has been doing nothing good over the last year. their usefulness ended after trinity graphics are amazing now with the exception of the creation of the csm. emperian age was a crap expansion that had no place in a game that cannot handle the server load. they need to focus on upgrading/replacing their central server with one that has at least twice the processing power/data storage/whatever it is short on. they have made so many updates to the games core systems that i'm sure it is starting to look like spaghetti code. if they cannot take the time to fix these core issues then i am afraid the game they worked so hard to develop is going to fall within the next 5 years. recent features have been added to the game to proved mechanics similar to other mmo's. one of the things i enjoyed about eve is that it was different than most other games i have played. the combat system made sense for the most part, the graphics and physics worked well, and most importantly i could play over a dial-up connection. the devs have been making changes that are not in the best interest of their players. i think i speak for a good portion of the player base when i say \"stop f***ing around and listen to what we have to say!\" the csm was a good idea, if you can follow through and listen to what they bring forward.[edit] used a spell check, am used to writing in firefox which has a built in check not netscape"
"ccp has never reimbursed for desync's anyway. the only thing you can do is try to do a quick relog if you do it fast enough your tank will stay active, which may be impossible if the system is lagging.quick relog: start another eve client, log off the second one properly right after cycling your tanking modules if you have any, immediately log in, hopefully get through the character select screen quickly, and hope you are still alive. considering you were dying for 4 minutes you had plenty of time to do this. oh no you lost a ship in eve, boo hoo, pity you. you can also try using a spell checker, sorting through that mess you call words is worse than ccp's petition system."
"i must respectfully disagree. i have on numerous occasions received a replacement ship with the modules that were destroyed. anything left in the wreck was unreturned however. i would post the logs of these ships being returned but they were all over 8 months ago and were saved on an old computer."
"i dont mind loosing ships m8te.... i dont cry over it.. please go check our killboard and ull see im head of losses always go for outnumberd hard fights, never cry,, even if its a loss to a t1 gooni. as for spelling go be a teacher,, im dyslexic so withought a spell check option here its hard. its not about a single ship, its the fact over time i add up everything its a shed load of time. they have done very litte to amend the pettion system when countless people loose ships unfairly. not only that but my point is once u loose ur ship to a bug this was bug they dont have on record or so they tell me then u come back to make isk and now even that area is so laggy that u make - money as the servers cant handle that area. warping out and loggin is an option but when u are scrambled as i was in the situation where i lost my last ship, u cannot warp out.... im sure ud make a great misses doutfire though."
"you can easily use a spell checker in a browser like firefox or you can copy your text to an external application like textpad.eve is unfair naturally. so what you are saying is they should reimburse every loss related to lag in any way. i would find this a waste of time for gm's as there is already insurance, and losing a ship is no big deal, and people lose ships to 'lag' all the time even though in a majority of the cases they would have lost their ship anyway even if there wasn't any lag. and yes you can log out even if you can't warp away, and log back in 10 seconds later and fix the desync you had that way."
"well i was seriously ****ed off and out of time at work in tea break making my first post,, so yee it will be scetchy at best > no i dont think ccp should remburse every ship loss esp if it is just lagg, but they can work on the petion system, they can work on making it work better around lag. insurance? right.. well once u get away from t1 stuff u get nothing back, esp with rigs/ faction stuff... for sure if my last loss was the same as normal in a mission like a t1 bs then id be way less ****ed, but in the situation i was in the game left me only one option. that option is not possible with lagg, my petioner responder agreas with me on this. his sugestion was to move system.... ok then so the game cant handle even this now. if i die to lagg in 0.0 pvp i hardly grumble, alough when u fly a gista faction web inty with pollys allot forward scoute hence also losses galore and one slip of the mouse , tiny bit of lag or even recently bug where i could not see my mods where ready to fire not flashing but agressed when i locked someone > infront of centries.. they dont have this bug at all aparently i do wince :p my alt just lost 4 t1 stabbers in a row . no it doesnt hurt even if it was all to lag,, im talking 380 odd hours worth of my time lost to bug/lag and simply bad game design when they developers know fully well how they have desgined rules/missions. now im really tierd :p so ill probelry have to answer ur next post morow but u treat me like a noob again ill have to dig out all the goonie kills.. the me v 17 of u fights."
"if you purposely put yourself into laggy situations knowing that it will lag, then really you can't blame them, can you?case in point, missions. you said you lost ships in level 4 missions. get the **** out of motsu"
"while i hardly think its world ending to lose ships to lag..oh well just more time in eve to get a new onei do fervently hope the powers that be would please do more to upgrade \"the server\" yes give us awesome newness you did now how about some peace of mind...like not dying just cus i jumped into a mega lag system filled to the brim with reds who are exploiting that same lag..hehehe. now dying cus they all primary me..hey thats life and kinda kewl in a ******ed i shouldnt have done that way..but not because of lag."
"not in motsu but its nice to hear at least for my point there are other systems like this.... my point is not one loss, many, in each case there are things u can do to improve the situation...ill go over one of them.. lev 4s > know u must understand ccp know a large amount of people will be suffering this lagg in allot of lev4 missions every turning hour of eve. they design the missions so u have to control ur drones in reel time. if u cant it changes the way u have to aproach ur missions. one simple change to the way that works and sudenly 6000 players dont have that issue. i dont blame them there is lagg, but i blame that they know there is bad lagg and do very little towards rembursemnt when the rules/leves are not desgined to combat it... if they spent as much time as they do advertising and bringing in more people who make the situation worse, to addressing some really simple things it would help loads. the game no longer functions in almost every asspect > posses/ large fleet fights/ fw with centry fire on little ships with lagg/ and finally ur way of making ur isk to go do all the rest. id like a cry o meter for the amount of people at any given time finding lagg in all of the above... it'll be on lev 10 out of 10 for a good portion of the players.. i dont know i was never a programmer if there is anyway when u die a screne shot could be sent as well as a logg this would most likly add more lagg though to ccp so they can see an untamperd image of what was going down. its taken 5 years of crappy buggs and now finally my last way of keeping all the other lag/bug related losses in check also destroyed to make me say no i dont think u deserve another euro to a game i have much admired. the last loss when i was pettioning i knew with the policy they would not remburse, but i did get the gm to addmit the game is now floored for lev4 when u add lagg . his sugestion was same as urs , dont try and play in that sytem and move to another... soon it will be just dont play if all they do is add more people. if i spent as much as i have put into this game be it time and euors into a reel life product, ie a car and it was broken/could not function id get my money back. i cant do that with ccp and imginary ships but i can say enough is enough and no i wont put up with it. id much rather help them make the game better but when u tell them of a new bug, they a dont remburse u since its not on there list and b dont even bother to follow it up to see if there is a new issue to deel with .raghh raghh cuts down rat"
"sad day, a great loss to evemyself, i don't fly anyting i can't stomach losing unfairly"
"unfortunately that appears to be my downfall or i'm just getting too old. not sure if ur taking the micky out of me for \"sad day... a great loss :p\" but i know i will miss my friends and all those who blew me up or i ate corpses of. eddit unlucky pill there we go can retier in stlye. i have to say i still rate this as the best game i've ever played... sure there our many others that come close but they have done allot of things so very well.... it has come so far from my first 0.0 jump where m0o where doing the dirty and u dint even see what happened.. was still worth it to say ud jumped in :. second time round some hour later i did manage to see myself die and that was the start of a hunger for killing things. seeing for a few seconds my own frozen corpse and wishing there was some sauce about. i went way over the top with getting angry earlier but it means allot to me for a game and if it wasn't for the numbers vs. connection problem then would have 100 x better game... everyone can see that. i do think they misgudge what was in my view the drive behind the initail game... its hard, i see it first hand in other mediums when u do well and make a name and expand so fast something of the core team is saturated. i really try not to complain about much as i like allot they have done. perhaps if one of my fellow corpies can take over the solo kills ill get twitchy in the paws... ... or i could just be egging them on since well no more fw for me till account is closed.. where is that sabre?: my last honest piece of advice to u is .: if an admiral in your alliance ses he board with politics and is going to start a really dedicated pirate corp. and ses things like \"get him my prittes\" with a plan to back it up ..do not miss the chance. i wish u all good hunting, and if ur not hunting yet but want to listen to somthing that gets u in the mood just type preditor rap into goolge video and ull get the picture eddit,, for all of my ankle byting thrests ccp .. sry it really wont happen i do thank u for the good times i wish all the best at find ninja ways of turning this game into what it so deserves to be. ps sorry i ate the hamsters it was me;/"
"signed to help bring to ccps's attention,bugs are a pain"
"hey look, it's me supporting a ui thread. seriously though, this one looks much better than most - only xaen's has approached this level of completeness that i've seen."
"they do have a whole team dedicated to overhaul the ui as far as i know, so it's not like ccp has forgotten.that said, the current situation is not as we would like it to be, so it would be good to get some more details on what ccp has planned for us in this aspect."
"very good list this needs to be top of csm pile."
"greetings. i'm author one of of that list of usability issues.i planned to post topic here in assembly hall about it and found this theme. :that list is intended to be help tool for ui team of ccp - so that they can concentrate on improving ui and not searching for problems.in linked theme people are writing their support for list in form of \"/signed\" messages - so, if you want to estimate what support our idea have, please proceed to that topic."
"a nice list this is.ccp look at they must."
"signed"
"long overdue.also, make the ui multithreaded so we don't freeze when opening the stupid market window."
"i'd say not \"multithreaded\" but \"asynchronous\", because literal multithreading is not possible in common game application due to perfomance and synchronization issues."
"pdf takes too long to load on a deployed military ship so im just going to support this out of the general idea that it calls for a look into improving the ui."
"putting all the whines and biased opinions aside... fw is a new game mechanic, and some issues have arose and need to be re-examined. i'm posting as many that i can think of... not all i agree with or deem an issue, but i believe they need to be looked at.please support for the simple fact that all these issues in fw need to be looked at again under the microscope.1. the effects of two wars with two separate rules of play. a. militia not being able to defend their own militia counterparts. b. safe space being given to those 'outside' fw deccing militia corps. c. npc navies ignoring corps outside fw deccing militia corps.2. neutrals non-fw players having battle impacts. a. lootings b. repping/boosting chosen parties c. helping in hi-sec d. security losses when engaging neuts involved in fw3. spies4. lack of worthy rewards for time and efforts a. defense/offense plexing having little effect b. no advantageous gains to persons or corps gaining victory points5. alliances and corps in alliances participating or staying out.6. idea that continued abuse of fw mechanics will lead to its demise and ruin the impact of what fw initially set out to be.7. no clear objectives, no path to victory, no end in sight for fw players looking to 'change' the outcome. when does anyone win?8. npc navies need a boost?9. npc in your faction attacking you if you enter an enemy mission. i.e. gallente navy npc attacking you if you enter a caldari mission against gallente it don't happen in complex."
"no support. fw is not a pvp \"instance\" and never should be. it should definitely continue being open to influence from the rest of eve."
"influence, yes, influence with several clear advantages, no. you can add to the list:npc in your faction attacking you if you enter an enemy mission. i.e. gallente navy npc attacking you if you enter a caldari mission against gallente it don't happen in complex."
"okay, so you find nothing even remotely worthy to look at in the above list? what if this thread gets 200 supports that fw simply needs to be looked at again? that's the only real issue i'm proposing, and yet you think its perfect already? damn... your personal opinion is what this thread is trying to avoid. sorry you already see it that way, but i think its your job to listen to what people have to say. right?"
"we discussed 4 separate issues pertaining to faction warfare and provided the fw development team with a whole lot of direct feedback from the players involved with fw a month or so ago. your list is mainly involved with arguing against external influence on fw by promoting it as a pvp instance and as such no, i don't find it at all useful or support worthy and i won't be supporting it. and for the record i've listened to pretty much everything the pro-instancing lobby have argued for and reached an informed position in disagreeing with you completely.fw is not perfect, and we have proposed many and significant changes already. but the things you are complaining about are not problems.-note: the only thing in your post that has merit is: and we've already said as much to the fw dev team in the direct consultation documents we submitted. they know."
"please explain to me what you think 'pvp instance' means? i'm not against external forces involving in fw, but i am against clear advantages of external forces using and abusing what they do, because of the existence of fw."
"where the heck do you get that i was complaining about problems? and quite frankly, i'm appalled that you can sit here and assume you know what i think is right and wrong with fw. i personally think you have your own idea, and should keep that to yourself and explore the ideas of others. thus, promoting your job.on another note... please link me to your public records of the council's discussions on fw issues. all the issues that have been listed, should be discussed. if you haven't, then you are pushing for your own eve."
"the clue was in the op post. if its not supposed to be an issue thread then fine, i'll ignore it but i suggest its best moved to somewhere else? jita park maybe."
"all i'm proposing is that faction warfare has issues, and all of them need to have a clear discussion and a clear response from what ccp sees and believes should be reviewed and focused on to eventually be fixed."
"lol jade, yes you're not biased... ok a closer examiantion of the op:1. needs to be looked at... does not make sense at all. if you wardec one corp within the militia you should fight them all.2. non-issue, live with it.3. same, is an issue for almost every alliance out there.4. should be looked, if we want fw to have continuity, pew pew for the sake of it won't last long, objetives & real impact & probably rewards are needed.5. not sure which the issue is...6. should be discussed.7. read 4.8. maybe, should be discussed.9. obvious.so yes, fw some of this stuff needs examination. i support the op."
"if you haven't figured it out yet, the csm reps have two priorities when pushing to have things worked on:1 their personal agendas concerning things that help them, as an individual not a corp or alliance member, get more for themselves out of eve.2 the agendas for their 'groups' playstyle at the expense of everyone else's.oh, yeah!10 listening to the concerns and issues of the eve userbase and bring those to the attention of ccp to have the situations examined for improvments.on that note:fw has some fatal flaws and needs immediate attention. most especially those damn nuub neutrals."
"while ccp should improve comunication overall, i think a lot of the 'confussion' comes from not knowing what's being done with the game and where are we heading.a lot of this concerns could be easilly fixed writing more devblogs and answers in the forums, but oficially updating the patch notes section including all the subsections: in testing, in development, etc. would also help a lot.just that."
"i endorse this post, btw."
"agreed - more communication with the player base, especially about game changes, is good. the lowsec capital thing didn't bug me so much as the fact that we found out about it after the fact."
"that's for darn sure!the 'in testing' and 'in development' sections haven't been touched in over a year, which is idiotic."
"ccp really needs to learn how to communicate with its player base. the dev blogs, game news, and pre patch notes are not enough. we should be able to look at the following:1 - what are they are working on?2 - what is the progress on the current projects?3  what is the estimated time of implementation"
"my number one issue.we don't know how bad anything else is until we know what else is on the horizon."
"doh!"
"edit, don't reply"
"something needs to change, but i don't honestly feel this is the right solution. i share all the ops frustrations about the lack of skill and the relative meaninglessness of the trainable skills. probing/scanning is the suck right now and could really use an overhaul."
"ok, here is something in between current system and op's idea:an option to transfer directional scanner info angle and range,even shiptype to the probe, so you 'tell' the probe where to look. ofc the less space the probe has to scan the faster you get a result.with this system there would be only one type of probe directional probe or whateverie: your target is 2au from a planet, and you manage to guess the distance and got it at 15 degree angle, then you run the probe and in less than 30 secs you have the result.sounds reasonable?"
"i think this would really only work against a mission runner or explorer, who has to stay in one spot for a while to do what they're doing. any smart combat target is going to warp around and completely defeat this system.probe should work like a radar or sonar screen. every \"ping\" going out would light up its area of effect for you and show you \"blips\" within it. the strength of the \"blip\" should be effected by the sig radius of the object, and whether it's moving or not.the operator skill would come in trying to figure out whether what they were looking at was a ship, a piece of space junk, or an rock in space. \"safe spots\" would no longer be safe. you'll stand out like a sore thumb. better to hide near an encounter, a bunch of abandoned drones, an old inactive pos, or something else in space that could confuse the guy who is looking for you."
"damps do not have the range that falcons do. falcons would be the primary target for a damp based ship. hence... no role there. any damp ship at \"fleet ranges\" which i am assuming is 125km + since you gave no amplification would be popped quickly since it's ewar range is well within sniper range. no role there either. your statement lacks merit."
"this seems like the sort of idea that is best implemented with an overhaul of station containers, not an explicit \"division\" system. i agree in principle, but i think this is the wrong means to your end."
"it would be a case of either or of course.i wouldn't mind which either as long as the station vaults/warehouses could be accessed remotely and contents manipulated as if they were in on a hangar floor."
"that's pretty much what i meant by an overhaul - make containers available in secure and insecure varieties bothsame sizes, but insecure being cheaper, and make them accessible remotely for contracting and the like. it's how they should work, and it'd eliminate the need for divisions."
"alright... so when you buy something, or when you have something lying about...you can either open the fitting screen, and drag the item into the proper slot.or you can click the item itself and simply say \"fit to active ship\".however... why don't items come online if you use the second option? why do i have to choose that option, and then open the fitting screen to bring them online?some people say \"open the fitting screen, and then select the option\" which is no better than drag-n-drop to begin with.point being... why have the option on the menu if it's so freakin' useless?"
"huh wierd? they always come online for me, when i use the \"fit to active ship\" selection. sometimes on really laggy days it takes some time, but it still happens."
"if this is the case, it needs to be fixed."
"actually, if you open the fitting screen first then right click -> fit to active ship it fits it and onlines it. it is only if you do not have the fitting window open that it does not online it for you. i dont know if this is a glitch or serves a purpose."
"that's actually exactly what he's complaining about."
"precisely...if i have to open the fitting screen, and then select the item, i may as well just drag and drop the item while i'm at it.if i simply want to select an item from the hanger, or maybe even several items ctrl click and \"fit to active ship\"... why do i then have to open fitting and turn them all on?"
"i do have this probelm as well, though, not all the time i will admitit can get irritating when your in a rush to join a fleet that is going to ditch you in 1 minute, your like \"finally, i can get out of here\" you undock, and see none of your modules active"
"not the place for reporting glitches but still an annoying issue. i think the problem is the database trying to keep up with all the players changing their ships at once. it is bound to skip a line of code every now and then. sometimes i even have to manually online mods i drag and drop."
"this actually remembers me of an idea that i used to have when there was that bookmark/insta problem.and well, it was about exactly that. would be fun if they read my idea and tested it, hehehe.altough, probaly not. but still, it would be fun."
"this is just one of the old redundant skills from before wt0 ccp should remove to avoid unwanted behavior.it's just plain wrong experimental code/configuration gets released in production."
"it's far from redundant. if you read the skill description, it's not restricted from use on items other than gates."
"yeah, but neither is wtz."
"i agree with you, but what i read from the skill is that it would allow you to decrease the distance from the object to which you are warping.as it is, if you warp to zero on a gate, you're immediately within range to warp out, only really susceptible to smartbombs. if you warp to zero on a jetcan, you're not within range to open it, and need to either 'approach' or 'orbit' at 500 to do so.what i'm asking for is to allow the skill, so that we can lessen the gap, and improve the abilities of the skilled pilot."
"my assumption has always been that wtz put you as close to the object as the game engine would allow. if it's possible to get closer than the current ~2500m, then i'd think it should be put into wtz, and not require a skill at all. i agree, warping to a can and then having to fly to it is annoying, but this seems like a problem that should have a direct fix, not a skill."
"this is just something i was thinking of. i am not saying they should hurry up and rush out tech iii anything. modular fittingsnow wouldn't it be nifty if you could have some modular bays on your ship you could change while in flight. maybe i should explain this a little further. i think it when they eventually come out with tech iii ships if they were equipped with what i call modular fittings rather than giving them more fitting slots or more resists. what these fittings would do is allow you to load a fitting with two modules and switch them at certain times. this could require that the module be off lined first or maybe just make it require the 95% cap and let you switch all modules at once at a 90% cap penalty. lets take a tech 3 coercer for an example. lets say 4 of the 8 high slots are modular along with one modular mid and two modular lows. you could fit the 8 highs with lasers and the 4 unused modular slots with salvagers. you could fit the modular mid with an ab and a mwd and the modular lows with heat sinks and overdrives. so after you get done blowing up whatever it is you like to shoot you could let your cap build up and switch to salvage mode which would switch 4 of the lasers for salvagers switch the ab for the mwd and the heat sinks for the overdrives. obviously there would be issues on this and a lot of balancing but it seems like a neat idea to me. any thoughts would be welcome."
"i'm not convinced tech 3 is a good idea, but if they do it, this would certainly be an interesting way of going about it. that said, this is not a petition, and as such it should not be in the assembly hall. this belongs in features + ideas."
"sorry i thought this was the right place to post ideas. if a mod would move this for me i would be grateful."
"assembly hall is for ideas you want the csm to bring up and ccp to implement. that's a pretty open category, but there are limits. this thread seems like more of a \"wouldn't it be cool if they did x at some point in the future\", which is too non-specific for this board imo. your mileage may vary, but that's my two cents. i've reported your post, so hopefully a gm will see it and move it shortly."
"moved to features & ideas."
"my thanks to both of you. now that this is in the right forum does anyone have any thoughts or anything to add to this idea?"
"as for the actual merits of the idea, i'm just trying to think of how i would use it. the most obvious starting point is ships with two fits. i fit my hauler with a capacity fit and a speed/agility fit, and use my cargo hold and a station for \"modularity\". having the option to switch back and forth would be a convenience, but nothing special. similarly, a lot of missions exist where you'd love to be able to jump back and forth between railguns and blasters, or switch out a hardener. it would be a huge, huge convenience to be able to do this, and would probably speed up the killing phase of missioning at least 20% for most ships. in pvp, the options get even stranger - dumping your sensor boosters for tackling gear once you've got a lock, dumping your damage mods for stabs if things go pear-shapeddepending on how it's implemented, swapping out the damage fit for a logistics fit, putting a salvager in slot 9 for once the fighting is over, swapping your mwd for a ab if hit by a scram post nano nerf, and so on. in order for this to work, i think you need two stipulations. firstly, a modular slot uses the higher fitting value of its installed items - if you have a cloak for 60 cpu and a gun for 4000 pg, the modular slot will use 4000 pg and 60 cpu. this is to prevent illegal fits from happening in mid-flight. secondly, any penalties for having a module activecloak, stab, mwd have to be applied even if they're the alternate module in a modular slot. of course, you could still offline them, but then you'd have to both swap and online to get them to usability. i really don't know what i'd do with these after a bit more consideration - it'd depend a lot on the ships that flew them, the costs for swapping, and just how much of an evil genius i could make myself. but i'm quite sure it'd be fun to see what people did with this."
"i've posted a similar suggestion - sadly i should have searched but on these forums, meh!anyway read the thread see what you thinkpersonal hangar division thread"
"yes i would see this mod be possible on this ship class also, as ccp ,quote ''black ops supposed to be valuable for their role, logistics and tactical flexibility - not as straight combat 1v1 ships etc.'' see them more as logistic then 1 vs 1 pvp this cov ops cloak would fit in perfectly."
"i would be willing to throw out every other idea if it could only use the covert ops cloak.meh"
"agreed...sorry"
"supported for many reasons.1 fw is supposed to be a stepping stone towards 0.0 operations for people fresh to pvp. keeping the alliances out doesn't make sense given that this is the goal. what you want is joint fleets with alliance members and non-alliance members so that the alliances can see first hand whether a pilot or corporation is skilled enough to join them player skill wise not skill points wise2 the stated rp reason for the empires keeping the alliances out of fw doesn't make sense either, do you really think that, for example, the amaar empire would say no to a large group of veteran pilots cva who turn up and say \"we want to fight to help protect your interests\" simply because they happen to be in a 0.0 alliance? from a purely rp perspective it would be like them turning round and saying that the ammatar mandate can't fight alongside them."
"this message is more to the csm than it is to the players but everyone should have a say in this soo . . .problem: the csm forums is becoming cluttered with requests for ship modifications and the csm is stuck choosing which modifications to bring forward. almost all the ships are represented here in some way shape or form either by name or class. reccomendation a: merge simmiler modification requests. i.e. ship a pg increse request goes with ship b pg increase. this will alow more ships to be brought before ccp and then allow ccp to determin the exact ships and by what amounts their attributes should be shifted.reccomendation b:merge modification requests by ship class or by ship role. i.e. all cruiser requests or all t2 ew class requests. this will alow more ships to be brought before ccp and then allow ccp to determin the exact ships and by what amounts their attributes should be shifted.reccomendation c:slit the current assembly hall into sub topics. i.e. ship reccomendations, weapon recomendations. pvp, mining, etc. this will clean up the csm forums and allow players to argue their cases without geting hidden under other ideas.while looking over the forums i have seen several good ideas get pushed away by constant arguing over ships and weapons. all i am requesting is a condensing of one of the most popular topics on the forums. i want to see the gameplay ideas, stuff that really affects me if implimented, not arguments over ships i cant fly let alone will probably never fly.p.s. if you dont like my idea or think it is stupid please feel free to let it fall by the wayside like so many others have done. i will not bring this topic up again like the few who cant realize that they are the only ones who think about whatever they are posting."
"i have a similar thought. only that i don't really think that the csm should take a heavy position on ship balancing due to... well, the heavy prevelance of whining"
"what the op describes is real. but it<U+FFFD>s up to the reasonable players to deal with people with bad habits in the game."
"but the word \"nano***s\" seems to be history.^^"
"i support your goal of making the game more fun for newcomers. the game is boring at the beginning. however, newb only zones might not be the best method. i think the problem is not that newbs can't compete, eventually they can when they finally understand some of the complexities of eve, it is just that there is not a whole lot of satisfaction when starting the game."
"i frankly agree.and it certainly seemed to speed up the process that the csm did something."
"re: capitals from high sec.interesting that you think this action by ccp affected many players on eve. perspective is what is required in such circumstances...for instance, your 'outcry' is actually;400/245,000 x 100 = 0.16% of playersi'd say that a response, by ccp, within the day of the change, shows that they both watch the forums and take note of player responses. above that, they can admit when errors have been made. i'm not sure how you think the csm could have dealt with this situation; the time between meetings and ccp --> csm interaction is designed imo to stop just such over reactions taking up too much csm time.take care,arithron"
"the thing is, 245000 is the wrong number to be using. what is the biggest number of unique respondents on any thread in the history of the eve forums? let's say 5000. for the assembly hall, it's 2500 or sothe vote threads about the nano nerf, if you pair them together. 400 is 8% of the forums baseline, and 16% of the assembly hall baseline, and that's in the first few hours. assuming the eve forum community is representative of the eve community as a whole, that means that a huge proportion of the community thought this decision was a bad one as soon as they heard about it. it's like the old maxim in customer service - if you get one letter, that means 40-500, depending on who you ask people feel the same way, but were too lazy to tell you. look at the size of the thread proportional to the size of the forums - most of the user base wouldn't post if they made subscription fees $1000 a month and sent a man around to your house to kick you in the balls."
"and i'm glad that they did, it does help restore faith in the fact that ccp are listening to what we have to say. they may not agree with what we say, but at least they're listening.admittedly the reaction on the forums did get very ott with the threads going from a calm \"can we have an official response as to why the changes were taking place\" to a bipartisan \"give him back the veldnaught or our eleventy million accounts will be quitting / tough cookies, chribba\", in truth i didn't care whether the caps were moved back or not, i supported this issue on the principle that i wanted an answer from ccp as to why they had been moved in the first place.and to put your figures into context, it was 400 supports, in 12 hours when gm grimmi posted the clarification, currently 500 in 24 hours because people haven't gotten the message that the issue is resolved though there are side issues which still niggle like rule #3. the only threads larger in the assembly hall were the two nano vote threads if my memory is right with 1500 supports in the anti-nerf thread in 32 days.if the issue hadn't been resolved when it was you'd likely have seen a steady rise in the amount of support that the issue gained so by the 32 day mark you'd be looking at approximately 12000 support votes if the rate of supporting posts stayed steady it likely wouldn't have, you'd be more likely to see a logartyhmic decrease in the number of new supports per dayhowever, arguements concerning statistics aside as the old saying goes, you can make statistics say whatever you want them to say hopefully this incident will lead to the positive step of more ccp interaction with the general playerbase if only to tell us that we're on completely the wrong track with our speculations.and on that note, hopefully we can get this thread back to it's original purpose which was to figure out how to improve the functionality of the csm. i'm of the belief that a certain amount of leeway must be allowable within the csm process otherwise the process just gets bogged down with red tape and arguements about procedures. you, on the other hand, appear to believe that certain rules are unbendable example, the 7 day rule. i doubt that we'll ever agree on this particular point so perhaps it's better if we both step back from it and look at other ways that the csm can be improved instead?"
"stats can certainly be changed to support any view...my point was, that even if there were 400 unique users posting on that thread, it still represented a very small part of the eve playerbase. i take the point that not all players use the forums- however, i can't agree that just 5000 from 245,000 use them! by not posting in a forum because they don't care/don't agree, players are overlooked in circumstances such as the cap ship affair.my opinion of the guidelines and rules that the csm should act within are not for the sake of being anal, nor to create red-tape. it's really that a council, which is continuous through time, needs to act within some rules in order for there to be consistency for the playerbase, and some sense of awareness of when/how/why the csm does what it does eg, issue adoption.the purpose of the 7-day rule is simple: issues need to be brought to the attention of the playerbase, discussed although this currently is what maybe doesn't happen that much, and then brought to the csm if supported. by ignoring this fundamental rule, which gives the playerbase an opportunity to express their views, the door is opened for numerous 'issues' to be brought to the table in a csm meeting without adequate discussion nor player input. who's to say that one alliance won't get a majority onto the csm at some future point...i'm of the opinion that many of the guidelines setout in the csm documents were to ensure consistency, fairness and a sense of control to the playerbase afterall, the csm is their tool for getting issues brought to the attention of ccp. currently, issues which don't affect the majority of eve players in some cases, a very small minority seem to get more attention than others. tweaks and bugs take up their fair amount of time too. issues are rarely discussed by some csm members on the forums or between csm members on channels/mailing lists etc.rules ensure smooth operation of a council. everyone knows where they stand. change the rules to suit the situation, and before long you get mistrust and a loss of credibility....which may be starting to sound familiar...take care,arithron"
"hear, hear!wait, what'd you call me?"
"i think the mechanics are fine as they are. salvaging and looting are 'trivial' activities, and people that want to make these things their 'end-game' are totally cool to do so; they will 'condemn' themselves to flying sub-par ships and will probably never leave the few level 4 mission hubs eve has got. i have no problem with that.i can't help but smile when i see a guy from 2006/2007 in a t1 frig decloaking for the 2-5m worth of loot/salvage i leave on my level 4 grinds.but then again, i usually don't loot/salvage myself as i don't think the gain is worth the effort when compared to bounties i can run another level 4 room in the same time it takes me to salvage one. so if a ninja hotshot in a t1 frig wants to clean up the mess i leave behind: be my guest...."
"i'll have to mention that to some of our hac pilots. i'm sure they're happy to hear about their 'sub par' ships. ninja salvagers to play against people, while mission runners like to play with themselves. i.e. npc drones do you seriously think that we're only looking for your salvage? you should read more.key word: grinds.ask any see: any ninja salvager how much his/her work is a grind, and you'll find the same response. we live to salvage carebear tears from those mission runners who like to run off at the mouth......and from those who think they're so far above everybody else, that they post on the forums about how it doesn't bother them.don't act so high and mighty. if you're running missions, you're playing eve offline."
"yeahsigned... when a t2 item is signifigantly worse than it's base t1 counterpart, much less the faction equivalents, then something is terribly out of whack.currently only ham rage can go further than it's t1 counterpart, all others go about half the range why in eve do javelin/precisions go only 1/2 as far as a t1 base version, that's just stupid!.explosion velocities need to be double the missile's flight velocity i.e. a 5km/s missile should have a 10km/s detonation. this will enable the few missiles that can hit nanophags to actually scratch their paint, if not much more than that.also:f.o.f. missiles and defenders are terribly flawed in so very many ways.defenders need to function across a fleet spread, allowing for the use of dedicated missile screening ships, and larger missiles need to be tougher requiring more defenders to destroy citedels, cruise, ect.fof, since they spread their fire around, need to do 25-50% more damage than their t1 counterparts, move considerably faster, and have very large/swift explosion radii. they also need descrimination, much as drones have now, to focus on large cruisers, bs, larger, medium dessies, frigates, fighters, and small drones via a drop-down on the stack in cargo making that the default behavior for the entire stack until changed."
"this thread needs more youtube:"
"aye. current pos sucks so i think this dead horse has earned another kick."
"from the empyrean age 1.1 patch notes:- changes have been made to the tabbed overview and bracket settings that allow for easy loading of pre-saved settings.looks like we can check this one off."
"signed."
"/signed"
"cov ops cloak?"
"against"
"+1 give us the choice.space is cold, space is dark, nebulas are awesome but stars are wonderfull.a simple quote/unquote in esc menu plz."
"bump for drone love"
"drones implants ftw!also: are you going to consider again salvage drones?"
"if i understand correctly the reason it is not already in place is that someone given the roles to do so could really mess up your orders. that being said, i would hope anyone who has been given the power to make a buy or sell order on behalf of the corp is trusted in the first place.trust = no need for the current rule.i would be fine with allowing my corp mates to change some of my orders and that would be something we would work out between ourselves."
"i love this idea. as pointed out, it will be a great thing for trading corporations and encourages working together as a group.supported."
"i suppose that was probably the reason, but anyone who has the power to make corp orders can screw you up badly already. who doesn't want to buy tritanium at 100 per unit? if you want security, have an limit on how much money each player with roles can play withsettable per-member by the ceo, but don't impede usability for a fairly small benefit to security."
"signed, for great justice."
"if this went through, wouldn't this mean that having a dread in high sec objectively confers an advantage in the field of mining?"
"oooooooooooo somebody's tired"
"two hours?you in 0.0 would be the guy trying to kill angels with a t1 fitted prophecy and taking 30 minutes to kill one bs spawn. its not exactly fair to compare you with the hardcore 0.0 ratters.top end mission runners earn about 25-30mil an hour, top end ratterssubcap, one acct, optimal setups while chaining, best regions earn about the same.so there is obviously something screwed with the risk vs reward here."
"...and this is relevant to me, how?for me to make that much isk/hr, i would need to spend a significant amount of time grinding a substantial sum of isk for a faction-fit gank-me ship, in addition to running a second account to loot and salvage. what is the point of that? the game then starts sounding more like a job.for that, i already have rl.i run missions because, sometimes, i enjoy running them. hell, usually i don't even loot my missions. some days i run l4's in a bs or l3's in a bc, other days i run l1's and l2's in my frigates and/or cruisers. some days, i take my mining ship and just float around in a belt for a while.the money i make from these activities even allows me to get blown-up, from time to time. imagine that."
"you dont need a faction fitted ship. t2 fitted marauader will do just fine, crystal sets also make missions much easier but do not make you any more lucrative to suicide gankers.and you're not really countering my point, which is the people that do grind l4s in highsec make far too much isk."
"people that grind anything, make alot of isk. your point is irrelevant.do you believe that moons should become depleted after a short period due to intensive exploitation?"
"yes please. would be great!"
"\"tired old argument\" that's so cute, i will try not to make the mistake of cluttering the issue with facts any more.but it must be clear, even to you, that because those 80% don't play the way you want is no reason to change their game enjoyment."
"way to miss the point, bison. those 80% might or might not be playing the game malcanis wants. that's not the point. the point is that none of us know how those 80% wants to play the game, so they are a non factor, and the argument is moot. i don't suppose that would ever enter your thick, rose-colored skull though."
"\"rose-colored skull\" good one max! lolbut seriously, i do not think that because we may not know how that 80% wants to play makes them a non-factor or the argument moot. i say this because it would appear that a \"vocal minority\" who post fervently in the forums would like to change how those other 80% want to play for no other benifit than their own.maybe that begins to explain my point better ..."
"i say that the reason those 80% are in high sec is because high sec pays too damn much isk with too little effort. that's one way of using that statistic, and it's pretty friggin' hard to disprove, not to say impossible. get the point?"
"sure, i think i get your point. you don't like them playing the game the way they choose because you think it's too easy. personally, i make much more isk being in 0.0 than i ever did in empire. more risk, sure ... but more reward."
"sigh, no you obviously don't get my point. i'm going to leave it at that as you obviously have trouble understanding easy arguments."
"more flesh. more thread maturitythe tankactive tanks don't exactly scale well. barring nighthawks etc, most ships can't do much more than active tank solo against another ship or two at their tier. many ships can't even do that. the move to cut off the damage curves of the largest damage dealers is probably the right one to get the required tank and ehp into sane limits.after looking at a lot of damage curves against simulated versions of the ship basically dictors with a mwd and turning the speed down it looks like pure speed tanking won't quite be enough. this might be the right class to implement the active stealth module ccp toyed around with in the past. dropping the sig down to a bc size of ~300m drastically changes damage curves vs. sniper bs's, and rules out an alpha-pop for all but the best of situations.for missile users, the stellar ab performance won't be reducing damage very much, so a sig radius decrease will hit anti-bs weaponry in a manner more in line with what turrets will experience.furthermore, since the fleet command links would require the ship to be staying in formation, if it has to go too fast to reduce bs exposure, it's just going to leave its own formation behind. sig radius decreases can get the desired values in line with what's needed for formation fighting.where is the right level? looking at an awesome marauder setup, the tank really isn't stellar once you start thinking of focus fire. even with a sig-reduction possibility and factoring in for implants, boosters, gang boosters, and command mods, the solo tanking won't really be all that stellar against another gang. however, as combat scales up, logistics used to support the ship can also scale up, so the sweet spot need not be set in the jovian realm.in all cases, the ship isn't supposed to be invincible, and the act of reducing incoming damage by 80% and possibly having logistics backup means the amount of hardware effectively tanked during that period will be astronomical for one ship.formation command linksdoesn't take a great deal of imagination to come up with new links for each race that match that race's particular combat style. throwing out some new concepts for links that might also be able to find a niche setting where they come in handy. would also contribute to each racial ship's individuality. won't comment on which race needs what.united frontships coordinate formation to minimize frontal area and reduce damage taken. uses fleet marshal heading and dot-product with turret/missile terminal vector to come up with a damage increase/decrease. running away is very bad. only effective when flying into the enemy.broadside fire controlincreases damage/tracking/rof when target location is perpendicular to your ship all turrets on one side can track the target and you're parallel to the fleet marshal. only effective when flying tangential to enemy.interception maneuversincrease to warp disruptor/scram range in the direction the fleet is heading. for chasing things down or getting points at range during onset of combat. gotta fly towards them.encircling attackattack from behind. bonus to damage for shooting them in the ass. =d also known as the nambla maneuver. entirely appropriate for the amarr navy.sure it's possible to come up with many, many more and then weed out the broken ones ;- a word on calculations: all of these calcs can be represented with vector dot-products, operations that are fairly simple. the values can be represented as an invisible stat of a ship. all ships have instantaneous headings, and if they have a fleet marshal, may have modifiers that are derived from those vectors.two flavorsfurther differentiate the starfleet and squadron hulls by the number of mods that can be fitted. think of command ships."
"not supporting because you called rp rubbish!"
"intended meaning was that my rough draft of the underlying story material was wholly inappropriate and that it would not suffice for those in the player base with more refined tastes in rp.is that some good pr bs? i'm practicing to run for president"
"i have been thinking of an interesting addition to our flight experience in eve. the idea is that you can carry a fellow pod-pilot as a passenger.why?business opportunity: bodyguard - i want a taxi ride perhaps through hostile territory and will pay an individual to deliver me safely. perhaps for the duration of the journey the pilot also adopts my war decsbusiness opportunity: co-pilot - i could pay for a passengers help on long haul flights. the ap could be set as i tend to other matters  the passenger is paid for his services in operating the mwd at gate approaches to speed up the journey.training support: what better way to help players learn than for them to sit in the cockpit and see how a more experienced pilot operates  seeing tactics, timing and use of modules etc. i could join a large 0.0 fleet and see the capital ships in action first hand regardless of my current skill set.future expansion: this idea could eventually be expanded so that the passenger can become actively involved in the performance of the ship a bit like a pos gunner. this could mean the ability to take control of drones  with the pilots permission, or use tractor beam and salvager while the pilot deals with the mission npcs."
"genius."
"yea why not : sounds nice"
"i love the idea of training. could be an excellent tool for every facet of eve."
"easiest thing for them to do will be to abandon fw and pretend like it doesn't exist, and they will. if ccp isn't going to support it, no reason they should either.my prediction, though, is that it's going to backfire on the wise-guys if ccp doesn't fix it. as soon as pirate corps and goon alts catch onto how easy it is to grief fw fleets with this little tactic, the real fun will start, and you may see the very same people who are supporting it now crying for their mommy."
"if they drop out then they were never really dedicated to the cause anyway. if they can't organize themselves enough to combat a common foe, thats their problem. if you don't think pirates and other assorted \"bad people\" haven't noticed then you are mistaken. generally fw people are not worth their time. t1 ships and fittings have a poor profit margin if you need ccp to help shield you by changing game mechanics because you cannot organize a defense, perhaps hello kitty online is more your cup of tea."
"the irony is of course that its mostly goon-alts currently complaining about being wardecced in caldari militia corps in all these threads. but then i imagine you already knew that didn't you?"
"getting tiresome... yes i'm an alt too...just play the damn game people..."
"speaking as someone who joined the fw as an individual and not as part of a player corp..i can truly say i did it because it was cool.until i saw the lengths of which people will go to exploit the mechanics.it cant be helped..even amongst well respected corps i have flown with in the past..i saw all sorts of exploitation..purposefull exploits of lag outside war decking you name it..but i saw it from the perspective everyone seems to be overlooking..the individual player.btw that character has been deleted..so dont harp on me for not posting with it lol."
"wow... the chair is making wide assumption now... that's a big broad brush you're painting people with. reason #34 as to why you're a horrible csm. maybe you're just anti-goon, is that the real reason behind your tactics? ahhh, the voice for all of eve does have a personal agenda. you're bringing in personal feelings about alliances, corps, players, and alts to a board where you have failed to be open minded and represent all of eve.golly."
"this is kind of a non issue because it embodies the very essence of eve. it's players that are side stepping what was intended. when in truth it was intended all along. eve is a game designed to give creative players the freedom to be creative. why shouldn't a corp or alliance that believes in the cause of fw or wants to hurt another fw militia not be allowed to wardec whomever they want. will destroying that 1 corp somehow harm the entire militia and make it ineffective? unless the large majority of fw corps become wardec'd by third party corps and alliances to the point that joining the fw as a corp just makes you a big target for a wardec based solely on that fact it remains a non issue. this is eve no one is safe.... high sec is really just 'safer' sec and low sec is all about who can tank the gate guns to gank you.edit: fixed safe sec to safer sec course it should be suicide gank sec but ya know :p"
"well it seems to me that if you are realy interested excited passionate about fw and simply dont want to get caught up in the politics,war decs etc. join as an individual directly into the militia...its that simple imho."
"looks like a good effort to make 0.0 more interesting"
"sounds somewhat reasonable with fast read thru.i'm most excited about \"small gang harassment targets\" and was browsing for thread to support that would mention it. it opens smaller gangs options to screw up their enemies isk making nicely. structure resists can be used to balance it so that it's relatively easy to repair those said structures moon mining, labs but not as easy to shoot them down. some over-streched alliances will prolly say it's a nerf but i see it that the logistical stuff would most likely promote and require alliances/corps to look after their stuff better concentrate on one area. maybe even opening some space for smaller entities to work for.i don't really want to comment much on the sov mechanic change as long as it doesn't shorten siege times for systems, it will probably be fine. it should take several days to capture a system - having sov ping pong wouldn't be too fun for anyone.if brought up separately, i'd fully support the small gang harrasment option even if the sov mechanic wouldn't change at once. maybe put resists/hp in line with like 10 bs shooting for 20min for moon miner etc.edit: ddd could exist in the future in my mind if it would be changed to suit current titan numbers. say make it fire more often, but half the \"dps\" f.ex. every 15min, 1/8th of current damage and shorten its range. titan could still help you in fleet fights, but not necessarily one-click-win them. they would be more vulnerable and the biggest problem would be if enemy brings 10 titans to the grid."
"err... for those last few posts... it has been fixed. veldnaught is back where it belongs. one question remains; what about the other empire based caps?"
"amarr - chribba and the veldnaught are one of the things in eve you have to see, like the eve gate and all the other sites. i conviced my friend tom to play the game for a few months by showing him the veldnaught and going *thats a dreadnaught, and that nice man chribba does a lot for the community too*seriously. why take it away?edit: oh its been fixed. geekrage averted."
"does this mean all dreads can come back to highsec?two questions.1 is this dread in the system \"amarr\" or in the \"amarr region\"?2 what system is the eve gate in?"
"bring back the silent giants! they did no harm!"
"arkonor and bistot in 0.0 is great. it is like mining crack."
"is support this and suggest that collision detection be removed from drones, since this would also reduce the problem of \"drone bumping\" which can result in drones preventing ships from aligning in combat its really stupid that drones could bump a battleship off course"
"there is no rational reason for a member of, say, the caldari navy to haul their buttocks to tcf space in order to pay tcf members to hunt down npc pirates who are operating in tcf space. there is a reason for angel cartel to 'hire' players to pursue cartel interests in/near cartel space. this is why there are no agents in tcf space, but there are in cartel space. the cartel 'pays' for missions run on it's behalf; why shouldn't tcf pay for missions run on it's behalf, assuming such a thing were implemented?again, if you want to do missions in nullsec, they are already there, and are known as exploration content. the complexes you can find there are pretty much like missions, but are generally much more rewarding. and if you aren't happy with that answer, high-sec or low-sec can meet your agent needs.besides, how could you possibly claim with a straight face that 60m per month is a 'balanced' amount to pay in exchange for a private l4 agent that only your alliance and its friends can use?!"
"lol righttau ceti want more missions hehehe"
"large sums of cash aren't a \"rational reason\"? or perhaps the idea of striking at the pirates where they live, instead of just cutting them off whenever they invade. tcf presumably does pay for missions run on its behalf - i assume they have cheap/free fleet combat ships and capital ships for members, like most other alliances.complexes are great if you can find them, but doing so is incredibly inconvenient. you want to work for a bigger profit you can, if you don't then do missions. and he did not claim that 60m a month is balanced, he claimed he \"pulled it out of his ass\"."
"now see, you just didn't think about this at all did you?you say in order to allow a newbie to play with his friend who is more experienced ccp should implement 0.0 agents..so, what you are saying is that the newbie with no experience needs to be able to go to where the experienced player is, to play with him?..i'll give you a minute to let it soak in...done?how about:not changing the game and let the experienced player who knows the ropes just head up to empire to do some missions with his newbie friend?durrrrrrrrrrrredit: as i read on i noticed people already responded to it, and to that response.i would like to say that i actually have 3 rl friends that play eve aswell, and ive never actually been in the same system as any of em. mostly cuz they're still in empire and im in deep 0.0 but that doesn't mean i can't convo them ingame and give them pointers etc and chat about eve in general.tbh, i would get bored awefully fast doing lvl1 missions, even if it was with a friend.. once you've done lvl4's and 0.0 it just isnt fun anymore, no matter who you do it with.the same is true btw for dragging em out to 0.0 fresh from the shelves, you'll just scare them."
"had an idea. it should be possible to give your outpost to npc's and then they would allow everyone to dock in there like normal npc station and would have agents in there."
"this, as long as it's your station you assign the missions and you pay the rewards.no inhouse isk tap for you!"
"i like this idea, provided agents are tied to allaince standings with various factions. this would add and interesting interaction between alliance and npc empires."
"l1 and l2 missions would be great for training newbies which is why i supported this. i was in 0.0 my first week of playing eve and i greatly enjoyed it. the only problem is learning to rat and such was difficult. yes for newbies you can take them around and pop the bs rats in the belt and such to let them finish off the small fry but if they ever want to do something when you aren't on they are stuck. a lot of times we do take newbies back to empire for a bit for training but if there were a way to spawn some small poor rats reliably for training it would be very helpful. keep in mind that many complexes take scanning which is another thing many newbies can't do. if you wanted to sprinkle some .1 or .2 static complexes in 0.0 it would solve the same issue."
"a newbie is not tied down anywhere. they have no assets. a vet, on the other hand, is tied down. they have responsibilities, rigged ships, hangars, the works. thus, the vet should stay still and the newbie should move. and i didn't say that you had to be in the same system, i said that some people would want to be. a well-made game lets people, in large part, do what they want. you want to play with your friends - have a buddy nearby to bail you out the first time you do worlds collide, say - then the game should let you without making anybody do backflips. the newbie should not have to sit on his hands for a month, and the vet should not have to abandon his corporation."
"well, it was in a hauleri scouted the damn gate with an alt right before though.yes you are right, any decent combat ship would have survived... hell i survived a 15man t2 0.4 gatecamp in a travel fitted drake by just turning on mwd and reapproaching gate while they were locking me and trying to get through my shield got me down to about 30% before i could jump out.my biggest concern though isn't that a broadsword or similar ship could kill a hauler on a 0.4 gate.. the biggest concern i have is that sometimes haulers need to go into 0.4 for stuff like agent missions etc.now if only battleships etc were able to solo camp 0.4 gates a hauler could probably make it out, which would make it more fair in my opinion.personally, i used to do missions in gelfiven borders 2 0.4 systems untill new ships and probing patches came up and pirates started camping those 2 0.4 systems excessively and probing out missioners in those systems.i spent about an hour looking for a good lvl4 agent in empire that won't send you to 0.4 or below systems, and found one good agent with 0.5 or above systems in all directions for 4 jumps. just one. missioning in empire just isn't fun anymore because of the constant fear of pirates/probers."
"bunch of people who don't know what they are talking about,have you seen the setups we need to tank sentrys, if anyone comes in a pvp fit we die, luckily hardly anyone ever fights back."
"yea! let's nerf em all !"
"then you scouted badly and its still your own fault for getting killed.you admit that and decently fit combat ship would have survived the engagement, yet still think that you should be able to waltz on through in a none combat ship with near impunity.really sentry dps is right on the mark in my opinion. it discourages solo gate camping whilst still being viable and it gives certain tactical advantages to an attacking side: less drones, no frigate hulls, limited use of cruiser hulls, lack of shield buffer on armour tankers, lower cap from tanking, less cap charges, less gank the list goes on..."
"i'll support this, even tho its been 3 years since i've been ganked at a gate."
"you can fit rigs on shuttles.they're called frigates & interceptors. my little atron is faster than a shuttle, can mw too, is not much more expensive, and carries ten times as much. i could be silly and stick a rig on too i suppose.it would be cool if they did add either a shuttles skill or a t2 shuttle, just for kicks.how about a shuttle with a jump drive? shuttle itself makes up 1/2% of the ship all the rest is all engine. i think that falls in line with what ever you are smoking."
"great way for people to waste isks."
"i think super caps should have to burn fuel, like pos's. the provide pos/outpost like services, so they should burn some fuel. this might also reduce the huge build up of titans. i think cost should be around 2 billion per month to maintain, mostly in isotopes and strontium"
"only if the titan can provide a pos bubble and jump bridge pos guns in with it."
"agreed! *bangs on table*we, the multitudinous horde who also vote for things like csm's of high sec carebears are 80% of the population and we are forced to live in 20% of the space!this is not equitable! i can yell too.its getting kind of hard to care for our pelts due to the lack of space, you know, grooming?low sec is, by the admission of the people who currently live there, underused and undervalued!solution!remove low sec in its current form, make space either empire no change, npc 0.0 no change, conquerable npc 0.0, and player 0.0 you keep what you can kill.thats right folks, conquerable npc 0.0, which would be what is currently called low sec.make the systems conquerable through faction warfare only! putting up pos in such conquered systems can only be done by corps which are part of the owning faction militia if they leave the militia the pos goes offline at the next dt and such pos do not require charters. systems that are conquered get gate guns from the owning faction over a period of time.stations in such systems have no docking fee for people in the same factions milita. neutrals using such stations get a fairly large docking bill isk sink. opfors cannot dock in a conquered system, but if the system becomes contested then they can again dock. allow moon mining etc under the above conditions, this gives fw corps incentive to both defend, capture, fight for and develop space.if all neighbouring systems are either that faction empire or also conquered by that faction, then that system is no longer frontline and concord moves in to police it, at say 0.4 response times but actually spawning at incidents. should the system become frontline again however, concord withdraws from that system.as systems are captured more would become quasi high sec, the appearance of concord even with the slowed response time, means high sec carebears would move into the new space and utilise it, providing external logistics to the fw corps.agents in the stations become militia agents while it is under the sway of a faction militia. if it is contested then they remain/revert to what they currently are. this means if you want to run missions in those conquered systems you have to be part of the militia. militias get lp stores in their own conquered stations, kills on opposing militia giving lp's.rats would be as normal in contested militia space, and would be of the pirate faction opposed to the owning militia in conquered militia space. killing such rats in conquered space should give a positive to militia standings, not sec status and lp's for use in militia stores.attacks on militia members should give a negative to standings with that militia and a bonus to its opposing milita standings possibly to the opposing factions pirates too, too much negative and you become a target of that militia as sec status does for concord. this to avoid issues with non militia corps deccing militia corps, eventually the whole militia can shoot the deccing corpi believe this would give a point to militia warfare, improve the utilisation of what is currently low sec and provide a lot more warfare/industry opportunities.an island of high sec, surrounded by warring militias and pirates both npc and player which is itself surrounded by pilot alliances who have gone beyond the eye of empire factions.*dons flame proof suit*hey its an idea, i thought it out while i was making the post, discuss it, rip it to shreds, come up with other ideas, naybe we'll get a gestalt idea to present to the csm?"
"the title of this thread may be deemed . . . erm . . . offensive . . . due to certain historical . . . considerations . . .just a heads up . . ."
"nvm, please delete this, forum just ****ed up"
"not supported bcos of point 7. without that might even sign this."
"agreed agreed yes and no. removing all loot means creating a dynamic in the game that is directly oppose to mission runners and no one else. removing all basic tech 1 loot drops from any source would be preferable since you can loot farm in complexes far better than you can in missions. agreed. super agreed!!! i dont really agree with this but only because i feel its unnecessary and will still be abused. there are certain area's where a large number of lvl 4 agents are gathered together in close proximity so the population would move to these area's and spread out the quality difference and still drive down the total server performance. not going to say no to this either just don't really care.agreed with your view of how lvl 4's should be managed in high sec rather than removed all together. agreed.oh and thanks for qualifying your position rather than getting on the forum and trying to brow beat people into submission on a topic your clearly biased on. if you know who i am talking about."
"everything malcanis has in this post even the stuff i snipped for brevity i completely support and totally agree with.it'll make the game more role-play as well and if these changes were to come about i'd actually pull the dust cover off my mission bb.not because i'd make more isk - because it would be fun.oh - to clarify i think missions should be extremely variable within the expected range for a mission of that level. in other words, some might turn out to be a cakewalk and others literally impossible even for the best mission runner to try without friends of the same caliber. meaning other frigate/dd pilots for l1s or more bb or bb support vessels in l4s.this should not be known by the agent or the runner in advance. yes - sometimes you should have to warp out going 'ow - i can't do this alone!'. intelligence is always an inexact thing i used to be in usaf intel when i was in the service and misintel by the agent both up and down should play a big part in missions."
"yes it needs looked into.it takes a massive amount of mining to complete them and their payout is much less than simply selling the ore would have been. they at least need to pay you base price of the minerals it would refine to. also mining agents give a startling number of kill missions for a probable barge pilot."
"or how about this.dont use the enter key on the number pad. that way you and your stubby fingers wont keep screwing up."
"up to now there was noone \"against\" bringing this buglist to ccps attention... so who from csm will do it? and when? i propose next csm - ccp meeting!?regards, eve g."
"you might like to go and review the lastest patch notes for the upcoming expansion! bugs are fixed when reported, by the look of it. maybe the csm can now spend time on other issues instead of bug fix requests and tweaks etctake care,arithron"
"while i don't agree that all of the suggested areas are actual problems, i do agree that fw needs a look at and all of your issues merit real and impartial discussion."
"i disagree with this. currently, all corps within your faction are able to counter war dec. if you cannot convince anyone to do so, perhaps you need to work on your diplomacy. having just left fw, i have to say... there were corps that were on my side i would just as soon shot at myself. don't ask people to fight your conflicts for you. fw is supposed to be an introduction to 0.0 pvp with training wheels. asking the devs to change game mechanics because you can't coordinate a defense for yourself is rather silly. there are other points in there i could support... but i won't support this thread because of this one point."
"militia members can't wardec these corps, not all people inside fw is in a corp. also is more fun for all, more targets."
"everything needs to be taken through the grinder again... examined with a fine toothed comb... support."
"while i'm sure many of these suggestion have be brought up now and then i thought it would be good to bring these ideas to the table and ask for additional suggestions where conceptually fleet mechanics can be optimised to keep blob warfare playable.1.gun grouping.players should have the option of linking all the same gun/launcher types into one group.this group would in effect merge all the guns in to 1 group button on the ui and for the purpose of the server calculation be worked out as 1 gun with a damage multiplier based on how many guns are in the group.this i believe would reduce considerably the amount of information packets being set between the server and clients regarding gun activations, reloading, overheating etc.the additional benefit of this would be that grouped guns would all change there ammo at the same time so long as there are enough charges to fill the entire rack.2.remove collision detection between fleet ships.over a certain number of ships on grid/in fleet the server switches over and discards calculation and modelling of the collision physics. this would need to occur only between ships within the fleet itself and not interaction between hostile ships. mainly because bumpage is a effective mechanic to prevent caps/supcaps from getting to safety of they are caught outside shields or are trying to warp away.i also think at a certain point drone/fighter blobs should also be disregarding for collision detection in order to free up resources for more important information/calcs.3.group fighters and drones.im a bit unsure about this idea because while there would be massive benefit regarding reduction of all the information from a swarm of fights. i can see a lot of issues with what happens when they take damage, or a targeted.i guess the server needs to be able to group fighter damage from a fighter/drone wing, possibly group them into a formation in order to reduce positional/flight information, and treat them separately when being targeted or damaged.4.watch list prioritisation.only ships with remote logistics should be prioritised for watch list updates. any time the servers load starts getting heavy then watch-list updates slow or stop for those not prioritised. in saying that i also feel that there should be ships automatically flagged as important which don't stop getting updated, those being super caps. i think its still important to know the status of friendly titans/moms especially if your trying to fight off the attackers.5.doomsday killmails.its been my experience that when a successful doomsday goes off the node is pretty much dead for the next 20-30 minutes as all the kill mails get generated.killmails need to be dealt with on a separate server from the node server. perhaps all ships and there fittings need to be dumped onto a separate server, all kills dumped there as well and left to develop all the kill mails away from the main action where post dd combat is trying to take place. if need be lock all the wreaks until the server is able to update them with what survived.the kill mails themselves don't need to be instantly available to the pilots and can be trickled back into the character sheets over a period of time."
"this/signed"
"come on"
"a very excellent post was made here.here's the idea:i personally think that it's a very neat idea and it seems to address some of the biggest flaws in the current design.my suggestion is that we propose this to ccp as a way for which the csm document should recommend the next csm to do. not to say they can't have a weekly meeting, but a meeting in a chat is not quite as efficient as the proposed idea."
"obviously supported, my reasons are in the op"
"gotta give a bit of support!"
"more efficient = okbtw csm always create such a forum by themselves if they desire."
"we haven't created one ourselves for transparency and continuity reasons."
"i'd personally be against making suggestions that the next csm has to adhere to! just because this current csm has had some issues with meetings/discussions and suchlike, it doesn't follow that the next csm will!the problems with a forum are:1. csm members actually have to read and post replies ie, care about the process2. how does such a process stop ill-feeling and encourage co-operation and development within the csm? 3. you are likely to see camps forming on issues, especially if they are not thought through before being posted etc ie, poor issues. there's nothing wrong with different opinions, mind you...however, issues that are vague or too-encompassing eg, 0.0 sov fixing end up with pointless debate with neither side shifting since there is an ill-defined 'problem' or both sides can't agree what the problem actually is.4. how is having a forum for 9 players to discuss issues etc any different than a forum for any player 245,000 to post and discuss issues ie, the assembly hall? it's still forum discussing, giving no sense of 'togetherness' or identity to a csm. 5. the csm would be suddenly apart from the playerbase since there'd be no need to post etc on assembly hall or jita park and this detachment could be harmful to the original aims of having a csm in the first place. to me, the problems with the current csm aren't traceable to not having forums to discuss things in- its due to some members of the csm failing to discuss things at all!meetings are essential, imo. csm canadidates all knew what would be required late nights for meetings, discussion via forums with players, putting together documents for submission etc. the perk of the job, afterall, is an expenses paid trip to iceland using money ultimately derived from players via subscriptions/merchandise etc. this responsibility to the players to act on behalf of players shouldn't be something that is 'made easier because i don't like a 4 hr meeting every 2 weeks' or the like. the current system would work if the csm made it work, had clear guidelines and expectations and stuck to them and everyone pulled their weight and contributed in all areas that such a position requires. its all to easy to look for reasons to justify why one couldn't do something; the much harder path is to front up and work with whats available to do what is required and what one was elected to do.take care,arithronp.s. for these reasons, not supported!"
"i raised this idea weeks ago.if the next csm doesn't have time zone problems at least as bad as the current csm, i'll eat my hat. you are not going to get nine europeans or nine americans, there will be a mix of those two at best. at worst, you'll get a russian, an australian, and a hawaiian just to make things really nasty. with the exception of oz, this was a good csm for time zones. also, given how much better the proposed meeting structure is than the status quo, i don't think anybody on the new csm will have trouble living with it. i expect a large proportion of the membership to be existing csmers, since re-election is allowed, so if this gets passed then you've probably got majority support right there. 1 if they don't care, no format will save the csm. 2 given time to actually discuss things in depth, you might get people understanding each other instead of caricaturing. there are limits in all thingsjade and darius, but i think it'd help. 3 you're describing the status quo. 4 you don't see the difference between 9 people, elected for having a vision and the ability to express it, and 245,000 people who mostly don't and wouldn't care to? forums always get better as the number of stupid people and incomprehensible posts goes down, and a forum for 9 elected people seems near-optimal for that. 5 it would be publicly readable and, ideally, on the eve forums. that's better than can be said of the current chatlogs."
"i did recall that someone else had raised something like that, some time ago. i just couldn't find it.would you mind linking your post so that we can include it? thanks."
"you don't see the difference between 9 people, elected for having a vision and the ability to express it, and 245,000 people who mostly don't and wouldn't care to?this statement, of course, assumes that the people elected did have the vision and the ability to express it! this would have, of course, made some of them attractive to alliances that supported them...i would also question the 'express it' part! some of them do, some don't do much at all in public but front at meetings...take care,arithron"
"it was in my reply to the last csm meeting. also, that wasn't an attack or anything, it was just an explanation of my support. most of them were elected for being intelligent, well-considered, and expressing a vision. darius is about the only one who seems like an exception - and that's not to say he didn't have a vision, just that it wasn't why he got in. and the thing about elections is, you don't have to do bugger all after you get elected as long as you do enough before. it's sad that a couple seem to act that way, though unavoidablei've never seen a volunteer committee where 1/3 of the membership didn't float away. i really dislike people who do that, but there's not much i can do about them."
"i'm in total agreement with you regarding csm members having a vision etc however misguided some may think individual ones may be. the problem with a forum-based meeting system is that the opportunity to do bugger all is more available, in a way. at least at an online meeting they may interject or participate in at least _some_ issue discussions, since they are present etc.i'd be convinced of forum-meetings if the voting occurred in an online meeting ie, all discussion of issues would already be complete. there is a risk that csm members could become disinterested in a totally forum-based csm. in addition, regular discussion or development meetings should go hand-in-hand with the forum discussion. this makes the csm interact with each other and gives them a feeling of purpose and 'togetherness'. another large problem facing the csm is the lack of participation in both voting and forum discussions jita park and assembly hall by the majority of the eve player base. that is another thread though, me thinks.take care,arithron"
"have ccp increase your exit speed from the station by 5x in addition to a timer.big ships will take forever to turn around and head back in.besides anyone leaving one of those wierdly aligned stations that block jumps, without a long slug away from the station, to the nearby gates will be grateful.fw needs to see the addtion of factional outposts in enemy territory and the elimination of hostile factions being able to dock at friendly friendly faction stations."
"ccp says that station huggin carier killing your fleet cruiser/bc docking when tank fails is fine. right?"
"signed."
"bump :d"
"never read much, but i hate pos and sov warfare like you said in the op so thumbs up anyway."
"good idea"
"so why is title then 'more skill, less luck'?"
"i propose that ccp put all moon minerals, complexes, high-end asteroids and high-end rats in low sec. the lower the sec status the lower level of materials because that is were the easy industry is and the harder industry is closer to the border of an empires space or going out of their space to do industry. this would help fix the balance for risk/reward. also change the size of 0.0 roids so that they pop from one or two cycles of a strip miner, and limit how much ice spawns on roids in 0.0 saying that the guristas/angels/whoever mines so much of it off. size of roids increases as you move to higher sec status areas.the rp reason for materials moving is that with peace and other things not going on in 0.0 they have been farmed out. this means that the newer materials spawn farther and farther from 0.0. the roids increasing in size would be caused by the empires not building a million titans to sit around doing nothing in."
"posting to support my own thread."
"sounds sensible. supported."
"signed. this is a great idea. 0.0 space should have never been meant for carebears. just a places for newbies to get their feet wet before venturing into lowsec."
"for some reason i have gut feeling it's trolling thread. i'm willing to support that."
"omfg they posted with all their alts. you wanna friggin get the isk sellers rich? what the **** is that? high-sec, high payload of rare minerals? that s plain dumb. why would anyone want to hold 0.0 space then? just for kicks? get a life imo, and stop making trials to support your threads."
"this char is my own alt, not the original posters. ps. i don't think trials can vote ; as far as alts in general go every account has one voice. want to put more veight into your opinion ... well put your money where your mouth is and get more accounts :would not be first time we would see 'argument' in forums where someone is 'pwning' the other, until the 'winning side' by accsident post counterargument against itself that was supposed to be posted by the 'losing side'. i always laugh hard about that ;"
"when ecms were so powerful that they were recomended equipment on most ships, ccp nerfed the strength of the ecm module, then boosted the bonus of ecm specialty ships to compensate. it makes a lot of sense to do the same thing for damp specialty ships to allow them to make use of the module, while leaving the module less useful for non-specialty ships."
"i support to looking at the bonuses for the keres/lachesis/arazu."
"i agree completely. further more, the constant use of the word \"lame\" in a derogatory context within eve is an insult to people with physical disabilities.ccp, please ban all players who use the word \"lame\" to describe anything but a physically challenged individual heroically striving to make the most out of their life.thank you, i look forward to your immediate attention to this matter."
"alot of these issues could be avoided if you just kept your personal details out of a game about internet spaceships... if you must broadcast your personal life, however, be prepared for people who have different opinions. personal harassment is covered pretty well under the eula. i'm all for personalized word filters, since anything else is an intrusion on free speech which is a grave and slippery slope.on another note, you're going to encounter alot of in-character bigotry, crime and general nastiness. that's the nature of eve, just as it's human nature in our world. if you get offended by certain words and views easily, you may want to find a different mmo."
"someone in everquest once tried to argue their right to free speech as an excuse for deliberately trying to offend others by bad language. i believe the argument was along the lines of:the game servers and indeed the forum servers are a privately owned environment. the owners of that environment can enforce any damn rule they like, whether it curtails free speech or not. if you don't like that, write your own game and run your own forums and enforce the rules you want to see enforced."
"no noob areas.eve shouldnt be a game that holds your hand, in any way."
"i am not convinced that the csm will have much of a lifespan beyond the current term.i've noticed that there is a far lower volume of posts being made in the assembly hall of late, and the ones which are being made are often repeat issues or relatively minor points. i don't know if this is just because we are still in holiday season, or if people have put in their pet rants and are recovering for round 2, or what, but this is directly in contrast to the vision that ccp seems to have had for the csm. as noah ward chief programming supremo put it in his interview, they were hoping for 'big picture' ideas from the csm rather than 'niggling little issues'.however, the csm in its current form is only ever going to generate these little issues edit - with the exception of the work of some members who are already doing precisely what i'm about to talk about - lavava voom and his trade & industry analysis for one, and as time goes on, and issues continue to be raised, those issues are just going to get smaller. already i rather pity ccp for the next set of submissions from the csm... i don't know how many issues have been voted to be elevated to having a finger pointed at them with 'look at this please' pinned on, but since the iceland meeting it must be in excess of 100 by now. for all its scope, eve is still a finite game - so what will remain for the next set of csm delegates after all the best, most passionately argued ideas have already been raised by the current incumbents? if it's just going to be issues like 'ship x needs an extra 10 cpu' then csm cannot achieve what ccp wants it to.i'm not sure how to fix that. i wonder if ccp needs to designate specific areas that they want to see a long term proposal for the future arise from, and people could stand for election to those specific positions on the csm. for example, they might want to see an improvement in the way missions are dealt with, so one of the csm positions would have special responsibility for missions, and at the end of the term would be expected to collate a 'grand plan for missions' based on player input via forums and their own expertise. for especially thorny issues, like the perennial 'how to fix low sec' or 'how to make pvp less about blobbing' there might be two or even more positions assigned.of course, the csm has an additional responsibility in that they don't work for ccp - the players still need a channel to have their issues escalated. there would be scope for that, if ccp doesn't try to address everything at once. maybe they could have, say, 5 of the 9 positions with special responsibility for particular issues, and the other 4 be delegates without portfolio.i don't know if the above would work... but i do think that something needs to change to allow the next incarnation of the csm to work on what the boys and girls in reykjavik are expecting. if ccp just see a stream of increasingly 'niggling little issues' coming at them from csm mk 2, they will lose patience with the whole process and call it off - and that would be a bad thing."
"i think this is a good analysis actually. but how should this be worked out? should the csm become more of a 2-way thing where once every quarter, a new set of issues2-3 at max are raised to the community and based on all the feedback, the csm is to come up with an extensive report of some sort, which should be sent to ccp and discussed with the aim to improve the current mechanics based on this feedback? i think that could be quite interesting and it would promote communication as well as working together on larger issues. but again we have to consider that the csm is intended for a way for the community to raise concerns. i already talked about how i hate ship balancing issues with a passion. while it's somewhat utopia to totally rule out these kinds of issues, i think it might be beneficial to try and limit the frequency of these issues.the csm should promote good discussion and give the less vocal players to get their opinions trough. this is not done very well in the current way it's being done.i assume that's me. i should totally change my name to that tbh awesome name"
"it should be a case of setting up the rules in such a way that the situation is covered under them as opposed to hitting a situation and changing the rules to suit. however, this is a minor issue compared to what i personally see as a huge stumbling block in the csm process.the meetings themselves. how many times have we seen the chatlogs of a meeting where:-1 the elected 9 csm members are all present.and2 one or more of the elected csm members hasn't had to leave halfway through a meeting to deal with personal matters / disconnections / sleep etc. thus forcing an overreliance on the presence of the alternative csm members.this, unfortunately, is unavoidable in the current meeting format as it relies on being able to get 9 people from wildly different timezones on the same chat channel for an extended period of time usually multiple hours at a specific time. this is difficult enough with the 9 core csm's with timezones stretching from america to denmark, however when you also add in the alternatives you extend that timezone round to australia.a possible alternative format would be an official csm discussion forum, specifically for discussion and voting between the csm members on issues that have come through the assembly hall public discussion threads.this would lead to the following benefits:-- as it's a forum format, all 9 csm members don't need to be online simultaneously to discuss an issue.- as the discussion threads and votes are a matter of public record it eliminates the need to have seperately posted minutes. this forces csm members to take a more active role in pre vote discussions as people are able to see for themselves just how active they're being.- more issues can be addressed as you're not time restricted by how long people can stay online.- less reliance on alternative csm members. instead, the alternatives can be called up if something occurs to affect a core csm's ability to post for an extended period of time ie holiday / forum ban though this should result in the removal of the csm and the alternative moved up to become a core csm member / illness etc- less confusion when issues are being addressed as each person will be able to finish what they're saying before people reply. how many times has a csm thrown up a point ! in the middle of what someone is saying only to retract it when their concern is addressed in the very next post as the in-game chat forces a break due to posting limits? i know the forum has a posting limit also, however it does allow you to write more than a paragraph before cutting you off.anyway, need to get back to work now so i'll cut this off here.edit: forgot that i'd posted this idea on the first page of this thread..."
"i fully agree. it would be the in my eyes ideal way of doing it.we should really ask for ccp to do this.edit: go support here."
"after reading the various past posts referred to below, i retract this statement and apologise for offence causedpost made here regarding an idea, 3 minutes later you've read it, considered the suggestion and then decided to post it as an issue on the assembly hall? all this without waiting for others to discuss the idea or point out pitfalls etc?if, by some small chance, the original poster of the idea isn't connected to you in any way, imo that precisely this sort of random posting of issues without thorough thought is why the csm is in the state it is meetings taking hours, members not talking to each other, agendas with very little game-changing issues that affect majority of players etc etc.a better way might have been to actually use this thread for it's prime purpose: to discuss and develop issues. afterall, you have posted an idea in the assembly hall, which isn't the issue at all...so hard to vote on etc.take care,arithron"
"no. the csm already bounced around this very idea during iceland and it has been mentioned a few times on the forums that it would be a good idea. so when i read the well-written post, i took the chance and posted it on the assembly hall for further discussion.what *exactly* are you trying to say? that this person is an alt of mine or a friend of mine? neither is true. it's a slippery slope to make such strong statements. do assume everything you know is all there is to know, or do you just make a lot of assumptions?exactly what the idea tries to solve...what? how would you know? i agree and already addressed it several times in my posts.it's an idea for discussion. you will notice that i rarely, if ever, raise an issue to a meeting unless it's well-discussed. tell me, where exactly did i also state that i don't want to discuss the idea in the thread itself? that's a bit lame."
"this topic was brought up weeks agoby me, at a minimum, though i'm not sure if i was the first, and he expressed support for it. he just finally got annoyed enough to post a thread on the topic. and really, the issue of terrible meeting structure is one of the biggest problems with the csm at present. members leaving, quorums disappearing, good issues being ignored because there isn't enough time to discuss them, no debate of any substance - the list goes on. forum-based meetings are the best and most important change to internal processes that the csm could make."
"well, is the assembly hall where ideas are discussed? or do you mean its an idea for csm discussion? this forum thread would ideally be the place for such a discussion by other csm members to express their views etc...which is really what is needed.i would go along with forum meetings for issues/voting if the chat meetings were held on a regular basis for discussion of specific issues before being posted on forum, or vision type issue development and problem definition. both systems would be required, imo, to be a really effective csmtake care,arithron"
"to clear a few points up:________________________________________members not talking to each other ________________________________________well, you said so yourself on scrapheap...arithron wrote:lv, do you discuss all your ideas with a good cross-section of the csm before posting? eg, bane/darius ; serenity; dierdra, hardin note: this is a good range of different playstyles/spheres only and does not, in anyway, reflect ability to think lavista replied: no, i haven't really. some of the stuff i have discussed with ankhmainly the t1 loot stuff and the stock market parts with serenity. but mainly i discuss with people from the communityactually, its my opinion hence the imo. i make assumptions based on the evidence available to me, but my opinions derive from both my life experiences and my impressions of others, coupled with my sense of wellbeing and state of mind at any given time, taking into account any knowledge i may have which i may also ignore in opinion formation.i'm going to stop any personal remarks now, and apologise if i have caused offence! i blame it all on the very recent arrival of a new family member depriving me of sleep...lets get back to making the csm a valuable player asset for the future, and develop the ideas being discussed...take care,arithron"
"bumping this issue back up front.maybe the csm's just don't give a damn, but it'd be worthwhile to say something."
"what are the chances of ccp doing anything about this? i have a nag. still need to do a lil training before it is battle ready. i was hoping not to have to train torps. there was a poat ealier in the forums sayin the where going to reveiw it this month. will ccp tell us we are waisting our time. or will i have to check this post everyday for the rest of my life. anyone know what kinda chance we have of getting this fixed. or at least a time frame.thanks everyone"
"make a new capital ship call it a pos, and have all the modules on it be the guns, hangers, labs, etc.fly it out to the spot, park it, anchor it, fire up the station shield, use it, un-anchor it, fly to a new spot, rinse, repeat.or maybe this could be the titan redesign t2 version that is looming in the distant future."
"and just imagine how bad it would have been if had to do it on a mac"
"support"
"okay, now i feel dumb for bumping this."
"i don't care if it is built-in or a 3rd party app, who ever does this deserves a nice cup of hot sex."
"reduce blobs the game can not currently handle."
"my main character is a gallente who flies amarrian ships. needless to say, a nano nerf would help me out tremendously. even so, i am against it.i enjoy the uphill challenge of countering nano tactics with my limited abilities. so why mess with it? i also like the thought of minmatar ships out-running cruise missiles. that means that a raven needs to rely on an interceptor to take down a nano fleet. so it builds teamwork. is teamwork suddenly a bad enough thing that ccp should discourage it?finally, it's fun to zoom around at top speed. period. this nano nerf is like the nation of india deciding to shave a few thousand feet off the top of mt everest. it's a waste of time, energy, and resources that's gonna change the way we look at the world, **** ppl off, and bog down ccp when they could be focusing on other issues, such as what new ships or skills to roll out in the next build."
"very annoying.sometimes can't see whether a module is active or not."
"so far, so good. 100% support, keep them coming guys!"
"you mean have a checking and savings acount in eve?brilliant!"
"damn i whuld love this!"
"yeah that will be awesome :"
"hell ya!"
"here here, jolly nice idea. i would quite like a savings fund that i can put money in and perhaps put a timer on so that i cant take it out for x number of days."
"i support the nerf!make missles as effective as guns!make speed no longer be the end all be all factor that it is today."
"am for a nano nerf in general but not this overdone stuff i hear of in sisi..plz make it a little more refined ccp.."
"for the nano nerf"
"they'll need something else to do with all those dreds out in 0.0 anyhow after they move sov away from siege warfare, which is already on the drawing boards. why not mining? keep the output under 2/3rds what a hulk can do, and you're golden."
"ok, good one, fine"
"chribba+veldnaught+siege mode+capital mining lazzors= yesalso, it should make an awesome sound like a huge vacuum perhapsanyone else, **** no.. it's about time chribba got some official recognition imo..."
"posted by someone that has no grasp of the real problem. by making high sec space baren wont drive many people to lowsec space it will drive them out of the game.its irrelevant if they put neked ladies dancing on the stations in low sec space the risk to non-pvpers is still unacceptable.why dont they just make an all low sec universe that all you pvpers can go and make another player friendly universe for everyone else,, maby then the game could attract more than a token number of players."
"no, what's out of control is the influx of non pvpers to a pvp game. these people obviously don't like the game, as it's a pvp game, so they do their best to change it. the most common method is by holding ccp ransom with their accounts."
"before you guys start suggesting moving level 4 missions to losec, what about just having level 4 missions limited to t1 hulls?the isk/hr earnings that i've seen claiming 20m isk/hr are from those folks that run with marauders, fleeted with salvaging/logistics alts.hisec level 4 missions are essential income for low-sp characters. certainly, restrict the classes of ship that can enter hisec mission spaces.yes, i support the discussion. no, i do not agree with the original poster's suggestion that level 4 missions should be moved to lowsec.besides, op gives no basis for the suggested nerf apart from being in goonfleet, whose stated purpose is to screw up the game for everyone else."
"i get 25m/hr in a cnr. that's a t1 hull."
"i don't believe you. prove it.it used to be that lo-sec was much more lucrative than hi-sec, and at that time it was much more populated.what's your evidence?"
"why did you join a pvp game if you don't like pvp?"
"actually lowsec emptied a short while after revelations released. risk increased dramatically due to two primary changes.probes killed lowsec, combined with the wcs nerf. it was no longer profitable to stay in lowsec to do missions because you would lose more isk in ships than the additional profits provided.i remember the screams on the forums in dec and jan of that year. and the whining of former corp mates when their mission ravens could only lock to 18 km....."
"because the game itself is fun, pvp or no pvp. personally i avoid pvp except under specific situations, making money to buy shineys is not one of those times that doesn't mean i won't gleefully shoot at an ore thief, wander through lowsec when its been a bad day, shoot at a mission thief after i verify he doesn't have friends in local, etc at times. take those things away and the game would be stale and boring.but i also didn't sign up for \"counterstrike in space\", which is what most pvpers think eve is supposed to be."
"do you think balancing level 4 missions would turn this game into \"counterstrike in space\"?"
"no, i think it would make combat less profitable and less likely to happen.that comment is more directed at all the residual whining about nerfing suicide ganking, etc which is directly related to this topic according to most posts in support of it. \"now that level 4 missioning is 100% safe because of suicide nerfs, we need to balance level 4s\".isn't that the whine of the week?"
"no, it would reduce random go-into-lowsec-with-expensive-battleship-and-blow-some-random-****-up pvp. it would vastly increase combat among those living in lowsec because the space there would actually be valuable and worth fighting over."
"wish this risk vs reward whining would stop soon.those so called carebears you keep talking about actually help a great deal in keeping the cost of rigs and ships down.if you remove that from high sec the price on ships will go up, and the price on rigs will sky rocket.not signed at all.let the carebears stay in empire and build ships that i can blow up"
"constellation sov been here for awhile now. and removing pos from sov not good idea but def needs tweeking and the use of plexes and such to maintain sov is no good since for the most part sov holding alliances focus on pvp more than those aspects of the game, in addition to the afk miners and farmers that would then gain sov with bots doing all the work."
"forgot to mention the offlined place holding pos,s that clutter everything up , if its offline for more than 30 days it should be able to be stolen. this would for the most part put an end to pos spamming entie regions of space and allowing the towers to go off line and still maintain control of systems and moons.cans disappear make the hundreds of small poss just sitting in claimed space off line not a point of contention.this in itself would make small gang warfare a viable threat to large space holding alliances forcing them to fuel and maintain them or suffer the threat of small gangs coming in unanchoring/reanchoring them using them for a base of operations within the system. not a cure for pos problem but maybe some in roads to the solution"
"make eve ships two-seaters? this is right out of left field, but i'm not actually sure it's a bad idea. i'd like to see what ccp does with this idea. try crossposting this to f+i - the devs reply to some threads there, i'd be curious about what they said."
"would be a fantastic way to train pilots."
"yeah, that is the simple answer, but clearly not what the devs had in mind, or they would have just let alliances in from the git-go. i think it's a shame we have a csm member promoting side-stepping their intent, but, there you go. we'll just have to see if they do anything about it, or not."
"why should jade want the way its done changed?after all, her/his entire alliance is war-deccing all corps that are joining the caldari militia pretty much at this point, thus influencing the fw in favour the caldari militia's enemies.i agree that something needs to be done. how about this.1/ give the corps that join a fw militia a non-war-dec status, like npc corps get. this way while your corp is involved as part of the fw militia you can't be war-decced by non fw militia corps and you are also not able to war-dec any corp that isn't part of a fw militia. 2/ if your corp has open war-decs on them when they try to join, they have to be settled prior to joining either by surrendering or what ever before the corp can join a fw militia.3/ if your corp leaves the fw milita any current war-decs are automatically cancelled.this would protect fw corps from massive alliances war-decing them just because they are annoyed they can't join the fw on mass as an alliance. if the alliance wants to war-dec fw corps, then they have to split up, join fw militias of thier choice and play on a level playing field, just like everyone else."
"agreed"
"do it!"
"i want the nanoed out speed-mining ship of doom. fly through the belts at 11k with a big scoop in the front ramming 'roid into your hold as you go. don't need no stinking lasers.blow through enemy bubble camps, jake all their arkonor, and laugh at them as you speed away. all those nano-pilots who are going to go through withdrawl soon can become industrial terrorists."
"want to make more money? mine arkanor or bistot or even mercoxit now in 0.0 i dualbox hulks and i average 90-120mil an hour, they aren't even skilled that well too."
"i don't recall saying caldari navy or any conventional factions need to be involved at all. it could be restricted to pirate factions and/or factions that have significant interests in 0.0 already. as far as the 60mil per month, i do believe i already made a disclaimer regarding that in the op.nonspecifically not you becq if you need to smack my idea, that's fine; but if you need to smack tcf please take it to caod or stfu. thanks ;"
"* * * lag is the critical issue * * * this topic is meant to encourage discussion of server side lag.please include the following in your posts:1.situations where lag most frequently occurs2.proposed solutions to lag in those situationssample post:1.solar systems completely lock up for all involved fleet members during fleet battles with 300 or more players. fleet battles function as a chaotic form of turn based module activation.2.invest in server hardware as opposed to new content development.thank you!"
"ok, i start with the most common and obvious situation:lag in jita!* jumping into the system, docking into the station, undocking from the station can take up to 45min that was the longest time i waited before creating a stuck petition! when doing this friday/saturday/sunday at rushhour. most time with a black screen without the possibility to cancel.* lag for any operation warp, sell, buy, write mail, whatever... can be more then 2min during rushhour.* the lag increases significantly towards the downtime it's most awful a few min before dt. so there seems to be an aging problem bad garbadge collector, memory leaks, locked resources, .... other games have no regular dt and stay online for month without any aging problem...in my opinion any blackscreen longer then a few seconds is unacceptable.and a 2min lag can actually not be called \"lag\" anymore... its more \"an asynchronous time difference between actions and their effects\".solutions: solve the problem, not the symptoms!* reduce the amount of data that is transfered to the required minimum! see \"observer pattern\" in any good programming pattern book!* split the users into logical groups to reduce the complexity of the problem \"devide and conquor!\". a character jumping into jita should not concern me while i am docked in the station. all that i need it the few bytes telling me that he is now in showing it in the local window.* dont beleive that this problem will disapper from itself by players beeing to annoyed and then use other trading hubs... a trader has no real alternative and will more likely stop playing eve* solve the aging issue. use memory leak tools ect.regards,eve g."
"ship tanks are better. sentry guns haven't improved.improve sentry guns - it may be one of the steps that gets more people to go into low sec."
"not to rain on anybody's parade, but i don't see why anything needs to be changed. adding extra complications to the already complicated process of cap ship construction/maintenance/use will only serve to benefit the stronger and larger corporations in this game much in the same way that corporate taxes kill off entrepreneurs while increasing profits for large multinational corporations in the real world. if it ain't broke, don't fix it, please."
"so... bringing a dozen titans, and who knows how many carriers... is acceptable?once upon a time, the titan was introduced as an awesome and incredible support craft. it could do the doomsday once/hour, and provide the whole fleet with buffs in the meantime.then people conquered enough space, and made rediculous amounts of isk, and started mass producing the damned things. now there's no need to bring anything but a dozen titans. just jump them in one at a time, and dd the field until everything is dead.if by any chance there are survivors, then a few carriers can deploy about 500 fighters to mop up.now... i'm sure that capitals online sounds like fun to some... but i sure as hell don't want to participate in a nuclear holocaust with a bb gun in my hand.whereas... adding some sort of limitation to what is otherwise a completely out of control playstyle... may seem unfair to the alliances who are wftbbqpwn'ing the whole universe with their overwhelming tactics, it's only putting things back into balance a bit.this is a game, and when everyone but the bully thinks its not fun anymore, then it's time to change the game."
"why stop at capitals.the only cost that would be incurred upon a ship is maintenance cost of the crew wages, food, entertainment? and all ships in eve require crews.so if your going to say i need pay ongoing maintenance for a cap ship above and beyond that of combat/movement depletables, then i say you should also be required to pay ongoing cost for your lowly frigates, cruiser or battleship.i suppose this would be a nice buff to amarr pilots as they can delete a sizable part of their maintenance costs by not paying wages to their crew."
"often enough when you have a load of drones in your drone bay you will group them just to get a bit of a structure and organisation in your drone bay. but if you want to launch a couple of different class drones you will also get a not so easy manageable view in your drone in local space tab.especially carrier, motherships which carry around a lot of drones and not only fighters, and i haven't met anyone yet who only put fighters in a carrier, will make groups just to keep his 200+ drones drone bay just a bit overviewable. but when you launch say +10/12 drones and say you got drones out of 3 groups you will get a pretty unmanageable overview, especially when you need to click through dozens of groups just to find the right ones. and personally i don't see why you would need drone groups in space. for me the only usefulness is when they are stored in the dronebay.my suggestion therefore is is either to remove the groups when your drones enter local space or to add a setting under the drones setting where you can put this function on or off.this would make controlling drones in space just a bit more overviewable."
"i like this plan."
"1 missions need to be made more dynamic and unpredictablei don't agree. boring missions mean people losing interest and finding something else to do.however, npcs that occasionally retarget and start firing on people entering mission space will encourage mission-runners to take ships into missions that are more suited to pvp play, and thus encourage them to move to the more profitable level 5 missions in lowsec.a simple solution would be for npcs to target the most recent arrival within range. this is still predictable enough for mission-runners to be able to grind their isk up to support their gtc and lowsec/nullsec play, while simultaneously reducing the risk to mission runners by giving them an advantage over pirates.the isk must flow, for mission runner to go.2 mission pay-out in low-sec and 0.0 needs improvementit's not so much the payout that needs improvement as much as the risk that requires reduction. a mission-runner engaged in a mission is extremely vulnerable to pirates first due to the fact that they're in a mission-running setup, not a pvp setup, and second the fact that they're already engaged in combat with a fleet.the mere presence of a mission runner in a lowsec system will attract pirates. it's a given that pirates will intrude.perhaps if npcs were to retarget when other people enter mission space, there might be some redress to the risk vs reward of lowsec missions of any level.3 module loot has a negative impact on the economy by making t1 production obsolete and injecting too many minerals into the economyi agree. remove unnamed t1 loot from npcs. remove mineral loot from drones, let them drop rig materials instead.4 missions in factional warfare require improvementsi am not engaged in fw, but from what i've heard agents will sometimes send solo pilots on missions 20 jumps into enemy territory. that doesn't sound particularly appealing to me.5 mining missions require improvementsmining is about isk/hr. if the mining mission doesn't pay out equivalent to what the miner could make in the same time by just mining, why would they run the mission?add losec ores to hisec mining missions, for example. this provides an incentive for people to scout out mining mission deadspaces to mine those ores. this would make mining itself more interesting.in fact, i'd go so far as to remove all ores apart from veldspar from hisec belts, and put the other stuff exclusively into deadspaces that either belong to missions mining or combat or exploration sites.the devs have already stated that they were looking at moving belts to non-system space anyway. why not just take them away altogether and put ores into mission/exploration deadspaces?6 agents are static, resulting in overloaded mission hubs, desire to have agent quality made dynamictwo thumbs up for this suggestion. agent quality should decrease as they hand out more and more missions. agent quality should increase every downtime. the decrease should be enough that they will degrade from day to day if they hand out more than 1100 missions a day. that's enough to sustain 50 concurrent mission runners who can complete one mission an hour.7 level 4 missions in their current form do not belong in high-security spacebulldust. malcanis can't come up with any better reason than some equivalent of \"they're cramping my style.\"8 standing is being monopolized by missions no ways to get standing outside of mission running, with the exception of fw standingperhaps empires could put bounties on the heads of people who are disliked by that faction? this gives the mission-runner-haters a means to address their \"too many level 4 mission runners in hisec\" concerns.the bounty could increase exponentially in value both isk and standings adjustment as the deviation from 0 becomes greater."
"in agreement.i also agree with other posters that low-sec doesn't need an incredible boost and that high-sec needs a significant nerf to combat mission rewards.i don't believe the best answer is to remove content l4s moved to low-sec from the folks that will never leave high-sec. i'd hate it if ccp removed all the mission runners from low-sec .i believe a very good tool to accomplish both a buff of low-sec and a nerf of high-sec missions can be found described and debated here: auto-balancing missions.nice to see that the csm rep talking about this and doing so with what appears to be an open mind is the one that i feared would have the most closed mind to addressing the current imbalance between high-sec and low-sec.signed,ardproud low-sec dweller since my rookie days."
"have lost ship to the exact thing you explain but did get reimbursed. mine may have been due to the fact that i was in the station still targeted and receiving damage 9 au away and just took a quick screeny b4 i went pop. sorry to see you leave. and really agree with you i still have 3 accts active but rarely do much more than skill change atm since lag is just ridiculous to the point even the old drive by snipe cant hardly be done.screen load times server lag and the like have slowly made the game more of an irritant than enjoyable"
"some time ago i petitioned and inserted bugreport that the modify order did not ask when i made an error one digit to few, and gone was the thing... ccp implemented that in the next patch so petitions and bugreports do help..., but i never got my money back.i completly agree, that it should not compare to the overall average but to the average buy or sell price and then warn you if the diff is too big.and that it takes the higher buy price is really stupid...i mean if i offer less for a sell order i also dont pay less for it!? i pay the price asked or there is no deal. should be the same for buy orders./signedeve g.p.s.: i really like this picture with the peak in it... at least you had some influence on the market"
"this, i wish theyd just tell us what they were doing though, its really annoying to try second guess whats coming next, sure suprises are great blah, but not when it cld mean \"just-another patch\"\"omg awesome patch\" or \"omfg this patch is so bad oh noes\""
"its nice to see that such a huge amount of bugs has been fixed...really, its good to see that something is happening...but i haven't seen even one fix from the usability report buglistso csm, please stay with this!here two things from the dev block that make me wonder:\"the eve mail window can now be resized. this will allow for an easier reading experience for very long mails.\"lol! long mails? there are no long mails possible due to the damn character limit!if they changed that this would be great, but they haven't mentioned it anywhere...\"the character limit in notepad has been fixed to 3900 characters and on exceeding this limit...\"great, so now we have another text field with such an annoying character limitmaybe i should explain the ccp devs how to implement a dynamic string and how to save & load it.every programming student learns this in the first year...eve g."
"i just detected that ccp casqade has replied to the original thread see above.so ccp now knows about it, so the goal of this thread is fulfilled lets see what happens to these bugs in the future thx again to jeremey and all his russian friends to collect thisb data.regards, eve g."
"you're doing that playing everyone for stupid thing again. making those who war-dec a militia corp subject to the same mechanics as anyone else engaged in fw is not creating an \"instance\". you're intentionally throwing up a red-herring here jade, by equating it to something that you know would have no support in eve.the devs, clearly, and explicitly, did not want fw dominated by existing alliances, otherwise, they would have just let them in from the git. you're promoting side-stepping that to further your own in-game objectives, and that, given you position is a shame. no two ways about it."
"well sure, but we're debating the principles of what's right and wrong here. ccp could ban all pvp tomorrow because it \"encourages violence\" or some nonsense and their game would die. i don't see any reason why we shouldn't have personalized word filters aside from the time and resources needed to put such a feature in. \"because they can\" is hardly an argument."
"\"sticks and stones can break my bones, but words will never hurt me.\"if you are so thin skinned that you need a word filter you should probably terminate contact with your fellow human beings. just in case someone somehow manages to utter a sound that terminally offends you.imho, demanding that certain words to be censored is the biggest bigotry of them all."
"no offence caused, to me at least. i know first hand how much lack of sleep can affect a person, congratulations on the new arrival, by the way. i have to admit i was surprised myself when the idea appeared in the assembly hall as this isn't really an issue that directly affects a large portion of the playerbase, but only a select few the csm. it does indirectly affect a lot more people as it means that more of the csm's business is available for scrutiny by the public meaning that any csm member who isn't pulling their weight will be seen by those who voted for them as ineffective and so not worthy for reelection. if it gets really bad, then, in that particular case there's grounds for removal of the csm member with replacement by someone who is willing to put in the work. however, we must accept that a certain amount of the csm's business must happen behind closed doors specifically due to the nda.the biggest hurdle that the csm will have to cross is that a large amount of the community believe that they're just a pr stunt by ccp. what needs to happen is the practical implementation of solutions to the issues presented by the csm, for those solutions to be heralded as having been a direct result of csm involvement in the process. with that, the percention of csm as a pr stunt will fade as it becomes apparent that they are effective at dealing with matters that the community feels strongly about. the voterbase need to believe that the csm can make a difference so as to encourage a larger turnout at the next election and so lend more legitimacy to the csm process.a statistic that many of the detractors like to throw around is that only 11% of the playerbase cared enough about the csm to vote. however, there were many stories going on around the time of the election about problems with voting through the forum software getting kicked off multiple times while attempting to vote, for example. this process needs to be streamlined a lot more to make it easier to cast your vote, perhaps by advertising the process at character login and providing a way of voting from the character selection screen without coming here and having to deal with the forums software problems.oh, and just for the record, i'm neither an alt nor an aquaintance of lavista vista, my only tie to him was that he happened to be the csm i voted for as his ideas meshed a lot with my own at the time of the election."
"planetary interaction: sub stations, colonies, asteroid/ice/moon colonyreason-i feel that the current state of things leaves much to be desired. once an alliance carves out a piece of space for itself, all that you can do with that space is either actively mine its belts, or passively mine the moons. meanwhile you have to haul bulky products from empire to fuel all the towers. with this purposed idea, it will add more infrastructure to an alliance, serve to adequately manipulate its resources, facilitate alliance self-sufficiency, provide facets for pvp and also persuade more alliances to deploy stations and achieve constellation sov, due to a colony requiring constellation sov leading hopefully to a more populated 0.0again, i would like to stress that all of the below ideas can only be put into effect if the alliance obtains constellation sov.specifics-these structures can only be anchored in a system that is under constellation sov. a colony consists of 2 main pieces: one, an orbiting module around the planet which serves as a hub and two, a colony on the planet which harvests the resources. you can then add asteroid/ice/moon colonies as deemed necessary.the orbiting hub aka: sub stationthe orbiting hub will serve multiple purposes. think of the hub as a sort of \"sub station\". you can anchor the sub station at any planet under the alliances constellation sov. you can access resources to and from the colony at this hub. you can access certain portions of the hub only if you have the roles required by the alliance. you will interact with it much in the same way that you interact with a pos or perhaps one would be able to dock with it. you deposit items into a resource hangar that is required for the colony to continue functioning. you can also access resources that the colony produces out of another hangar.inputted resources: workers, marines, slaves, tourists, livestock, food etc. depending on planetoutputted resources: enriched uranium, robotics, coolant, mechanical parts, oxygen, assorted isotopes, ore and ice. fuel pellets if need be depending on planetyou will notice that most outputted resources are pos and capital ship fuel. the benefit of this is that the required resources for a colony will be easier to import because they take up less room in a cargo hold. then you take the outputted resources and fuel your towers and ships. it will have to be balanced to the point so that a colony isnt vastly overpowered compared to the current form of fueling towers, but enough to make it all worthwhile. take the idea a stretch further and be able to upgrade a colony enough to where it is self sufficient, eliminating the need to import fuel all together. for example, every week the colony is functioning, it either decreases its fuel requirement or it actually starts producing fuel for itself aka- marines, slaves, workers.as long as constellation sov is maintained, the orbiting hub will not be destroyable. only the service module can be attacked, much like a stations services. see missions. if constellation sov is lost, the colony will be vacated, it can then be attacked/destroyed/sit there useless. if it is destroyed all resources in the hubs hangars will be lost, the planet colony is also destroyed and the planet will slowly revert to its pre terra-formed or un-inhabited state. if constellation sov is regained by the alliance that deployed the colony and it had not been destroyed, then it will become active again.it would also be beneficial if the orbiting hub could take over the functions of a research/manufacturing pos. a player would be able to conduct research/copying/invention/manufactuing much in the same way you can with a pos now.-continued"
"the planet colonyafter a colony is in place it will either terra form the planet to the point where it is more earth like, or it will merely take advantage of the planet resources and use some sort of bio-dome for the colony. each planet may very well have different resources ala moon mining. an icy world may offer different resources than a volcanic one.another way ambulation could happen is that only planets with regular outposts at them could have ambulation, planet colonies with sub-stations at them would merely serve to harvest the planet. this would localize ambulation planets a little more and restrict their abundance to the number of systems with outposts in the constellation.you can visit the colony itself by first going to any of the stations in the sov 4 constellation and then ferrying to it after making your colony selection. the ferry will basically be a jump from the station to the colony. you will take nothing with you to the colony and your ship will still be in the station you were at. after arriving on the planet, it will take advantage of ambulation and give eve a more dynamic feel. once on the planet, you can walk around and interact. i think it would be great if there were missions of some kind that take place solely on the planet but that is probably asking too much. if constellation sov is lost at anytime and you are either logged out at or logged in at a planet colony, then you will be evacuated to the station you were previously at without choice. to hear about planetary bombardment, read the post below this.ccp stated that there will be features in ambulation, but also that ambulation would only be present in a few stations in empire. planet-side interaction is really here to facilitate this feature to those in 0.0 who want it. planet ambulation is not specifically needed for the rest of this planetary interaction model which i am proposing.-the asteroid/ice colony:an asteroid/ice colony is an anchorable structure in space which can only be placed at a belt with a related planet colony if you have a colony at planet 5, then you can place asteroid/ice colonies at all of the planet v belts. the asteroid/ice colonies will be placed at a belt and harvest any of the ores/ice in the belt. a small flotilla of drones will be the harvesting mechanism. the drones will randomly mine from any asteroid/ice in the belt. a new ice mining drone will need to be implemented. these drones will be invulnerable to npc rats but vulnerable to enemy attack, if that happens then the alliance must replace the drones for harvesting to continue. the ore/ice from the asteroid/ice colony will need to be manually hauled before if reaches maximum capacity and stops harvesting. there will be a resource requirement for asteroid/ice colonies, such as workers, miners, etc. the resources required for an asteroid/ice colony will be added to the resource requirement of the orbiting hub that the asteroid/ice colony is delegated too.an asteroid/ice colony can be attacked at any time:if constellation sov is in effect, the asteroid/ice colony can only be put out of operation by an attacking force which can then take off with some of the gathered resources. this will halt any harvesting. you can reactivate the asteroid/ice colony once you rep it back up or if it passively regains its shields. this will give any hostile gang something to do if it cant find anyone to shoot in the area and force the alliance to defend its infrastructure.if constellation sov is lost, the asteroid/ice colony will be vacated. it can then be destroyed or sit there useless. if constellation sov is regained by the alliance that deployed the asteroid/ice colony then it will become active"
"-the moon colony:this feature will have the ability to replace moon mining pos's. it will be an anchorable structure in space. if an alliance has the ability to start a colony on the planet that the moon is orbiting, then they have the option of tearing d"
"neat idea!"
"sounds interesting. i can see some problems though, specifically, at the moment, the items that you mentioned that go into the colony  are at current hard to find. i know that some people fly around with them in their cargohold just for kicks, exotic dancers, especially, but this suggestion would require new methods of obtaining them. apart from that, good idea."
"in 1 of the first eon magazine's there was a article about such thing,will later look into it .tho no news ever since"
"nobody has anything to add?"
"this is a great idea. obviously the resources for the colony would need to be easier to obtain than they are now. i could also see this tying into a lot of other great ideas on this forum."
"so was there a meeting this month or what? i just got minny bs v done, and it rocks for flying a phoon or maelstrom, but should i train large proj turrett v or not?"
"/signed"
"i agree with the op"
"and make pos spam easier? no./me thumbs' down"
"taking down and setting up posses is the most tedious, boring and annoying thing in the whole of eve. it<U+FFFD>s also known to cause decrease of mental capacity over time.much support for this topic."
"let me expand on the idea someone mention before me that most space game has a colony ship. how about we have a colony ship too that costs around 20m in mineral to build and required a tower. diff tower size give diff amount slot to prefit on the ship like large tower will give 10 slot, med 6 and small 3.the ship has a reserved fuel bay for 1day to supply the pos and a fuel bay to hold fuel for jumping. this ship is light, so it has quite long jump range. when lauched, the ship will automaticly anchor the tower and continue to anchor/online the mod on prefit slot."
"burden of proof's on you to show that this change cannot be decoupled from pos spam. twd's already tried and failed, now it's your turn."
"this makes sense. :condi:"
"supporting this for the phoenix pilots the nag will suck regardless"
"/signed. fix the citadels."
"against the nerf."
"against the nerf"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"i don't know what i like more: tarminic's idea or yamamoto's....speedy space medic frigates are needed, big dumb battleships with logistic abilities are needed as well even though the competition at this level are pretty impressive - the carriers...but supply vessels would be even more interesting. maybe some minijumpfreighters with some slots for a slight bit of tank or speed, as well as some of those long range capital tractor beams to pull in the wrecks after the fight? in case the minijumpfreighter's team has won it, of course "
"i'm inclinded to disagree with this idea.as a logistics boat it'll fail its role due to weak remotes and low hp. instead, i'd imagine a mini blockade runner more agile at that but sans turret and perhaps slightly less cargo would be a more effective t2 use of the hull."
"decent idea, especially with the fw limitations you mentioned.or, perhaps, let's just implement a logistics module or 4.energy transfer supplementer, shield transfer supplementer, remote armor repair supplementer - mid slot item, +100 transfer/repair amount, +100% transfer/repair range per logistics level. only one transfer supplimenter, of any type, can be active per ship. does not, itself, do anything remotely but makes remote logistics more efficient.remote hull repair supplementer - low slot, +30% reduction in remote hull repair cycle time /level. in addition to other bonuses.this will enable anyone to provide logistics without requiring the introduction of an entirely new ship type. current logistic ships are able to run multiple modules simultaneously."
"wow, it's perfect, this is a major one to get on the table."
"excellent idea."
"logistics bs requiring bs 5/logistics 5 but with 150km+ rep range and a tank, kthx"
"i believe it gives too much power to the defenders as a few people have stated.i also believe it will restrict travel further and make roving pvp much more difficult. small gangs and small corps will suffer while large ones will gain. due to more uncertainty it would be safer to take just a little larger blob etc etc. we need to move away from that not further towards it.while i appreciate that there are a ton of great ideas posted, and this initially seemed like one of them, many people seem to forget that a very large portion of the player base are not hardcore eve ninjas.while this idea would work for a small percentage of people living and working in nosec/lowsec it would further restrict those people who just like to dabble in pvp. to make pvp more than the opportunity to get hammered, you would need a gang with even more specialists than the current system. this invalidates pvp for thousands of players in very small corps. it also has a negative impact on newer players who's only intel is local! finally this idea would probably meet with the most whining ever! there would be far less targets as everyone would stay in systems they have good intel in until \"their probing guy came on\" and thus hardly ever meeting up with the enemy.a big no from me."
"i like it, as long as small corps arent ****ed, which i think you covered, i do certainly like it."
"heres an idea - killmarks.a killmark would be an item that you get when you get final blow on your target. a bounty system would be created so that you can use the killmark as proof that you killed the target.points how it would work:you dont get killmarks unless you have accepted a kill contract.accepting the kill contract gives you like a passcard used in complexes that will be red in colour. when you kill your target, the item changes colour to green. then you can complete the contract and collect the reward.kill contracts would maybe 7 days after accepted? but if you fail to complete it, the killmark like a pass card thingy like you need to open gates in complexes. examples = zbikoki's hacker card / r.s. officer's passcard disappears.multiple people can accept one contract. but only 1 person will be able to complete it. i.e. only 1 person gets the reward.you would only be able to accept say 2 kill contracts at a time.kill contracts can be accepted from anywhere and completed from anywhere enables outlaws to try it alsothe target can also shoot the bounty hunter.killmarks would not be jetisonable. a killmark would be present in your cargohold all the time while the contract is accepted. the killmark cannot be moved from cargohold. but will automatically be present in any ship you fly, whether you eject and board a new one, or dock and change ship. the one you are currently flying keeps the killmark.---------------------ofcourse, this could be done by the addition of a new tab in the character sheet, killmarks would then show up in that new tab rather than as an actual item in your cargo.for merc corps, only director/ceo can accept a kill contract on a corporation/alliance. the person setting up the contract can specify a minimum number of kills or duration of the war. the fee for setting up the contract would cost the war bill for the specified duration and be paid automatically on acceptance of the contract. if insufficient kills are obtained, the corp wallet of the merc corp must pay the war fee, and charges to the issuer will be refunded.what you people think?"
"i agree. seperate wallets would make my own personal bookkeeping much more simple./signed"
"good idea"
"tie this idea in with the personal hangar divisions as well, and that's one streamlined individual.i mean who packs up their house in the same box? or doesn't label individual boxes eh? eh?yes ccp and csm, divisional wallets and personal hangar space, asap."
"most definitely."
"as a die-hard drone user, i most definitely sign!would said drone implants be hardwiring implants slots 6-10 or could we also see drone implant sets similar to snake/crystal/halo implants slots 1 to 6 including an omega implant? either way, would be nice. i would like to see these or variants of available:- +1/3/5% drone and/or fighter hp- +1/3/5% drone and/or fighter damage- -1/3/5% cpu on drone modules- +1/3/5% drone and/or fighter velocity- +1/3/5% drone and/or fighter tracking- +1/3/5% logistic drone effectiveness- +1/3/5% e-war drone effectivenesshaving some fighter ones thrown in would be quite nice for carrier pilots, especially the tracking one. and yes, t2/faction/named drone modules are long overdue, how they'd be balanced would be out of my hands. also, some proper faction drones would be nice, and not the augmented ones, but things like the navy drones and/or pirate drones gallente/serpentis would have improved hobs/hammers/ogres for example.hey, a long list but might as well throw these ideas into the pot let's hope we see some of these soon , and maybe the winter expansion? *hint hint*"
"don't forget drone optimal range and falloff for sentries."
"i very much support this idea, i would love anything that boosts my little helpers. one thing that puzzles me though, in ccp wrangler's opening statement he sas that there are so few skills for drone users, well, i have 16 drones skills and 7.2 mil sp, which far out weighs any other skill set that i have, but for which there are a whole host of implants available.did i miss read this?"
"dont forget the pirate set, like the nomad or snake but dropped by rogue drone ships or expeditions, that combine to increase all around drone effectiveness by 20% in all areas, not just hit points and damage.yeah, but we shall see.my bet is jan."
"this is good. drones are good."
"nvm"
"nerf them."
"i think i'm going to have to support though i havnt seen this just yet it sounds like a major problem. i just started to play again starting to wonder if i should have waited a bit longer. sounds like they need to make some kindof compromise though."
"supported"
"suppoartedeven though the against nano nerf thread will get more votes, because nano***s always whine."
"heck yea, er i mean hell yea!"
"prices on rigs and ships going up would be soooo good for this game. well, at least ships. imagine actually paying 105 million for a raven again? i mean, that's what the insurance pays out, and that's where the price used to be. it would be great."
"solving the suicide gank issue instantly, among other benefits."
"disagree!"
"this is my suggestion...isn't it the plan anyway?"
"/signed"
"i may have missed if it was mentioned already, but has the difference between npc and conquerable 0.0 been noted?npc systems provide many of the same benefits as conquerable 0.0 space, including high-end moons, explorations and ratting. however they also eliminate many of the drawbacks. alliances cannot be effectively kicked out of living in npc 0.0. there are no station services to disable, no sovereignty to threaten and hinder station access. i see potential here to extend factional warfare into 0.0, where only corps and alliances with standing to a faction can use all the facilities in their space. in order to remain there, they must also defend the space or risk losing access to it."
"i endorse this product."
"0.0 is broken. empire is in pretty much every way better than 0.0. this needs to be fixed."
"i believe it is possible to rebalance the risk:reward ratio of lowsec and nosec without aggravating wide swaths of the member base, and without destroying the established economy. this would go a long way toward intriguing empire people and making the more dangerous areas more interesting for players. npc 0.0 is probably too good or perhaps there is too much of it for what the game needs. without some sort of population pressure pirate space is better than most of conquerable space, with less hassle --it's a boring setup and it limits the scope of eve's endgame. all it needs is ccp's support and the attention of their staff."
"this has lots of potential. i'd be interested to see what ppl could do with it.think a skill of some sort should be attached?"
"to much open space for griefing and pointless risk. additionally, if a person wants to see up-front capital combat all they have to do is youtube it or maybe \"buy\" with iskies detailed video *hint**hint*./not signed"
"i can see a lot of oppourtunities for griefing, but with some work it could be good. /signed."
"i know what you are saying and i think i agree with avoiding what you want to avoid. however, under the current rules fw corps are already being treated differently from normal corps - eg they can't be in an alliance whilst in the militia but the militia doesn't function like an alliance for wardecs. so given that fw corps are already treated in a special way i'm not sure saying they shouldn't be for further proposed changes holds much water."
"one of my wing men proposed this solution to the nano-nerf. disclaimer: i love my nano toys!!!micro warp drives are in theory supposed to be drives that produce miniature warps that propel a ship, thus the name micro warp. what if the simple solution to the supposed \"nano problem' was that warp scramblers and disruptors reduced the effectiveness of those micro warp drives?say a micro warp has 'stabilization/calibration points', two for easy math and discussion. ws points on a mwd +500% speed bonus for easy math reduces that drives effectiveness, in this case one point on the offending nano ship drops the net speed boost by 50% mwd now operating at +250%, when the drive is out of points the warp scrambles shut the drive off. or each ws point applied to a nano ship, that ship's speed boost drops its speed by 50%. the micro warp drive starts at 100% speed bonus +500% to base speed, then as it loses efficiency due to the ws points interfering with its operation, it becomes 50% effective speed bonus +250% base speed, then 25% effective +125% speed bonus etc. this effect would be in line with existing modules, like stacking webs or sensor damps on normal ships. this would increase the value of the pure interceptors like the raptor because of their ws range bonuses. this is a proactive approach to the nano issues, evolving combat. it would preserve the hard work people have done building their nano rockets, while adding an element of danger to them where they no longer have the silver bullet slug drivers complain about. i think this would enhance game play for everyone, while not wasting the entire speed culture. taark"
"nctaark does have a very good point,though my math is at the level of a pre schooler,to figure out all that lol."
"nice idea taark. may need some adjusting but i like"
"i agree with this proposed idea, perhaps the numbers may need to be re-worked to where it is well ballenced, but the idea is sound. this would also lead in for warp core stabs to come back into some use as well, as they could add more points to aid the micro warp drives from loosing thier speed and or being shut down...as to if u would want to use them in this fashion if they did is another story"
"we already have modules that slow down mwding ships, at ranges comparable to scramblers. they're called webifiers. and the idea of putting an anti-mwd effect on a 24km disruptor just takes all the thought out of pvp - anyone pvping at ranges where mwds are relevanti.e., not sniping is already assumed to be under a disruptor. you're making mwds a novelty item, even worse than abs are now. as for 8eta's comment, no, stabs will not come back into use for pvpthank god. you might be able to run a mwd and get an actual bonus for it, but you'll be unable to lock a star in less than three weeks. that's not a solution either."
"hell, i am willing to support any idea that puts a stop to the disgrace nozh has in mind.cheers."
"sounds good.. i dont nano but this is a middle ground option that will still maintaain the nano vessel as a viable combat fitout. /signed"
"yes!"
"aye too right.."
"hard code the capital policy and allow carriers and dreads in high sec. they never should have been banned only nerfed. ccp's favorite pastime i hate running fighters around in an indyif this is unacceptable then return the veldnaught and all the historic high sec capitals."
"problem: large fleet combat in low/no sec. the servers can easily be brought to their knees with as few as 100 ships.solution: hot scalable hardware and software anyone? hello?? ccp currently has none of either.support.yes, i pretty much copied your \"sample\" post. why? because it is so valid a point, and has been for the over 4 years that ccp has done next to nothing about it."
"not signed - not even a little.sentry guns already do their job - i.e. providing a consequence for lowsec piracy - quite well. as many have pointed out, it takes a bs, commandship, hictor or specialized bc/hac to tank the guns. many have complained that these ships can \"instapop a badger\" etc. my response?of course they can. they should for pete's sake! your badger costs 1 mil for the hull and 20mil for mods if you go all out. the minimum cost of a good solo gatecamp ship is about 80-100mil. i could get into comparitive skill points, but suffice to say that gatecamp ships also require many more sp than industrials. any system which made it such that these ships couldn't kill your 1-20mil badger would be horribly broken.if you want to travel through lowsec in relative safety, hire a scout, get a transport ship or rig your ship out such that it aligns too quickly for a big nasty bs or bc to chase you down. in other words, invest more sp and isk - that's what the pirates have to do. shouldn't you have to do the same to beat them?finally, i feel that it is worth mentioning that increasing sentry dps will only make gatecamps larger. fewer? yes. but much larger. solo/small team gatecamps aren't too bad for travel - they are beatable. you can conceivably get a ship through them or even put together a fleet to kill them/chase them off. large gatecamps are soul-destroying monsters against which there is little defense and almost no possibility of attack. lets not create a system which encourages more of them.[edit - realized that there were a few other bad ideas worth slamming = ]\"focusing fire\" - this is an inconceivably bad idea. if sentry guns \"focus fire\" on one ship until dead or departed, this makes it such that one pirate in a bs or commandship can tank the guns for an entire fleet. in other words, it would allow a pirate blob to be composed of any ship - gank bss, interceptors, recons, nanoships etc - provided that one of their ships the first one to get flagged was a passive drake or other similar ship. if you want to make a pirate's life easier, vote for \"focused fire.\"attacking all ships at once - this is the only decent suggestion made in this thread, and the only buff to sentries i would support. making sentries attack all flashing ships in range would deter blobs while leaving solo/small gang gatecamps i.e. gatecamps you have a chance of escaping alone. if sentries have to be changed, this is the way to do it."
"sentrys limit the role of small ships without making it impossible to fight around them, they are a deterrant and work to swing the balance of small scale fights. no change required."
"i fully support the buffing of sentry guns. and scaling their damage according to sec status of system. i also agree that we want to encourage more low sec fighting! however, low sec gate camps do not encourage more carebears/newbs to go to low sec!!!!some people really never think things through."
"disagree, this is bears whining, nothing more. the beauty of eve is the danger everywhere, lose that and its a wow in space."
"you've got to be kidding me./me gives the thumbs down"
"fix the problem, don't tax the ships that contribute to it."
"no, i am not kidding you. by your elaborate and detailed post, are you indicating that the current unlimited growth of capitals is good for this game, or not?the people that have posted here constructively mostly agree on two things:- something must be done to promote conventional fleets over capitals. it's not just about titans, although they are a very tangible symptom.- whatever is done must not increase the drudgery of living in 0.0 pos + other logisticsi've exposed a way that i believe would work, some other people posted alternatives which could be workable."
"i think this idea looks good on paper, but would be difficult for ccp to implement without screwing things up royally. after all, ccp is not known for making subtle changes. they tend to take the \"hammer down\" approach and then see what actually survives the change they made.also, the op seems to think that alliances are deploying too many capitals and not enough standard fleets. i think this is true for the most part. but, i think he misses the root cause. the cause goes all the way back to that all time favorite: lag.put yourself in the position of the alliances. you can only bring so many ships to a fight before the system lags to hell. are you going to bring a few of the most powerful ships you have available to face your foe, or most of the less powerful ones to achieve the same goal?i think it is really as simple as that. ccp just needs to get off their collective butts and get some decently scalable servers and coding in. right now, they only have hardware scalability, and that is minimal at best. i.e. they can only scale the servers during dt. they have no \"hot\" scalability, hardware or software, at all. or rather, i should say the hardware ccp has is ok; they need more of it, but its ok. the real problem they have in scalability is because of the software they have. ms sql server is good, if you know how to use it correctly. the jury is still out on that particular point. but, python is abysmal, and was never intended for applications of this large a scale.now, many people will point out that ccp has tons of harware to run its game; more than any other mmo on the planet of the same size. this is true. unfortunately, all of those other mmos shard their games; while ccp remains emphatically dogmatic in their insistence to not shard eve. and when you take the geometric rate at which server load increases with the greater number of people trying to use it; what ccp has in computer power is a drop in the bucket from what they actually need. dont get me wrong, i think a non-sharded eve is the only way to go. i just think ccp is not prepared, has no plans to be prepared, and has never been realistic about how much computer power it actually takes to keep that many people running smoothly and lag free when they are spread all over the world.until ccp makes some real effort to bring the hardware and software side working together of eve into the 21st century, you will always be limited in the total number of ships you can realistically bring to a fight. as long as alliances and the players running them are limited to the numbers they can bring, they will always strive to bring the biggest, badest, ships they can muster. hence, the number of capitals in game is only going to continue on its current path.even if the op got some stiff \"maintenance\" costs put in the game on capitals, i don't really think it would change anything. alliances would just pay it in a effort to fill the limited fleet \"slots\" they have because of eve's lack of technical scalability with the largest ship classes they could muster.my two isk.p.s. yes, yes, i understand completely about pre and post server lag; no one has to remind me of that point. there is little to nothing ccp can do about pre-server lag; that is absolutely true. but, over half of the lag i encounter is post server lag, and i have the trace rts to prove it. therefore, there is a lot more ccp could be doing to help the situation that they are not doing."
"which is why i still suggest that capital ships be changed a bit from how they are now.1 get rid of their inherent \"99% cpu reduction to fitting uber-module\" bonuses.2 replace with the ability to shunt extra cpu from their supporting fleet.if you want to bring a huge group of titans and carriers, then you need enough cpu to support them mounting ddd and fighters and all that."
"why not go the other direction to solve the problem - make capitals harder to destroy.have them work in a similar manner to starbase guns. as they take more damage and move through structure, resists increase dramatically making them harder to finish off. at the same time, ship systems start to go offline making the capital less effective in combat:it's capacitor regenerates much slower if at all,weapons or drones systems go offline,repair modules are inoperable,until eventually it can no longer warp or jump.the pilot has the option to eject and save his capsule, leaving the hull for the enemy to salvage*; or to wait and hope for a regroup so that more friendly forces can arrive and restore him. after a given period of time the additional hull resistances fade and the ship can be blown up and looted as normal.*salvaged or recovered hulls can only be repaired using a mix of npc components, and existing capital construction components. once a hull reaches this state, modules are randomly destroyed in the same way as they are now."
"this idea is not new, it has been proposed multiple times. i'd like to discuss the benefits and downsides of it, and the effects it could have on eve. 1. classificationfaction warfare missions are the hardest missions might change with the upcoming patch and the ones with the highest risk to be killed by other playersmultiple gatejumps, mission-beacons. they yield a little more lp compared to usual lowsec missions, but since the lp can be only traded for items which can be bought in highsec lp stores, the profitability of this missions doesn't reflect their risk and difficulty.0.0 missions, which are often less risky due large mission hubs possibility to operate in one system, not using stargates at all but pay considerably more lp and have unique items in the lp stores, which make the lp much more valuable e.g. pirate faction implants or ships.2. proposalthe idea which people had since the beginning of fw is to introduce usefull = high demanded unique items in the militia lp stores, similar to the unique items of the pirate lp stores. this can be for example faction implants +6 or +7 attribute implats for something like 300k lp or other things such as faction capital ship bpcs etc. 3. possible effectsa the danger and difficulty of the fw missions would be reflected in the rewards, to keep them balanced with highsec and 0.0 missions.b people would join fw in order to do this missions and be confronted with pvp; fw pilots would have a chance to make some isk with what they are doing rather than having a 2nd occupation in order to finance the fw pvp losses.c pirates and pvp-oriented militia members would have much more targets compared to now, as this missions are hardly done at all at the moment.4. benefits of fw mission system for the allocation of rare itemsthe fw missions are a unique and well-balanced system: the missions can't be farmed with oversized ships e.g. a nighthawk can't enter lvl 3 missions, a crow can't farm lvl 1; there is a high chance of being attacked mission open for everyone due beacons by equal sized ships a battelship won't gank a cruiser in a level 3 mission, the missions are not hidden deep in 0.0 like the pirate hubs or complexes, where a few people secretly farm billions a day.it's a perfect system that only has to be filled with a good reward in order to bring more people into it and to animate the fw areas with new live and fun, while offering a balanced in terms of risk vs reward and fair allocation system for rare goods."
"i'd be jazzed if the lp stores would just offer t1 ships in militia livery. colors would be unique enough, they don't have to go overboard with it.dream sheet itemif they had a r&d style agents & points, based on rank/standing? that accumulate daily, that can be traded in for t1 equipment & ships to throw into the meat grinder. so that a poor foot soldier can afford the war."
"just tried to do an auction for the first time. i had a bid in. there was really no notice i got outbid.would be nice if when someone outbids you, an evemail is generated to inform you that you've been outbid."
"i never been a pirate but an idea popped into my mind which i like to share.first players need to become a pirate and to do this they have to get a certain security status, nothing new here. what is, is when players are a pirate they get points for killing other players. ammount of points is determed by the size of the ship and the ammount of sp the other player has. these points are like lp in high-sec and pirates can exchange those points for new stuff and isk. with every kill they make a bounty is raised which can be claimed by others.how to claim the bounty? the pirate needs to be killed and podded. the body needs to be hauled back to a bounty office found in empire. no body is no bounty killing a fellow pirate does not give those points but will give a security gain, a good way for a player to redeem himself"
"so open to alt abuse it is not even funny"
"no, the value of the points just has to be much smaller than the value of the kill"
"well.. when a bounty is collected it should go back to 0 isk. this way you can't 'farm' bounties. also, you need the corps to collect the bounty. this means the pirate needs to upgrade his/her clone to the current sp.also.. you arent much of a pirate if you don't have a bounty on your head"
"this!sometimes, albeit not often, its useful to have groups in space - it would become another minor irritation if groups in space vanished totally."
"i disagree with this argument. the only reason it is a problem is if you are monitoring the health of your drones during combat. from my experience with capital battles the only drones you really watch are the fighters as everything else is cheep to replace.i can see a use for the option to turn the sorting on and off if you are in a gallente drone ship or in a carrier that is not using fighters in your current fight."
"while the debate rages over the whether to nerf or not nerf nanos perhaps the answer can be found to intrduce a new ship type. say t2 bc to be effective against nano ships. the ship should have bonuses to small turret damage, range, and tracking. this class of vessel may be able to suppress a nano fit vessel to 50km yet given the small turrets be next to useless against conventional ships of the line."
"and inties are supposed to be the only real nano ships. sure, go and kill them for their purpose by using small turrets.it's the cruisers, and up that are a problem"
"what the op said"
"locking and deleting"
"shameless plug for my 0.0 agent ideato be used in conjunction with any highsec agent nerf. it also wouldn't be a bad idea to tie variable quality agents with fw areas if you're losing, the quality goes down; winning, it goes up."
"i'm what you would call a 'vet' as in veteran, yes, i tell the newer guys that yes, you should train learning skills. first, get a cruiser, and medium sized weapons, and drones lvl 3-4 so u can use them. then, train learning skills to basic 4, advanced 3, and the learning skill it self to lvl 4. then get a bc, and t2 tanking gear, and send ur weapon skills to level 3-4. train ur advanced learning skills to lvl 4 when this is done.at this point your learning skills are trained to a satisfactory level. now you can either get t2 weapons, and improve your general skills electronics, drones, ewar. etc.this means that you progress, so you dont get bored. you train faster, which makes you happier with the progression of your character.its not the fastest way, but its the best way for someone who is new to start playing. i.e. - they dont quit due to boredom. and they dont kick themselves later for leaving it too long.i've worked with alot of my friends and corpmates, even used evemon to draw up skill plans to help them. they are happily training along, deviating from the plan if for example, they need more cpu to online the last launcher on thier drake, they'll take a few days out for another weapon upgrades/electronics level.the system is fine. dont fix somethin that aint broken."
"making some people immune to pvp won't have devastating effects on the market, oh no."
"i have no interest whatsoever in your rl circumstances - nor anyone one elses who i meet in eve-0, and see no reason to make special allowences for them.harrassment is one thing, but an objection to harsh language.... please."
"oh lord yes."
"hmm didn't mean to post :"
"i believe it gives too much power to the defenders as a few people have stated.i also believe it will restrict travel further and make roving pvp much more difficult. small gangs and small corps will suffer while large ones will gain. due to more uncertainty it would be safer to take just a little larger blob etc etc. we need to move away from that not further towards it.while i appreciate that there are a ton of great ideas posted, and this initially seemed like one of them, many people seem to forget that a very large portion of the player base are not hardcore eve ninjas.while this idea would work for a small percentage of people living and working in nosec/lowsec it would further restrict those people who just like to dabble in pvp. to make pvp more than the opportunity to get hammered, you would need a gang with even more specialists than the current system. this invalidates pvp for thousands of players in very small corps. it also has a negative impact on newer players who's only intel is local! finally this idea would probably meet with the most whining ever! there would be far less targets as everyone would stay in systems they have good intel in until \"their probing guy came on\" and thus hardly ever meeting up with the enemy.a big no from me."
"i like it, as long as small corps arent ****ed, which i think you covered, i do certainly like it."
"respectfully, i'm not sure i agree. pvp already has some significant rewards in facwar - it's a lot more exciting, interesting, and adrenaline-pumping than \"how to dodge or demolish npcs within a specific ship constraint.\"ranks are given out for people who are willing to grind plexes and flip systems. killboard stats and loot are given out for people who are willing to hunt the plexers.there's a balance there.i respect that battleships aren't getting the use in facwar they might elsewhere - since they can get into only 25% of the plexes - but i'm not sure that's a bad thing, either.i've been playing for two years, and i've never put as much serious time and thought into the finer points of fitting a catalyst as i have in the last month... nor have i carefully compared the merits of the catalyst vs. the coercer, the thrasher and the cormorant, as i have recently. tightening the restrictions on what can enter a plex forces a lot more variety in ships entering the field, and dare i say it, even the faction frigs have a new lease on life. less battleships in plexes means a lot more fleet variety - and pvp'rs having to think more creatively means more fun for everyone.facwar is an excellent system, and there are things that might need examination like how defense of l4 plexes requires a naked atron, heh but i'm not sure the rank rewards are amongst them: plexers get rank, pvp'rs get killboard glory, and everyone has to fly something a little less common. win. :"
"the broken mechanics are not just about battleships, however hard you try to cover that up with your agenda.we are trying to fine tune the rewards that fw gives to all pilots involved. currently there is no incentive for pvp'rs other than a killmail. that is sad."
"edit because i was tired when i first wrote this and needed to clarify.-part of the issue is that factional warfare is an end game option for players, just like level 4 missions are the end game option for some players. corporations taking part in fw are similar to corporations in pvp alliances without all the benefits of alliance mechanics or the possible industrial corporations utilizing the space using the space you are defending. pilots taking part in fw are defending space on the behalf of an npc entity and thus can not 'highly' suggest the npc entity provide them with isk/ships to defend them.i would like to say that yes there should be rewards for engaging in pvp on behalf of a npc entity. the pilots are putting themselves and their 'property' at risk for the good of the npc entity and deserve some reward for doing so. presumably in 0.0 the pvpers defending industrial operations get a reward of some kind.i do not think the pvp rewards should be tied directly to the militia rank. the militia corporations 24th, tlf, stpro, & fdu have objectives they have laid out, complexes and missions and completing these objectives earns you standing with them and the militia rank. how many ships of your fellow pod pilots you killed is not a huge concern of theirs; they want you to defend their space and attack their enemies. as a reward for pvping i suggest a new decoration be developed that rewards pvpers, as you progress it provides an additional reward - possibly faction standing or maybe it should be militia corp standing and thus rank. the progression will be slower than capturing complexes.ace decoration idea:a decoration option for pvp - the ace.for example lets take the classic idea of the ace. each nation has its aces, these individuals may not be the highest ranks, but they are experienced combat pilots and are decorated for their contribution to the war effort. when a pilot is listed as dealing the most damage on a kill he is receives a confirmed kill, if the pilot participated in, but was not the main damage dealer they get .25 confirmed kill. this is only against opposing militia.rookie - 0 combat kills. the pilot has yet to be tested by his peers in combat.bloodied - 1 combat kill. this pilot has had a taste for combat, but not much more than a skirmish.veteran - 3 combat kills. this pilot has seen combat several times or been part of a major battle.ace - 5 combat kills. this pilot has made a name for himself. opposing forces should be wary when he takes to the field.multiple ace - for each successive set of 5 kills a pilot receives a 'device' that is added to his ace decoration."
"i agree with that system dex. set them to a threat level, and give them maybe lp's and standings, but not necessarily rank upgrades.. or at least slower rank upgrades.this would encourage the pvp'ers wanting rank, to also set aside some time to find and flip coins capture plexes."
"the kill board is not tethered to anything in game, i do not get isk for my kill board standings or get the option to buy new ships, it is not a reward nor a realistic means of ranking anyone, and the loot while fairly valuable at times is still not in any way tied to the way i am viewed by the militia i am a part of. i think that devs need to give rewards within the game for faction pvp kills, by rewards either isk per ship type or, and this is the more realistic one, points towards ranking up. i agree with dex but the only thing that bothers me is that come patch time plexers will have a bunch of new faction ships to purchase, while the pvpers who are taking part in the more difficult and unpredictable and many times more dangerous combat will not have the option to receive anything."
"i concur. rewards need to be given out for kills in fw. maybe lp based on size of ship or something."
"this is an important point, but giving the entire fleet the reward isn't fair, especially if everyone is spreading out. pvp kill rewards and some sort of plex sharing would help."
"i do agree with that, however i think that scouts, remote repars, and ewar should not be left out of the the loop as far as gaining lp."
"1. could we get a link to a dev post/interview/etc to this effect if there is any regarding those with already high militia standing receiving significant lp/isk/ship rewards based on their work to that point.2. those doing faction militia missions are currently the only ones gaining lp reward and thus access to those ships, but even then it takes quiet a bit of effort and collecting the loot/tags from the npcs in missions and plexes to get ships from the lp store.my current guess is that the lp for capturing plexes if any is implemented will not be retrograde. the 'advantage' that the high ranking characters will have is access to l4 militia missions, which no one is going to run because you seriously need 3-5 battleships plus various support 2 ceptors, maybe a few sniping hacs, some destroyers etc to make it feasible. plenty of characters with 0.00 standing with the militia corps can get access to those missions because they have 6.00+ faction standing.all that being said, it would still be beneficial for the game as a whole to include possible future corp or alliance decoration system, if pod v pod combat pilots could be recognized in some way in game.at this point i am going to give my support to the discussion going on because i agree that recognition for pvp performance is needed and it will hopefully close the gap between pve and pvp in fw.--- additional ideas ---have lp/militia rewards that require a mixture of achievements like contribute to 100 vp, be on 5 killmails against opposing faction, and 10000 lp. achieving any one requirement may not take much effort depending on your play style plex, roam/camp, mission, but achieving all 3 means you are taking part in the overall war effort.also would be cool to see decorations for corporations who show outstanding performance when it comes to supporting their faction. these might include campaign ribbons for performance in various regions corp achieves # kills and gets # vp in region, defense decorations corp achieves # vp and # kills defending systems of the sovereignty they are loyal to, offensive decorations corp gets # vp and # kills in opposing faction systems, and any others that could be come up with out of the data collected.decorations provide an opportunity to recognize the efforts a multitude of play styles and achievements in game. i suspect many players will work their butts off to get those decorations."
"/+1"
"very supported. at least giving us tools to see what went on on our accounts, what sort of access, etc. would be very very helpful. security works best when there is two-way communication between client and server."
"dear chribba,quit your job, go work for ccp.signed, everyoneps: just don't stop all the awesome you do with eve-files and whatnot."
"/signed"
"/signed.i cant believe ccp still has no features in this area at all. many years ago i used to play warcraftiii the rts. battle.net had a very simple feature, once you had signed in to the server, it would tell you if there had been any unsuccessful login attempts on your account and how many. not the perfect solution, but nevertheless, at least something to let you know if somebody is attempting to crack your password. this is significantly better than what ccp currently provides for account security, and this was on a game that came out over 6 years ago and had no real world cash -> in game benefit-fish"
"but your working off of chaos theory with the concept of 'balance' and game development. here are some of the laws:- no game designer, whether it's one or a thousand, can see the results of every piece of code and every usage of that code. this is the primary principle of hacking. with any complex coding, there will be unexpected events, and sometimes they will have no discernible reason at all.- the moment a game designer goes over six months without releasing new content, they lose gamers, as the game is believed to be stagnant and dying. not that it's a fact, but perception is reality.- any time you put thousands and tens of thousands and millions of players using a game or any code and program, they will push it to the very limits. designers can either allow these 'exploits', and change their viewpoint around them as what has happened with jet can mining, or, they can change the basic rules of the game to 'fix' the exploit.- you will never please everyone, as each player feels his viewpoint is the right way. every change/correction/addition you make will face more criticism from a group of people who are generally immature, pushy, and secure behind a wall of anonymity. you don't make players happy, you just try to give them a strong product.what your asking for? because of the reasons above, it doesn't work. the game is what you make it. you don't make the game."
"balance is an ongoing process, forevermore. to make balance easier they need to reduce the game to two objects and monitor them closely as to prevent the red item from gaining favors over the blue item. now tell me you'd pay for this.what i'd support here is a thumbs down option."
"a successful game does both at the same time - introduces new features in blocks while dynamically balancing mechanics for fair play. they are quite capable of doing both simultaneously, please don't prohibit their creativity."
"balance? play pong. we all know the right side controller won every game, anyhow. even it was unbalanced. i think it's a conspiracy."
"balance and content are worked by different teams. simply increasing the size of one team provides diminishing returns, even negatively affecting progress."
"i don't necessarily support this, but you guys need to clean up your arguments.t2 cruise missiles:-------------------launcher operation: 5standard missiles: 3heavy missiles: 3cruise missiles: 5cruise spec.: 1t2 large gun type rails are ranged equivalent to cruise missiles--------------------gunnery: 5sharpshooter: 5small hybrid: 5small rail spec: 4medium hybrid: 5medium rail spec: 4large hybrid: 5large rail spec: 1so, t2 rails already have more skills, and higher level requirements than missiles. ok, now lets add another missile/gun typetorpedoes:----------torpedoes: 5torpedo spec.: 1large blasters torps are short range---------------motion prediction: 5small blaster spec.: 4med. blaster spec.: 4large blaster spec.: 1gee, rather complicated to add just a second hybrid type. ok, now lets add another gun tree entirely:t2 lasers beam and pulse---------------------small lasers: 5medium lasers: 5large lasers: 5small beam spec: 4small pulse spec: 4med. beam spec: 4med. pulse spec: 4large beam spec: 1large pulse spec: 1its a tricky argument, problem is you can only argue within one gun tree, and missiles dont require support skills to get t2. not to mention some of you fail to remember that weapon upgrades and adv. weapon upgrades applies to both missile launchers and guns even though its in the gun tree.i can see how this would be a valid solution: maybe tacking on some support skills as additional missile requirements to get to t2 would be fair. messing with their ranks would be stupid because they are already on-par. and if t2 cruise/torp require standard and heavy missiles to train, then they should probably have their t2 to 4 as a prereq. like guns.edit: btw, this is without support skills. this is just to obtain, fit, and field the discussed weapon types. when you add in support skills you open a whole new can of worms in my book."
"if everyone wants to have missile training time increased then missiles should obviously be buffed to compensate for the longer training times.what most people fail to realize is what these skills grant. tech ii gunnery skills grant you a dps bonus through damage. tech ii missile skills grant you a rate of fire bonus that increases your dps by 1-8 at level 4. it isn't really that amazing, is it? a 2% rate of fire bonus vs a 3% dps bonus. i'd rather have each of my missiles do more damage then have to waste more of them to try to achieve the dps turrets are able to dish out.missiles are not the omgwtf op weapon systems people give them credit to be. they're hardly passable in pvp sans some very special circumstances, and they're only used in pve due to being able to choose your damage type, and yet caldari ships are still pigeon-holed into using mainly kinetic, or they have a wasted bonus.using missiles in pve is as fun as pulling teeth. they fly so slowly that it takes forever for them to get to their targets, you often waste an entire volley of missiles because they don't impact and do damage before you start to fire again, and all those missiles are lost. missiles tend to not always reach their target in the first place. their maximum range is a joke, considering that it depends on how quickly they accelerate. if they accelerate slowly then normal, they wont reach their maximum distance.yes missiles do damage no matter the range, but the weapon system's firing rate is slow, can be very unreliable as the ranges increase, and have to fly to their targets to do damage.turrets rate of fire is much faster. their damage is instant. once you get into your optimal, if you know about transversal velocity you'll be able to do some great dps.overall, turret systems take more skill points because they're more complex and more rewarding, while missiles generally are pve, and are stressful to use despite being mostly effective.also ever notice that almost every faction uses defender missiles? not every faction uses ecm vs turrets."
"ok, here's my take on it.i have two characters, one is minmatar and cannot use missiles just rockets.one is caldari and can use both.while it may be easier to train one single type of missile up to t2, it is not easier to train both the short and long range versions to t2.for instance: even if i trained up torps 5 while you trained large hybrid/proj/laser, you would only need to plug in the two spec skills to be able to use rails and blasters or arty/autos, beams/pulses. for me to use t2 cruise missiles, i would have to train cruises to 5 as well.also, i would have to train heavies, hams, standards, and rockets independently. so the facts are that it takes missile users longer to skill up to be effective, also missile support skills are longer to train.the real reason for missiles to train the way they are is because they are rarely a primary weapon system. take the typhoon for instance...are you telling me that typhoon pilots should have to train up through the projectile weapon tree, then train for every single missile type on top of that just so they can use t2 weapons in all slots? same for gallente recons and stealth bombers.try to think beyond your little world please and allow the rest of us to enjoy eve."
"i think all weapons systems should be exactly the same. lets just reskin hybrid turrets to look like missile launchers, reskin antimatter ammo to look like cruises, and have the exact same skills. now everyone is happy and identical."
"we can be cruel to devs, sometimes it can be warranted. one of the reasons for this is a lack of faith, whether well founded or not, that ccp are actually looking at the game from the same way we do.what id like to see is some dev's sent out into the wild and then returning with a series of dev blogs detailing their experiences and how they feel the game works. this facilitates more relevant and accurate debate around the shaping of the game.i'm well aware that devs play eve. but does the forum admins experience with pirating ever get to the dev in charge of balancing ears? and are all the devs working in balancing actually motsu mission runners? the hope is that we all might learn something.how: community and csm assemble a short list of corps representing all walks of eve life. csm approaches corps to determine willingness to participate. if the corp is happy a character is rolled up and joins the corp as a regular player character and not as a recognizable dev character to the rest of eve that is as it would be rather naive to assume everyone in said corp wouldn't know what's going on.dev spends one month flying with the corp.ia sign off on no wrongdoing during the period. character gets biomassed.csm interviews dev on his experiences, possibly in the shape of a live dev blog with player submitted questions.interview posted as dev blog including all information such as corporation flown with.we get to see how ingame play influences change, devs get to see how mechanics influence play, possibly from a viewpoint they wouldn't be able to otherwise."
"from what i've gathered over the years, devs tend to be more into the pirating, the large 0.0 alliances, and the large and small scale pvp.i guess the bigger question is if they have the same idea for how eve should work as we do. the answer is simple: even the playerbase doesn't agree with how eve should evolve. the developers probably all have varying opinions, too.the real problem is the fact that players get very upset when they realize that the game they love so much isn't theirs to design and build. devs work for a company, and as much as they love the game their own words, they also market it to a very broad audience and have lots of agendas and plans that don't make sense to the average player.when you realize that your buying a product, not contracting a service, it helps. it does for me, at least. when you buy a product, the product is made and you get what you get. if you don't like it, you either return it or throw it out.but when you contract a service, like paying a construction company to build you a house, you usually have some say in how the thing your purchasing will come out. we get confused with mmo's, because the pay-by-month gives us the feeling that we are contracting, which is false.your rights, as the consumer, is to either pay for the game each month, or not. so many forget that. sure, you can help them test out changes, you can profer ideas, but it'll never be your game to make and shape, nor any other players. only the developers, and the developers bosses.the idea you posted is sincere, i'm sure. but i'm also positive that the guys who code this game play it alot, and apparently, they cover the entire range of experiences from 0.0 to high sec. the only real advice i can give is that if it doesn't turn out how you like it, don't pay for something you don't enjoy."
"i'd love to see this in."
"if you saw what are demos in games such quake3 you should know what ninjaholic is talking about.it would give a great potential to fan movie making...but ccp can consider it as a threat 'cause players will be able to make better movies then ccp"
"this would give those who wont/cant use video capture soft/hardware a chance to create their own videos. also, this also allows for \"replays\" of battles people can study and thus, improve their battlefield tactics upon.it would also make for easier distribution of an \"epic fail\" moment of an enemy of yours. at least you dont have to compress a video of it and upload it to youtube which destroys the quality and viewing pleasure. you can just send the record data in an evemail or a shared upload website rapidshare... and everyone can watch it in full detail on their clients."
"if this was posted in \"features and ideas\" why is it being discussed as an \"idea\" in an \"issues\" forum? good job on the crosspost. gtfo."
"replays from the command central in ambulation where corporations can buy more video storage than the default setting for even more isk sink."
"and 2x higher optimal per ship class, got clue?"
"explosion velocity.just because the missile is fast enough to catch you doesn't mean it is actually going to hurt you.explosion radiusbig nasty missiles don't hurt small cute ships much.honestly people, *think*!"
"ok i take typhoon with torps will use torps on your crusier. will see how much volleys will kill you. i suspect around 4."
"okay.then i get to use a turret based battleship and see if i kill you quicker?*hint* i will"
"if missiles were impossible to outrun and didn't have those variables like \"explosion speed\" and \"explosion radius\" and would agree with you. sadly for us missile people, these variables do exist. so, i can't say i agree with this kind of nerf therefore.you're matari. a little fairy, i think on the eve-o boards actually, once told me that 1 target painter per ship in a gang using lots of long ranged guns makes nanos go away. sadly, missile ship gangs don't get this benefit and it's still partytime for nanos on them. so, while missiles don't get hit by weapon disruptors, they also don't get as much benefit as guns from tps. it evens out."
"dont see any issue here, optimal range of heavies from 80 km, gives the target way enough time to warp off before the first missile hits not even to speak about 240km cruise missiles time before it will hit a target.my experiences with missile in pvp is that 99% of the time the target pop-ed before my first missile did hit it because of the instant damage of the turrets."
"you can start using 'missiles' and 'overpowered' in the same sentence which you essentially did, just not in these exact words only after the missile velocities get boosted at least 3x fold. until then, at 80km range we are looking at 10-15-20 seconds flight time before a missile can actually hit anything. in any fight, other than a fleet engagement, any target would just warp off, unless he or she is asleep of course.and complaining about turret optimals is.. just.. wrong. a rokh can potentially fire beyond grid and beyond targeting range cap.tl;dr version:/no support for this issue"
"guns are affected by the targets transversal velocity, so if the enemy is flying from u away or to u, u can fully hit with guns.in such cases if u have big linespeed your missiles dont hit.....rebalance? : everything have advantages and disadvantages live with"
"erm missiles are supposed to be different to turrets, why would we want to make everything the same?"
"it's funny that you think this is a problem. the further a missile has to travel, the less useful it is. if you were complaining about their damage at a certain range you might have an argument, but as things stand you just look silly. more silly than some of your other posts even."
"where is being a **** frowned upon? you really need to look into your connection, you've got glitches."
"op is a goon. who in their right mind would believe anything that comes out of his mouth.on the other hand there is tons of \"remove jade\" threads all the time. if he is supposed to represent the eve community then why do so many people want him out of the csm?"
"wow. i see what you mean. you really do post in a way that makes people take you seriously. and may i say, it's what i've come to expect from the majority of goonswarm.windjammer"
"never underestimate the power of idiocy + internet anonymity. whoever was elected who wasn't the tool of x,y,z faction was going to get flamed by x,y,z faction in something akin to autonomous reflex.anyway this thread needs a lock. it was joke/parody thats passed its sell by date and has no relevance to the csm."
"no no, it has relevance in the \"pot calling the kettle black\" sense.they wouldn't be goonswarm if they weren't trying to ruin someone else's fun."
"/me golfclapsgreat attempt at a smear campaign. i mean, what the **** does it matter what a candidate does in his/her personal time/s in/out of the game? what, we're going to go dig a whole lot deeper and go say the player likes to have his peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwich with the pb&j on top of the bread like a \"sick sick ****\"?is he/she not doing his job? is he/she nothing but false hope and lack of action?jade has been neither as far as i've seen, though i wouldnt have voted him as first.in that respect, i wouldnt have voted for any goon to be on the csm either. i'd rather had a bod member on the csm if given a choice."
"i seriously hope a ******ed yes no shouting/voting contest on any forum, be it csm or another, is never going to be a serious factor when the devs try to improve the game. easiest way to ruin a good game is to give players too much power in balancing, since players tend to be self-centered, shortsighted and outright ignorant. some changes need to be made, no matter how vocally players oppose them."
"meh..."
"how would you engineer such a mission to prevent me from warping my mining fleet to that asteroid belt and mining it dry, before planting the beacon and completing the mission?would the mission reward be more valuable than the entire contents of that belt?would the agent have new code written in order to allow verifying that the belt does in fact still contain the spawned number of asteroids?"
"well, you could do that i guess. an interesting variant in that case would be to make it a decent, non isk payout given that it's a storyline mission for example, faction mining gear/implants. then, the agent could give the same mission out to other people with the stipulation that only the first active beacon would gain the mission rewards. there may even be a trigger on the reward timer so that you only have a limited time to drop the beacon from when you locate the belt.thus, it's in your own best interests to drop the beacon as soon as you find the belt as other people will be looking for the belt as well and might be able to steal the prize from you by dropping their beacon first.of course, if it proves to be to complex to code the mission in such a way you could have a dead beacon at the belt which automatically reactivates when a ship warps to it. it would be a struggle to find an in game reason for the beacon to already be there though, perhaps an ancient beacon on standby with a proximity sensor from when the belt was initially found centuries ago before the collapse of the eve gate."
"i had another thought that would really help the dedicated explorer ship.give the ship the ability to select how far to make a jump, up to a max of say 3-5 au. this way we could get proper probe coverage on all planets. make it to where it only works by jumping from a planet and also have it require an advanced skill. call it controlled warp, gives 1 au per level of jump per level of skill, ship specific. this would really add to the the explorer career path and the ship capabilities. then if they added more things to do in and exploration sites, would would be really having fun. stories that lead us to other sites that require a key to even find them from a previous site. anything to spice things up. why do only unknowns have escalation triggers? lets give more reason to be an explorer ."
"how does the old american saying go? i may disagree with your opinions, however i will fight to the death for your right to express them. that's not it word for word, but it is something similiar.this has been debated over and over and over. what it comes down to is personal responsibility. if you don't like the tv show, turn it off. you don't have to listen to something you don't want to, there is an ignore feature for a reason.yes i find most bigotry distasteful, but i would not in any point in time desire to control how people think or feel, or even what i believe they should be allowed to say. that brings the question who would even decide what would be allowed? what if what i think should be allowed is not what you think, or vice versa? who is right? you or i?if your brother is gay? so what? how does that make him any different from me that requires me to treat him special? you have a black girlfriend? does that mean you are any more special than me? why can't i have special treatment?i assume that even though some of my post is a bit sarcastic that you get the idea. forcing people to think or speak how you want them to does nothing but turn you into the same kind of person/people that many races, religions, genders, and so on have been fighting against for centuries."
"i hate learning skills tbh. i have v in all basic and iv in all advanced. also +4s in most of the time. yet those ivs bug me. i want to waste the two months training them despite the fact that i know they will not repay the time spent inside two or three years. argh!! also i think level v skills take too long, but i don't think that can really be changed now.instant +10 to all characters and refunded points spent on learning to spend on whatever we want would be a dream come true. of course this will never happen. a man can dream though... a man can dream."
"this.i don't care which way it is, but it should be consistent."
"latest dev blog... augh my god. nozh makes zulupark look good.the current comments thread is at ninety seven pages after three days. the against thread in assembly hall is at 30 pages. represent the community opinion.in most reasonable and knowledgeable people's opinions, the only needed nerfs are bringing polycarbons in line with the other rigs or the module equivalents. and perhaps some minor weakening of pirate implants or skirmish links. in any case, even if more substantial changes are thought to be required by ccp, this is totally the wrong way to do them. make small changes then assess their impact. changing so much at once is a total nightmare for balance, and is asking for truly legendary bugs.the proposed changes in their current form will:completely screw over minmatarheavily damage gallente blaster boats can't get or stay in rangemassively indirectly boost caldari missile boats as their missiles will hit almost everything.and finally leave amarr largely unaffected in their bugged locus-rigged battleships destroying everything within sight. the game will turn into who has the largest blob, with ecm as the one remaining wildcard.sub bs t2 ships will become largely usless.please get on at anyone in ccp that you can to drastically scale back or scrap these changes. we the real pvpers will love you forever. you will be the jfk of eve. :d"
"the latest csm meeting on august 3 has this as no.1 to meet/discuss about. go look.also, redundant post. 5 mins of looking at page 2 and 3 for it would have sufficed. heck, its still on page 1."
"sorry madam please add reasons to your assertions of consequence. you ain't a prophet."
"alright. i was venting a bit. i have made several posts in the devblog discussion thread about why the changes are overdone."
"i don't believe what the devs decide to test on the test server should be open to the senate's issue list.especially when:attention! the modifications discussed below are all subject to change, based on player input and testing experience.is the very first sentence in the dev-blog. i think jade is just going to further embarrass himself when he brings up the subject with ccp, and ccp's response is:attention! the modifications discussed below are all subject to change, based on player input and testing experience."
"good thing there is a 110-page thread of players input categorically stating do not want then isn't there."
"no that thread isn't feedback, cause most of those posts were posted before the changes went to sisi. and \"against\" isn't useful feedback.ccp will be looking at this thread for usable feedback, as they should.the speed rebalance has many different things rolled into it.-ship class speed adjustment, which is mostly a universal frigate speed/mass/agility buff, and some cruiser and above speed nerf.-general speed/mass/agility module nerf, to slow down max speeds universally.-mixing up tactics with the retinkering of webbers, scramblers, mwds, and abs.if you think for a second that all of this will be scrapped, well i think you'd be mistaken.if you think the csm is going to provide ccp with anything more useful than the info that is already being given by sisi testers, then i think you are mistaken.jade intends to use the thread he linked as evidence that 0.0 sov should be fixed before speed is addressed, which from what i've seen, very few people share that concern.for most eve players, things like speed tanks and ddds are much more important than pos shot mechanics. especially now with fw, more and more players are getting into pvp, and fw doesn't even involve the same type of sov, but speed tanks and un-trackable nano-tanking are major concerns."
"if all that ccp/csm ever comes up with is ship balancing then im going to get bored with this game before next year rolls around. tbh, if you don't like a ship, don't fly it. i would love to see much larger ship selections. and yes, you will have a few that are horribly underpowered and a few that are overpowered, but im sure someone will come up with a way to make the underpowered ship usefull. underpowered and overpowered is just a matter of individual perception anyway. i would love to see being able to choose between 5 hacs, or 7 bs, and more diversified ship classes maybe throw in some fun stuff like mine layers and interesting stuff like that.i think fussing with balance is futile really. balance should create itself, period its damn near impossible to make all sides happy, especially when there are always 4 or more sides to everything. i think it was excellently put about the \"eft\" warrior part. yes, your dps number may be higher than my tank number, but that doesn't mean that some other factor such as capacitor or even transversal wont play a role on how our fight goes. eve never was, never has ben a game of \"my numbers are better\" it truly is about strategy, placement, and who shoots first sometimes even shoots last constantly re-balancing ships makes it more of a number game and less of a tactic game. if it becomes \"i can beat you because my numbers are better\" then im quitting, because there are so many strategies to avoid this. if hac x and hac y are perfectly balanced then tactics, are pointless, yes they will decide who wins, but if hac x is 'less powerfull' than hac y, its a lot more fun to pvp in one of those because its more of a challenge.like the ferox for instance, everyone tells me a horrible ship, but i saw one the other day that took on 2 deimos and clearly had them beat just because he tanked hard enough to stay alive just long enough take one of them out of the fight. its this kind of pvp that most people crave, myself included. sorry for my long-winded repeating monolouge."
"this wouldn't be a problem if csm had sufficient forum tools and control to better organize things.this is generally why i suggested the whole tabled - prioritized - scheduled - addressed organization. for sure there are bigger fish to fry than the ferox not having enough pg, and if you had the organization that you should have, you could table the issue, give it a very low priority, and deal with the bigger issues first.making a council for different facets of the game wouldn't be anymore productive than having many csm teams having many more meetings."
"what do you suggest?edit: as in what kind of modules. creative names maybe. you have a really good idea but your op is too vague to get any response."
"i'm thinking along the lines of something like defender missiles, but a mid slot item. tracking disruptors affect all guns correct? so maybe something that will affect 50% dunno...just a number of missiles fired at you. and for the drones, something that knocks their targeting lock off, but is not affected by ships with bonuses to jamming, and only affects drones within xxxx meters of you less than 10,000.i'm horrible with names...."
"problem is that these aren't analogous to tracking disruptors. td affect an enemy ship, while your proposals affect everything hitting your ship. i see where you're going now though and these may work:ballistic counter measures - xx% increase in factor of signature radius of missiles fired at this ship opposite of guided missile precision skill. would be effective against heavy missiles fired at a frigate, but really wouldn't have much effect on light missiles hitting bs for example. makes missiles sometimes miss the ships they were intended to hit. could be chance based for all missiles that hit your ship 100% or 0% effective.drone disruption burst - similar to ecm burst: disables the offensive capabilities of all drones hostile and freindly for 20s. can still fly around and can be controlled by their owners, but can't fire weapons, use ewar, repair, etc."
"thats exactly what i was thinking about. maybe not as long on the drones, but other than that...you've got it.thanks for putting it down better than i could."
"think missles have been nerfed enough..."
"have you know a caracal or moa to be refferd to as a dps ship? while the thorax and rupture are?that's the advantage you pay for. carcals aren't useful for anything."
"the reason for this 'disbalance' is that turrets are racial guns while missiles can be used by three other races too. similar with drones.having missiles and drones same concept as guns would require too long training times to fly the ships to their full potential."
"ok, bump.even if new proposed changes to warp scrams go trough, that isnt a sufficient thing for gallente recons and eas. idea of sensor damps is to force enemy ships to close range where ideally your blasterships eat them alive. problem is that you can hardly push a unboosted bs under 20km web range, new scram range.and that optimal plus falloff on damps is insufficient to say bad things to sniper bses in fleet fights. ecms have crazy range, and will screw you up if they succeed, damps cant even compete in long range ewar.imho at least optimall plus falloff of damps should be increased, and maybe a minor damp strenght boost per recon or eas skill level.if they have to balance it, reduce normal tank and gank on these ships.edit. damps should get range increase period. but, while eas and cov op recon could use a damp strenght, if balance is in order perhups force recon could keep current damp strenght or stg."
"supported."
"supported."
"it's got my full support."
"supported, boost minmatar ffs!"
"so just started my path to training minmatar caps and i have to whole heartedly agree with the op. a cap ship should not be compared to roaming gang ships. they are for the most part stationary so all that matters is dps and tank. this is making me second guess if i should train for matar caps if i have to do a hell of a lot of training just to be told i will be primaried and killed first. and i am not exactly swimming in isk."
"considering i'm about a month away from my nid i'm a bit biased... but meh."
"/signed"
"i support this."
"name: widowhull: scorpion classrole: black opsblack ops battleships are designed for infiltration and espionage behind enemy lines. with the use of a short-range jump drive and a portal generator, they are capable of making a special type of jump portal usable only by covert ops vessels. this enables them to stealthily plant reconnaissance and espionage forces in enemy territory. for the final word in clandestine maneuvers, look no further.developer: ishukonemost of the recent designs off their assembly line have provided for a combination that the ishukone name is becoming known for: great long-range capabilities and shield systems unmatched anywhere else..caldari battleship skill bonus: 10% bonus to cruise missile and torpedo velocity per level and 20% bonus to ecm target jammer optimal range per levelblack ops skill bonus: 20% bonus to ecm target jammer strength and -96% to -100% reduction in cloaking device cpu use per levelrole bonus: jump drive is immune to electronic warfarenote: can fit covert cynosural field generators and covert jump portal generators.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------name: redeemerhull: armageddon classrole: black opsblack ops battleships are designed for infiltration and espionage behind enemy lines. with the use of a short-range jump drive and a portal generator, they are capable of making a special type of jump portal usable only by covert ops vessels. this enables them to stealthily plant reconnaissance and espionage forces in enemy territory. for the final word in clandestine maneuvers, look no further.developer: viziam viziam ships are quite possibly the most durable ships money can buy. their armor is second to none and that, combined with superior shields, makes them hard nuts to crack. of course this does mean they are rather slow and possess somewhat more limited weapons and electronics options.amarr battleship skill bonus: 10% reduction in large energy turret capacitor use and 5% bonus to large energy turret rate of fire per levelblack ops skill bonus: 7.5% bonus to large energy turret tracking and -96% to -100% reduction in cloaking device cpu use per levelrole bonus: jump drive is immune to electronic warfarenote: can fit covert cynosural field generators and covert jump portal generators.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------name: pantherhull: typhoon classrole: black opsblack ops battleships are designed for infiltration and espionage behind enemy lines. with the use of a short-range jump drive and a portal generator, they are capable of making a special type of jump portal usable only by covert ops vessels. this enables them to stealthily plant reconnaissance and espionage forces in enemy territory. for the final word in clandestine maneuvers, look no further.developer: thukker mix the thukkers generally favor speed and offensive power over defensive capability. while many of them could be said to lack technological innovation, thukker mix vessels are invariably the swiftest and most agile of their kind.minmatar battleship skill bonus: 5% bonus to large projectile turret rate of fire and 5% bonus to large projectile turret damage per levelblack ops skill bonus: 5% bonus to velocity and -96% to -100% reduction in cloaking device cpu use per levelrole bonus: jump drive is immune to electronic warfarenote: can fit covert cynosural field generators and covert jump portal generators."
"name: sinhull: dominix classrole: black opsblack ops battleships are designed for infiltration and espionage behind enemy lines. with the use of a short-range jump drive and a portal generator, they are capable of making a special type of jump portal usable only by covert ops vessels. this enables them to stealthily plant reconnaissance and espionage forces in enemy territory. for the final word in clandestine maneuvers, look no further.developer: creodronas the largest drone developer and manufacturer in space, creodron has a vested interest in drone carriers. while sacrificing relatively little in the way of defensive capability, the sin can chew its way through surprisingly strong opponents - provided, of course, that the pilot uses top-of-the-line creodron drones.gallente battleship skill bonus: 5% bonus to large hybrid turret damage and 10% bonus to drone hit points and damage per skill levelblack ops skill bonus: 5% bonus to agility and -96% to -100% reduction in cloaking device cpu use per levelrole bonus: jump drive is immune to electronic warfarenote: can fit covert cynosural field generators and covert jump portal generators.the jump drive immunity would allow it to jump into a cyno jammed system giving them the role of bringing down cyno jammers. also making them the hit and run battleships if hey can jump out of a system in emergencies. they would only be held by interdictor bubbles and infinate points."
"rock paper scissors."
"rock paper scissors."
"long live nano"
"i read countless of posts so far on this topici flew a lots of hours till todayi spend months of training timei lost millions of isk to nanosi lost another millions of isk in nanosagainst !<U+FFFD>taking away lots of gameplay fun *thx"
"this reall, really, really, really, oh, wait, did i say really sucks?signed.surely there is a better way to work around it, as discussed in corp, make a bloody scripted web, one with long range but low web and a short range with good web or something. don't knock down on everything ffs."
"againstfine get the speeds down a tad, but dont remove small gang warfare."
"the nano nerf can lick the hind of my ishtar's body which you can call its rear end."
"against nano mwd web scrammbler nerf"
"i support this. excesive changes at the same time."
"signed"
"i don't need to jump from a high building head first in order to know it's a bad idea. a basic understanding of physics and a wee bit of imagination will tell me what it will happen.i'd appreciate if you'd think before you post. thank you."
"against. this is a really stupid idea overall. you are removing the efforts of hundreds if not thousands of invested training hours per person and vast somes of isk that people have invested in order to be able to have some amazing ships which should be the right of people who have played long enough and invested a lot of real money in subscription fee's. this is just as r e t a r d e d as the carrier nerf and just as bad. maybe you should add new modules instead that work to counter nano set up's instead of nullifying people's hard fought investments.ccp = epic fail."
"against"
"against the nerf."
"against the nerf"
"against the nerf"
"i'm against it *as it stands now*. the changes are far too complex and far reaching for something that is just supposed to slow things down a bit. i'd be prepared to re-look at a simpler model."
"against!!"
"against"
"against!"
"against.test on sisi proved that this is not going to work. nerfbat at fullswing can kill the game in a single blow.recommend devs spend more than five hours to come up with a solution for eve's problems next time around."
"against the nerf!!"
"as it stands it's far too heavy handed."
"against!!!"
"signed<U+043E><U+043C><U+043D><U+043D><U+043E><U+043E><U+044B><U+043B>"
"against - skip this crap"
"totally against!!!!it will break the gameedit: forgot to support"
"i would suggest that the person that came up with these changes should play the game a bit, skill for a nanoship, earn isk for a nanoship and fit and skills and then go pvp in it for a bit and only then try to think about changing things after his vaga is killed to 3 weeks old raven or any other bs with hvy neut.there is no 'nano problem' it was created by people who don't know how to fit their ships!i'm strongly concidering quitting my 3 accounts if this patch makes it to tq. as many of my corpmatestotally against."
"the damn nerf was just too much to handle. not even a battleship can move at even decent speed armor fit + mwd. if this patch does go live...i'll still be around, but damn will it be boring.carebears need to adapt and use other ships to counter nano fit ships....it really isn't that hard.ccp needs to learn:1 do not feed crybabys it only promotes more whining2 instead of nerfing a type of tanking all together, they need to nerf certain ships down to a lower speed."
"against!"
"mega deluxe against"
"against!!!"
"remember to check the \"give your support\" box when making a post, or your vote really doesn't get noticed, or counted! thanks people.i already voted, so i don't need to do it again! cheers."
"against"
"ccp will ignore this, don't worry guys."
"against"
"against"
"against."
"against"
"lol."
"against.as it stands on the test server, a 3,800 m/s ship has been nerfed down to 1,800 m/s with the proposed changes. the clusterf***s in ccp want to decimate their custome base??"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"i dont fly nano but when battleships using afterburners are getting caught up in the nerf my navy mega lost 60m/s and my mach lost 100+m/s then ccp have gone way too far. if specific ships or modules have an issue then fix them but this indiscriminate carpet bombing of most of the eve population has to stop."
"i am full against thisthis makes me sad."
"against"
"against due to overuse of the nerfbat."
"against webnerf!"
"against webnerf!"
"against webnerf!"
"against"
"against webnerf!"
"against webnerf!"
"nano must live"
"against. the constant nerfs are getting absurd. the number of unintended changes incurred by altering so many game mechanics at once will be staggering.you say you want to reduce the \"ludicrous speeds\" on some ships, but have really implimented massive changes in speed and accelleration to every ship."
"against"
"plz plz plz plz dont nerf nanos, there are plenty of ways to stop nano fleets if people use there heads so there is no need to change it."
"the nerf is to harsh and to much of a change to the way pvp works, a change as big as this can completely break pvp as we currently know it and that isnt a good thing."
"<--"
"i for one am really dissapointed with ccp on this matter. i fly a multitude of ships nano being my ship of choice. it has taken me and im sure the rest of you a great deal of time to skill in this area. we pay good money to play eve and the way i see it this game is geared up for the bears in eve. ccp do yourselfs a favor and leave nano alone!!!! so yes i am 100% against the nerf.one last thing i can see ccp loosing many pilots if this nerf is bought into affect why are you fixing something that is not broken wake up !!!"
"against!"
"againstsmall gang warfare must prevail all this is going to is add to the blob warfare thats currently controling eve."
"signed"
"i'm disappointed with this knee-jerk reaction. i find it interesting that when people complain about nanos being overpowered and start telling their hard luck stories of encountering them, the last thing they want to hear is constructive suggestions on how to setup or what to do, to avoid a repeat. they seem to have accepted the party line that nanos are overpowered and need to be changed and won't consider that perhaps they also could adapt.the big blobfests are not fun. i fly them when i have to out of a feeling of duty to the team. the small fast gangs are fun and don't take such solid massive blocks of time. please leave some variety in the game ccp so that small gang pvp is still an option."
"in its current form i'm against the nerf, and until they sort it out i won't support it, and no i don't fly any nano ships because i can't afford them."
"nano nerf will kill all small scale pvp"
"nano setups unquestionably need rebalancing. its also quite telling to see the section of the player base most vocal in their \"moral outrage\" . nano should no longer be the \"i-win button\" it is atm, but these changes are too much ccp!"
"well i guess this means that we should all start roaming around in slow ass battleships taking 5 minutes to get through a system, meaning going 10 jumps there and 10 jumps back will take 2 hrs.oh btw i support this thread if you must keep nerfing stuff then please don't do to speedy ships what you did to the pilgrim give the ships that are meant to be fast a boost so they stay fast"
"gainst"
"against !!!!!!!!!!"
"i am against this nerf."
"against"
"againts. i spent the 1st year and half of my eve life maxing my skills 4 nano and have used this skill 2 progress 2 new ships that can b nano. this will b a major set bk 4 ccp if this does happen and seems there going backwards not forwood"
"/me is against this nerf. it<U+FFFD>s absolutly not needed and there are more imprtant things to fix arround"
"the current ratio of about 900-300 amuses me."
"against the nerf, keep it up boys"
"against, nerf just takes it too far and elimates nano ships as a viable option."
"against!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!11"
"against"
"up nano shipsdown chinese farmers!!!! anyway u will die in both case cos u're only noob!!! buahahaha"
"nano ships for ever \o/"
"nano nano, la tua mano...ops sry :anyway up for nano ships"
"voted"
"."
"against, the nerf to the nanoships"
"against."
"small ew shipselectronic attack ships cretad for satisfying goon requests.speed nerfed for satisfying chinese isk famer requests.what's the next? nerfing weapons, indestructible minning ships?vote no to ccp mindless plans."
"againstttt"
"against"
"against"
"no no no"
"omg no..."
"no. stop this idiocy"
"against"
"nerf nano and you will see an entirely new level of emo."
"stupid move imo. against"
"agasint."
"against it."
"nooooo"
"against it..."
"against"
"noo"
"wtb new devs"
"leave the game alone! its prefect how it is."
"leave the nanos alone!!"
"agasint."
"against"
"against"
"well i had fun for a month in my deimos atleast, time to reprocess? againts !!!"
"i hate nano***s, but im against the nerf, carebears need to l2p"
"against the nano nerf, learn to play"
"supported"
"against. people really should know how to use webbifiers."
"against the nerf. learn how to play."
"my god, 300 people and their 500 alts all voting against, go figure"
"against. if you don't know how to play or sacrifice a med slot for a web then don't play the game whiners."
"against !!!"
"i am against speed nerf."
"against !!!!wtb dev's with some brains !!!"
"definitely against this ridiculous nerfing !!!"
"think twice before speaking. you can only support the vote with one char per payed account."
"against !!!"
"totally against."
"wtf?! again matar nerf. never!"
"against !!!"
"against!"
"i just think this isnt as well thought out as it could be. nano gives people a chance to do guerilla warfare. eve needs some way to do this, we cant all get 100 people together just to raid enemy space for a half hour."
"against!"
"against!"
"not in this form."
"bring the noobs closer to highly skilled players,ahh how sweet,do us all a favour and leave the game alone for a few years........."
"against"
"wrong, the csm's just have a way of seeing how many accounts accually voted, and not characters.there is nothing that limits the number of characters you /sign in this thread with. since there are 3 characters per account, it is perfectly feasable for there to only be 13 pages of actual votes against this nerf. judging from the ammount of alts i've spotted where 3 people in a row look the exact same, or 2-3 in a row have the same name with different spellings. i'ld say this thread actually only has around 20 somthing pages of actual votes."
"against!"
"ohey mr bs ops for life!"
"against!"
"of course thats going to be exactly the same for the pro nerf thread as well so its something of a null argument."
"no speed nerf pls!"
"i only voted once their jade. though i don't agree with some of the parts of the nerf the dev mentioned i agree a change needs to be made."
"i am not against a reduction in the effectiveness of nano ships - for the longest time i did my best to make do without a 'nano' ship in small gang pvp and was quickly educated in just how impossible they were to do without.there are counters to nano, yes - but they are particularly resource intensive in terms of specific skills, modules and ships - much more so nanoing - they only lead down the slippery slope towards blobsville, which is not a place i want to go.what is needed isn't a broad nerf of everything nano, what is needed is a balanced consideration of what the problems are with the tracking, explosion radius system etc. as well as the more extreme ends of the nano scale, and a proper rebalancing.perhaps consider modules like webification fields, or remote area webs, just as there are remote area ecm mods.i support the principle of the thing - ridiculous speeds need to be brought back into line or weapons need to be properly worked out so that they still have some effect at speeds, but not the scale of the proposed nerfs, so i vote against."
"i imagine plenty of perfectly honest players only voted in this thread once too. point was that extreme frothers on both sides of the argument will multiple post with their alts as a general rule."
"against."
"against!"
"nerf nanos"
"against stupid design decisions."
"against."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"wow, look at all these alts!!! its too bad all the alts don't count :"
"against"
"against definitly !"
"againstsmall gang warfare must prevail."
"againstkill the blob"
"support"
"against."
"too bad you don't actually know how the voting mechanism works."
"and how many people in eve have more than one account."
"i think you'll tend to find the people affected most negatively will also be the most outspoken on issues.... the old business contengent, an unhappy customer will tell 40 people, a happy customer will tell 7.as for you tri guys, remember that time you were asked to run 1 battleship op and you revolted completely and asked that i leave the alliance.... or when super flipped out because i asked him not told him to cut back on nano, not altogether remove it from use.gee wonder why i asked him that, maybe this patch has something to do with it."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"i was just looking at the names of the people in this thread with a thumbs-up, and i thought i had accidentally fallen in to a macro mining boost thread."
"eve is a product, by a company, that tries to make money. your wallet is the only democracy there is. means: you have x accounts, you get x votes."
"i hate the idea, so i'm against it!!"
"i personally am for, and therefor i shall not tick the box to support."
"against the nanonerf"
"people play like this because it's fun...take the fun away and people won't play anymore."
"so people who can't, for whatever reason, play like that aren't entitled to fun?nice."
"i finish cruiser v in a few days!! no wai!"
"i am pro nerfing nanos generally, but against this nano-nerf. too heavy-handed for numerous reasons.for starters, try:- stacking nanos with ods and i stabs- make the polycarbon worse than the nano- nerf snakes- nerf gang bonuses i actually kind of like the bonus to agility idea"
"againstcuz i just trained nano lol"
"against"
"against"
"against.server speed first, ship speed later."
"voting for this."
"roaming in 0.0 will be dead at every fighter bombed bubbled gate camp.if people spent 1.5 bill and more on a ship and implants they should be fast."
"girls just want to go fast."
"i have a carrier pilot and as fun as fighter bombing is i just wanna go fast."
"against"
"against"
"typhoon = fatter then hyperion or baddon lolcerb = godanyways /support"
"against this nerf"
"it is too much. have a look at implants, polycarbs, and stacking, and mess around with speeds and agility if you want, but in its current sisi edition it is just too much."
"i vote against the nerf in it's current form."
"for what it's worth"
"against"
"against"
"while nerfing polys/snakes some wouldn't be a bad thing, this is way overboard. the entire minmatar race is nearly useless and webs are useless even officer webs got ****d for no reason. please rethink this, as a significant portion of your subscriber base is saying \"these changes are horrible.\""
"peach chan punch support."
"which bears the question: are all players being equally represented by thisand the other thread? or is this threads success contributed to the people with the most to lose stomping their feet and throwing a fit in an attempt at retaining a gameplay advantage that is largely considered extremely unbalanced?has there been any proposals to require player voting at login? it seems to me like at this point thats a very valid way of determining what everyone thinks not just those that troll the forums from work and those that stand the most to lose"
"against"
"i think this makes my point quiet well. even if every post in here was against and every one of them was a single account than this current quantity accounts for .55% of the active accounts of eve. not a \"significant\" portion by any means."
"against"
"/signed this nerf takes everything i like about this game and throws it all away."
"/signed"
"this nerf is blatantly ******ed."
"my sig is even more true than before....against!"
"against. by a lot. not well thought-out and extremely heavy-handed. clumsy even."
"against."
"think this change has been very poorly implemented."
"against"
"against"
"theres noway ill continue to play this game if the sisi changes are put on tq. -3 accounts."
"nerf is too drastic and nerfs way too much all at once. start with polys or something and go from there, we're players not beta testers and 0.0 small gang tactics can't really be tested on sisi anyway."
"get my vote.the fact that this thread is so much longer than its sister one speaks volumes. there are numerous suggestions that would've been much better in sorting out nano combat. perhaps listening to some of the more intelligent forum posters might stop you getting fourty-two page threads going against your proposed ideas ccp?"
"i support this, despite the fact i'm currently station camping a particularly annoying war target"
"i mostly like the present changes even though i did not consider a nano-nerf necessary."
"supported!"
"for."
"could lead to interesting times. i'd like to see how it goes."
"support!!!"
"yes."
"welcome to calmari online!"
"supported!"
"how many of you have even logged on to the test server and really tested all this out? i'd like to know how many of you are just being ******ed and going ''omg yay nano nerf'' instead of really testing this out and seeing how much it really effects the game."
"support"
"/me supports this."
"yes, i agree with it"
"support!"
"nerf it"
"good thing"
"."
"nerf it!!!now!"
"i support the nano nerf."
"edit:having looked at the changes in a bit more detail, many people are right in saying that these changes will certainly not help small gang pvp. therefore, despite any benefit to me from the nerf, i retract my signing.../unsigned"
"support!"
"i support this."
"great idea. can't wait for it to be implemented."
"support"
"supporting this. mostly because it's about time and the changes so far on sisi are looking quite good."
"support. bring back strategic play."
"that nerf bat has amazing tracking , even the nanos can't escape \o/ support"
"if ships can go so fast that it threatens to break the engine, then it's necessary to do this. and remember, warp scramblers have less range than a webber so it's not as bad as some people might think it is."
"support !!!"
"bring it on"
"support. in the current implementation, mwds are a \"must have\" item. abs currently have no place in pvp, and this proposed change gives them a place."
"i support this development."
"support. and i checked the box - so it's support from a smart person."
"support 100%.the changes from what i can see will bring ships generally into line with each other, and balance some previously broken modules/skills to the level where your choice of ship and fitting will be greater than \"nano or anti-nano\""
"thumb up"
"vive the nerf."
"i am for some sort of nano nerf. ships exceeding the speed of assault missiles, floating out of range after being dual/tripple webbed or doing 12,000ms is lame and broken.hacs were mean't to be tier 2 afs. the speed thing just sort of happened as far as i can tell. guerilla warfare is important to the fun aspect of eve.. we can't afford to lose that.. but guerillas don't come through 20 armed soldiers ie: gate camps to get there.. they sneak in the back way using other routes, black ops, etc. hacs should not survive a huge gate camp as someone tried to argue. hacs should not move at 12,000ms either. a dual or tripple webbed hac should not still be outrunning assault missiles. that needs to be fixed.nerfing the hac to the point where a 300mill ship dies to a couple of drakes is wrong however. its armor/tank should be able to get it out before there is much risk of death.in favor of nerf.. but only if done well."
"jojo"
"support!"
"a bit overzealous but it's about time!!"
"i'm all for it, nano's are way too overpowered, especially when you go beyond t2 frigates."
"supported, we overcome and adapt, overtime eve has had many rebalances in many areas, ppl grumbled and cursed but they soon found new ways and tactics, lets make teh game balanced for everybody to enjoy"
"two thumbs way up, thank god for the return of the af's i love those ships."
"yo"
"support"
"of course. eve will only be better and more fun for everyone, not just the elite few."
"support"
"i support highly."
"i support the action points. i dislike the god module formerly known as the warp scrambler  it shouldn't get 2 point scram, low cap use and turn off mwds . i also think this should coincide with a change to jump bridges not working in cyno jammed systems, moon harvesters processes going outside  atleast partially  of pos shields and black ops being beefed up and working in cyno jammables.if it goes live even if balanced ship to ship wise the overall mechanics will make blobbing and sniping the default supreme choice."
"/ signed..."
"support"
"first they came for the caldari,... but i was not a caldari so i did not speak out.then they came for the carriers,... but i didn't fly a carrier, so i did not speak out.then they came for the nanoships,... and there was no one left to speak out for me."
"yey!"
"/signed with the wife's blood"
"vote for nano nerf!"
"pro.if they have a look at blasterboats which could get problems with tracking/getting close enough.bye bye vaga o/~~"
"great stuff"
"great stuff"
"+"
"support"
"great stuff"
"yay for some more variety"
"say no to nano"
"support"
"great ideas in the devblog."
"local = no suspensekill local, give us scanning tools. make flying around in space meaningful. let us use the entire system for combat instead of just gates/moons/stations."
"i would like to add my two cents to the proposed changes to manufacturing of t1 items. in my opinion, the proposed changes would over complicate the game and take the fun out of it. i say leave t1 production alone. i don't want to feel like i'm back at work instead of playing a game. in my opinion, t2 production is overly complicated to the point where i just buy the t2 items off the market. just to let you know, i'm really big into mining and i do make some items in the game. i don't want to have to train up skills just so that i can make the same item i did before. i have so many other things that need to be trained as it is. no need to put in skill training time sinks. ccp, if you make t1 production as nebulous and complicated as you have with t2 production, you will have made things too complicated for new players and for some of us non-hardcore industrial players who don't want to spend hours at a time trying to figure out how to build something out of components, you will have alienated us as well.think long and hard how you plan to make industry more \"interesting\". i have no qualms with adding a variable into the mix to make modified items but you should not touch the existing method to building items. over the course of time, the game itself has gone from a simple premise to being overly complicated in some respects that it's beginning to force even industrial players to concentrate on just one industrial aspect of the game. complicating things to pander to the elite gamers is not a wise decision and could possibly cost you in terms of subscription numbers later on down the road. keep the game fun- for the most part, us casual gamers don't want to need a degree in engineering just to play the game."
"the introduction of new skills to enable us to use t1 blueprints will unduely limit new players, and be a very solid kick in the teeth to existing industrial characters when they suddenly find they cannot use 70% of their bpos.this is a very bad idea.why?crafting in eve is already annoyingly complex, now you want to introduce more items and techniques into the crafting mechanic to create things that are already in the game, have been for years, and functioning just fine???if it's a rig that's attached to a specific ship... then it's not a rig, it's just another ship bonus as we already possess, unless you're suggesting that this 'rig' is put into the manufacturing process and built into the ship?conversely, why not have all ships recieve their bonuses as a 'control module' that is manufactured with each ship but can then be removed the control module has it's own db entry, thus removing the bonuses from the ship. it can then be plugged into any other ship and transfer the bonsues from the first ship to the second.these would be the bonuses, not basic ship details such as base drone bay size, mass, inertia, or what-have-you. it might give the new ship drone damage, or increased velocity, or what-have-you added to the new vessel's basic stats.new skills yet more and more new skills... i would have to say no, please, no new skills for existing content.and adding another layer of 'must build this and that and that and this other thing' just to build a shuttle is unduely complex, upon a system that is already extremely complicated."
"envy."
"setting asside the various arguments about investment or who controls prices, you essentially have a class of item that unlink other nerfs, kept it's advantage for those who already had them.this is an oddly and to some irritatingly unique situation for eve. normally when something is nerfed or removed it effects players across the board. for example the recient change in torpedoes again, setting asside any positive or negative comments about that change, all torps were effected, not just newly produced ones.now, combine this with past accusations of t2 bpos improperly making into some alliance's hands and you have something that really looks like 'don't take away the advantage of our friends'.so, why would some path for new t2 bpo creation be beneficial? because it gives a path for the up and comers to access content that, at the moment, is becoming increasingly inaccessible and thus only open to a few. this is already a problem with null sec resources and other things that are already monopolized by older groups, and this is a pr problem. so even if the mechanical benefits are low, the pr benefits are significant.though perhaps bpos should take datacores as part of thier bill of materials or something to keep balance there and this would apply to all t2 bpos"
"easy... competition... if we both have to buy the parts, i can't compete with the owner of a t2 bpo if i am using invention and the resulting t2 bpc's... if the bpo owner never researched the bpo, it's 0/0 to my -4/-4... costs me a lot more... i spend money on the decrypters for ships or time to get the data core to try to invent a bpc... i can build 10, he can build a lot more he spends some time and researches the bpo, he can get it to +x/+y and make them faster and cheaper still i can never get it past -1/-1.now someone will say \"that bpo may have cost billions of isk...\" sorry, it does not wash, the bpo cost nothing but time and luck... the lottery gave them away free... that someone paid billions for the bpo does not mean they got a good deal, i can go to some used car dealer and buy a \"classic car that runs well\" for a large chunk of cash and get a car that is neither a classic or even running the next day... airlines buy fuel on the spot market, fuel prices go up, they pay more, down, they pay less... or like southwest buy the futures and pay the agreed rate when the ticket is due... if the price of fuel has gone way up like now they look smart... had the bottom fallen out they look like fools... if you paid a billion isk for a t2 bpo that is only worth 300,000 then you are a fool, if you paid 300,000 for one worth 1 billion, you are smart...making more t2 bpo's available, via the invention/r&d mechanics, would make help foster competition."
"possible, but absolutely not from bpc.you want to try to invent a t2 astarte bpo? very well, put together 3.200 gallente starship engineering datacores, 3.200 mechanical engineering datacores, 1 brutix bpo, start invention and wait 2-3 months. you will have the standard t2 bc chance of inventing. so the inventor would be investing about 1 billion at current prices with a 25% or so chance of success. a astarte bpo then would be priced at about 4 billions. seem a reasonable system. i would prefer a system with higher costs and time requirement but guaranteed results, but this can be an acceptable alternative. inventing bpo from bpc isn't."
"i picked up my copy us bookstores are not carrying it of jim rossignol's book \"this gaming life, travels in three cities\" today and was reading page 36 where he refers to quake wars<U+FFFD> when it dawned on me that eve is missing something it needs.the hardcore cadre of eve players who live and die in 0.0 are feeling their needs unmet in a critical area. we crave the excitement of massive fleet engagements. war on a grand scale. however we've learned to be happy with smaller engagements often referred to as \"roaming ops\" or just purely \"roams. we've been forced to be happy with these smaller battles because of game mechanics resulting from a hardware/software infrastructure that cannot handle the large scalability requirements necessary for such massive and epic battles.these are the stuff of legend. the war defining battles consisting of thousands of ships on both sides. the battles where people say i was there and it was crazy, it was insane, but more importantly it was fun! this is one of the most incredible aspects of eve; that we can put so much on the line for what we believe. that we can risk so much to have those pure moments of being in the zone swathed in utter gaming fun. eve needs these wars just as surely as it needs a miner sitting in solitude sucking veld from the vacuum of deep space.the epic battles continue because they are now a necessary escalation of the warfare in eve that must be observed by all sides of the battle, however they are more work than fun. they have become long drawn out monotonies of screen refreshes, a patchwork of lagged out clicks usually resulting in an existential departure of your character from their fleeting life as you are either dead and just don't know it yet or rather worse sucked into the wormhole of a node crash. rudely sitting at a login screen unable to rejoin the battle consumed by anger knowing that your comrades in arms are dying and you are helpless to gather again and help.you've yes you ccp created this sandbox, armed it to the teeth, told us to pick up the weapons and openly encouraged this escalation in warfare in eve to the point where we see battles nearly daily and weekly that dwarf the engagements of the past. and yet they have become less a valuation of thrilling fun and more a required necessity of being a part of something bigger. multiple titans and mothers, hundreds of capital ships, thousands of battleships and legion of support ships all fighting the primary enemy, lag. fleetingly they are given the opportunity to fight each other between the server's graces. they are now as much loathed and begrudgingly attended as they should conversely be desired and sought after. we want to experience these massive fellowships of destruction and redemption to define the destiny of eve and our own pilots.fix this above all else  make massive fleet battles fun again, remove the lag, remove the limitation of the current game mechanics from being the deciding factor in these most epic of battles! let the victor be determined by the skill, fortitude, sheer luck and decisiveness of those whom wish to engage in this most holy pursuit of the chaos of eve warfare.give us warfare back on a massive scale and make it fun again."
"^ what he said."
"nobody wants these limitations, but i'm not what the point of this post is. i mean, you're basically saying \"hey ccp, fix lag and lag generating mechanics!\" which isn't exactly something they haven't heard before. good post though."
"i keep wondering why we all assume that ccp ain't racking their brains to do just that. they do play this game too, you know."
"/signed seems everything minmatar is bottom of the pile now"
"introduce access logging for corporate hangars and ship maintenance arrays. now, i know that ccp approves thievery, but currently finding a thief in a 200+ corp is almost impossible. a thief can steal without consequences and stay hidden for years. there should be some ways to find and punish him. access logs will not prevent a theft, but they would insure that there are consequences. also, thieves will be more likely to pull large scale heists instead of milking the corp, which is fun to read on the forums"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"is long overdue actually"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"0/"
"1.0"
"you should not be able to see other people's personal contracts."
"hey, i'm bloody tired of being roaming around 0.0 and getting spotted in local chat. those ratters whoever shouldnt get free intel of my presence by just watching local count. currently, everyone just warp out of the belts or log off when they are endangered. removing local has the equal nerf to pvprs and pvers, since both of them would have to relay on scan results, and therefore everyone would have to work for the intel, not to get it for free."
"so long as a windows are built into the hulls of stations, and b scans are automated complete with a ping every time a new target entered scan range, this would be fine. otherwise, i see no reason to force players to wear out their mouse buttons by hitting the scan button every two seconds whenever in space."
"this idea is crap."
"the result of this idea on the long run is a 0.0 even more empty that it is right now. that won't give you any more targets to shoot at. no support from me."
"the number of targets is not the point, but the issue that those potential targets are not reachable currently. they can just **** off if they have the brain to warp out. is that complitely alright with you? do you think they earned the intel?"
"dont like the idea but it gave me an idea for a new region where this non-local chat could be created.a region where no one shows up in local till they talk in there, no numbers of members in space are shown, systems that cant be owned, no stations, no pos systems can be placed.where the belt rats can come in frigs or in dreads  all race type rats where you can find all the riches in ores, good scannable complexes so a region with high risk and reward, a real wild wild west region"
"the only reason you know that the current ship you are about to scan down is actually a player is because you see him/them in local too. have you earned that intel? if local was not up, you might see 1000 ravens, all with different players name, oh, and a force shield if you have that on your scanner. so you have to move around, yes, hit, omfg, new force field.by jumping in to a system, you get free intel on how many ships there are possibly ratting there, and therefore can exclude sertain ships/areas where ships are and find him easier. you get the same, if not more intel by local. scanning would be a nightmare simply because a simple sollution for them to counter your no local plan is to drop 200 frigs in space, or shuttles even, next to every celestial in space. good luck finding anything. besides, people that doesn't watch local you catch anyway, we do it all the time. there is a few really smart and quick reacting characters out there, and those you will never catch, as they rat in such a way that even if you pop up right next to them they get away."
"[issue] remove peoples who wants to remove local"
"well, it takes skills to scan for ships in belts or planets. what you say about using ejected ships as beacons is already being used by many and the only way you can know wether its a killable target, or just a ship at pos, is to scan the directions to know if its at belts or not. this tactic can be already used, and many ratting alliance have set their posses up with assload of ships to make the scanning more difficult, but your scanning skills matter to make sure if they are at the pos or not.. not the count in local. the local count helps to make logical assumptions about present ships, but as i said it would be hard for the pvers and pvprs both to map the situation of each solar system with out local, so i would concider it a fair nerf. if you are roaming same systems all over again you would get to know which of the ships in scanner are just beacons and which not. at least from my experiences if i run the same route for 3rd time, i already know most of the systems pos ships and i don't have to waiste my time trying to figure out if they are piloted or not. it takes time to get know new places, the habits of the people in the new places, and alot of skill in scanning. i have been practising scanning for over an year now, and i do get the results of a ratting battleship within 10-15 seconds most of the time. then add the time it takes to warp to the target and all possible lag, the final time it takes to arrive to your target is somewhere around 20 seconds minimum up to 45seconds. in this time every battleship can warp out, and those who didn't look at local will do it next time."
"genius notion...make local a \"recent speakers\" channel instead of an \"immediate\" channel.then no one has a clue who is out and about, unless they happen to speak. which most spies shouldn't be too chatty, if they are smart."
"local as an intel tool is flawed. it's too easy, it's too simplified, it's perfect and cannot be countered, and it ruins small unit warfare.fights happen at gatecamps or stationcamps, because there is no other way to come upon a target, without being exceptionally lucky.like every other point of the game, gathering intel on who is in the system around you should be an active task. local and map intelligence, though, is free and simply too powerful.i know the arguments: it'll ruin the game. but that isn't true, and even deep down, you know it. it'll take away a cruicial tool that players are exploiting, true, but even i won't agree with removing the tool and not giving players some way to replace it.a local scanner with ping is perfectly useful. maybe powerful enough to scan your grid. that way, someone can get in system and warp to you, and you don't have a couple minutes headstart in warping to your safespot or throwing the cloak.i fully support this. local is an exploit that we have been required to use for far too long. i think it's time ccp fixed it."
"also, i don't believe in removing local or statistics from low and high-sec systems. just 0.0. give the players modules and anchorable objects to replace it, but not nearly as all-encompasing. i mean, why can a corporation see everything that's happening in their enemies systems, from twenty jumps away? just seems lazy to me."
"oh jesus, here we go again."
"supported, gonna need it with these changes if you actually want a reward/risk ratio in 0.0, obviously you will need some sort of tool that shows you numbers in space for an area, or on a delay since 0.0 is mostly empty.instant, free intel for anyone paying attention to a little window is not the way to go though. even a 30s delay on local updating would do it."
"you know theres something called probes, duh. you can easily see if ships are stashed in a pos. even better drop 100 cruisers in system, i'll probe them out in one scan, and just collect & sell. scanning / probing system would need some tweaks tho."
"if you want to play without local then do so, simply minimize it, let us know how that works out for you."
"needs sorting, more so now speed ships that are about warping quick are going down the tube!scan results = only ships with pods in xit will require you to actually do some work when ratting/mining tbh. if the are 2 of you, one can keep an eye on the gates while the other rats. hey, might even require the ratters to 'defend themselves'. people will work together more, ratting in teams etc...anyway, what its worth.... i am for the idea.however think it should be a constilation channel. if you have a cycle of 10mins, then it makes sense the gates are recording your movements knowing you have entered and left the area recently. as well as highlighting your actually in the system due to jumping through the gate.then you could introduce hacking gates.... knowing your hostile has recently left, you can hack gate intel to know if he left via that gate or not."
"agreed, but there needs to be some way to gather intel on star gate usage. this"
"causing an exodus form 0.0 to empire may not be your goal, but that's what will happen with local gone.earning the intel isn't what matter, tought you might say paying attention to local is earning that intel. what matter is what for a ratter, refreshing the scanner every 2 seconds is for too tedious to be viable.i'm all for nerfing macro-farmers, but it must be done by affecting their cloaks, the delog timer, or maybe the align time. not local. you can remove local as an intel tool when it's replaced by a passive, reliable proximity intel tool."
"i lub cs..oh wait .nevertheless, i'm looking forward to the day when i don't have to fly around in a freighter"
"we recently got war dec'd by a 1 man corporation, obviously an alt ceo, the main character would remain out of the warring corporation until the moment he had one of us cornered, then would immediately log on the ceo, accept the app, and the guy would instantly be at war with us, attack his intended target, then immediately dock, and leave the corporation once the fight was over, in doing so, completely evading the aspect of being at war, where both sides can engage each other freely.i petitioned it, and recieved the answer that joining and leaving the corporation is not against policy, i fully understand this. i have no issues with people wanting to join in on the action, and joining the corporation, or getting fed up with war and leaving the corporation, one or the other, but joining and leaving the corporation specificaly as a tactic against the enemy, so that the warring targets were completely unable to engage you except when you wanted, i find this to be a exploit. this is on the same lines as other tactics already named exploits, engaging a player with black ops and jumping out to avoid concord, killing someone and managing to survive concord, as well as ejecting from a ship while a non-combatant boards resulting in the engager to be concorded, all are already exploits. and im sure there are more on the same lines i dont know about. all these tactics named exploits use the same functions, using legitamate game mechanics to avoid other rules and consequences of the game. its not illegal to eject or board a ship, its not illegal to jump systems, its not illegal to dock or cloak, yet these same legitamate rules, when used in a different way, are exploits. its not illegal to join, or leave a corporation i understand that, but when joining, and leaving a corporation for the specific intentions of avoiding war targets until your own choosing, i find is an exploiting tactic, and i ask that it be officialy made a exploit, or rules implemented to help prevent or aleviate such tactics.let me reiterate, i have no problems with combat, war, and the likes. i would fully support a full war with a person. but the tactic of joining and leaving a warring corporation specificaly as a tactic against the enemy corporation, i find discraceful, and on the lines of a exploit. one simple way to help eleviate this would be to include a timer in joining a corporation. much like it is if you have roles within a corporation, once joined, roles or not, you would not be able to leave the corporation for 24 hours, the standard waiting period for many things. to add a further penalty to this, a rule could be implemented so that a player leaving a player corporation could not join another player corporation for 24 hours note, moving straight from one player corp to another is not effected, except to not be able to leave for 24 hours. although one could simply log off and wait the 24 hours, it would remove the ability to instantly join a corp, engage the target, and instantly leave the corp thereby being no longer at war with the corporation, and avoiding the standard rules of being at war. to sum things up, the current ability to hunt people as a neutral, join a warring corporation at your own will, engage the target, and instantly leave the warring corporation and be instantly non-hostile, i feel is a exploiting tactic, using common and legitamate rules to navigate around other rules and penalties of the game.i ask that rules are implemented to prevent such tactics from being used, and / or this tactic be named a exploit. thanks for the time."
"yep, this is just dumb. 24h joining or leaving delay could be added to corporations/alliances that are at war? call it \"concord paperwork holdups\"."
"totally agree with desert viper. warring corporations should have something that prevents the same players hoping back and fourth. it seems like it is a way of avoiding combat as well as killing and then avoiding combat. this should definatly be looked into and should be called an exploit. a timer for players join and leaving corps should be instituted. it would make a totally better gaming experiance and prevent players from doing such things. also another scenario is that the particular person who is leaving or getting kicked out of the warring corporation gets engaged by the enemy corp in high security space. now this person decided to leave the corp that is at war at the exact time he is getting engaged. suddenly the enemy corp members are engaging a neutral becuase perhaps he got kicked from the corp or accepted a ready application to another one. this means they get concorded... now you tell me if thats fair.ccp needs to look into this."
"1 cant leave or even be kicked a corporation while in space however a application can currently be accepted while player is in space, one of the key parts to this tactic 2 once engaged, 15 minute agression timer against those that engaged him** edit : i see what your saying michal, leaving or being kicked from a corp while in space is not possible, but applying to a new corp, and having the app accepted while in combat with the warring corp would change the players corporation, but then the 15 minute agression timer comes in, those that were already engaged could continue to engage until the timer ran out. those that were not already engaged, i hope they have their concord warnings turned on"
"i am for the petitionable/bannable offense as changing the corp joining/leaving rules can create problems."
"i totaly agree, this problem could be solved so easy, just by adding a 24h cooldown on joining/leaving a corp/alliance in war."
"i agree with desert viper"
"i agree with you desert viper, this is a total exploit"
"not crap. i support."
"...that is only for bastards lola 24h time out would be great. and i like the name \"concord paperwork holdup\" lol"
"exploit. i mean seriously, you wait till the last second to get into the wardeccin' corp and pop whoever you found on the alt then leave?where's the risk/reward there?i support a 24 leave-only penalty."
"rofl - i find it funny how carebears first opened this tactic up by corp hopping to avoid wars, and are now having it used against them for easy ganks albeit not the same people. if you do remove this, please also remove corp hopping to avoid wars. thankyou."
"i support this"
"i have come across this similar behavior as well. i believe this tactic definitely rides the fine line of an exploit as desert viper states.here is the hypothetical situation:[players]:corporation a 1 person corp; hq based in high sec spacecorporation b hq based in high sec spacemember amember b[tactic]:1 corporation a declares war on corporation b. now after the initial 24 hour cool-off period, both corporations can attack each other without concord intervention2 corporation b, member b is off mining in a belt in high sec space3 corporation a ceo logs on and accepts membership from a player, so now the new player to corporation a is member a4 member a proceeds to destroy member b5 corporation b sends a squad to hunt down member a6 member a \"leaves\" corporation a, so member a is no longer a wardeccd target7 corporation b has no method to retaliate against corporation a8 member a rejoins corporation a and repeats step 4-8 when convenient[issue]:from"
"i hadn't thought of that before, but that is actually rediculous. clearly an exploit!"
"24 hrs is too long, it prevents the quick recruiting of pilots in a legitimate war; what if ushra-khan minmatar rp alliance needed to quickly move lots of pilots to their alt corp in factional warfare? the problem is not the application process it is the entire war declaration system. no support."
"can't you not join or leave corporations unless you're docked? if this has changed then it's definitely a problem.however, leaving a corporation at war is a different story entirely. i don't think it's a tactic that's good for the game, but recipients of a war declaration need a better way to defend themselves, as obvious by the fact that they use this tactic to begin with. i think that two mechanics would help this problem:1. allow concord to be bribed by the recipient of the war dec only one time to delay the beginning of the war for up to a week at a significant financial cost. 24 hours is generally not enough time to prepare a corporation for war unless it's expecting one2. create a mechanic that allows a third party to buy in on a war-dec, allowing mercenaries to participate in a war without paying the declaration fee if they have the blessing of the defending corporationa little carebeary, i admit, but the fairest solution to the problem i can think of that will effectively discourage corp-hopping to avoid wars."
"i am behind desert viper 100000000% =]"
"yup sounds good"
"something really needs to be done about hopping from and within a warring corporation"
"actualy kazuma saruwatari its worse than that, the actual guy that was doing the killing would fly around, find his targets, and could easily be sitting right next to them non-hostile one minute, the alt ceo logs on, and instantly that dude thats been sitting next to you for a couple minutes is now a war target, shooting you. now keep in mind this could very easily happen with any number of players. so theoreticaly any dude next to you could instantly become a war target with the blink of an eye. using alt scouts in empire to aide in war has always been used, but thats not the issue at hand. and about the joining / leaving a corporation, you can have your application accepted while in space, the main factor in this particular tactic is having the application to the warring corporation accepted right when your about to pounce on someone. so joining a corporation can happen wether docked, or undocked. but leaving the corporation currently can only happen while docked. even the ceo can not kick a player from a corporation while the player is in space, unless hes logged off in space."
"got it. add a step to the application process that forces pilots to be docked up to join a corporation:1 pilots applies2 ceo or director accepts application and sends offer3 pilot docks in a station and accepts offer, immediately joining corporationi always wondered why this wasn't the process. it also allows pilots to send out multiple applications, wait a week, then pick the corporation they like best."
"fahtim meidires that used to be the case not too long ago, it used to be a 3 step proces to get into a corporation, exactly as you said. apply, accept, accept offer. they streamlined it not too long ago, bringing it down to only two steps, apply, accepted."
"what was their rationale other than one less step? any reason why it should be reimplemented?"
"that i dont know, i personaly am glad they streamlined it, makes things easier, although reducing steps in one area is bound to open up loopholes in another, so its a balancing act, one way or another."
"crack down on this exploit asap."
"i agree with above :"
"yar, i disliked corp-hopping already, and we in tnt recently experienced a similar incident where a wartarget quit corp on jumping through into our gatecamp, hoping to get us concorded by attacking him."
"this is using game mechanics in a way that is not intended.this is an exploit.solanthus lightbringerdon't get mad.get even."
"easy fix, make war declaration a per-player flag.a: your corp gets war-decced by another corp. immediately all members of your corp and theirs are flagged, individually, as being at war.b: one of your corpies jumps to escape the war... no such luck, he still has the war flag for the duration of this war cycle 1 week, no matter where he goes or what corp he joins this flag does not transfer to the new corp.c: an unknown joins the corp that's at war with you is flagged as thus, and this flag remains with that individual even if they jump corp as stated with b for the remaining duration of the current war cycle.this fixes many warfare loopholes."
"this is a fantastic idea. op idea supported, and props given to mister xerox for a nice addendum."
"this issue is such a no-brainer that i am surprised the op had to even ask for support. this tactic is practically the text-book example of a clear-cut exploit."
"the sad part is that now that this has been brought to into the light you will see this used like mad until ccp officially announces it as an exploit or resolves the issue."
"something needs to happen"
"ah what the hell./signed."
"it's not just the greatest scandal in eve he exposed, but quite probably in all western mmo's history. this may entitle him to some special consideration, though not an outright pardon, especially considering his further actions.his banning was, as best as can be determined, carried out before his various untoward actions were. he could quite conceivably be reinstated as a token action, and then be re-banned for his later actions. as it stands, his banning is the very worst public element of the t20 debacle, i've lost more than one eve friend because they lost faith in ccp, and it delayed my return to the game by about 6 months. punishing whistleblowers is incredibly foolish, it causes immense damage to public and internal trust, and there are very good reasons the real world has laws protecting whistleblowers.tbh ccp came very close to actual illegal activity, defrauding 'a deception deliberately practiced in order to secure unfair or unlawful gain' the part of the player base not receiving dev-friend-help by suggesting that everyone was on an equal footing and that in game money or other recourses were required to acquire various items, thus gaining ccp money by making those player pay for their accounts longer to acquire the isk to get the items.this was not only hidden by ccp passively, but actively when people attempted to reveal it, and those actions have gone without consequence.i support a general appeal system for bans. i support the t20 incident receiving renewed attention, specifically from the csm, with ccp revealing such information as was hidden/deleted from the forums at the time to them; if necessary in closed session."
"in the current incantation of the titan dd, especially in conjunction with jump bridges and cyno jammers, i do feel a change is needed. i do not want the dd removed from game, i only want it's effect tweaked.right now, a dd is a solo player capable of whiping an entire fleet off the map with a button. yes it is dependent on the fleet not being able to flee. yes it is a very costly ship, but it's been shown that the value of the dd on top of all the other bonuses of a titan is a bit high.solutionchange the dd effect from damage directly to a ship to what would essentially be an astronomic em burst. this would affect ship systems and potentially cause overloads in ship modules. it would cripple a fleet for a limited time w/o single handedly destroying said fleet.effects:25,000 damage racial still47,000 base energy neutralized boostable with skill10% chance to cause 40 heat damage to ship modules possibly link this to a skill20 second warp recalibration for all ships effectedenergy neutralizer reasoning this would give minmitar/caldari a new role in fleet combat and diminish gallente and amarr slightly in fleet warfare. it would also criple mwd effects on fleets trying to escape bubbles and would act as a good harsh effect titans could dish out. cap ships in siege/triage and immune to ewar should not be affected by this, or it should be heavily diminished effect to prevent titan spamming.heat reasoning: again a fleet crippling measure that could also aid to bring in the age of t3 modules. 10% would effectively remove 1.5 modules average from battleships on the field. i do not have issues with this working on cap fleets if it were again diminished effect, say maybe 2% chance while in siege/traige.warp recalibration reasoning: including the titan, this would prevent ships from just instantaneously leaving the field of play if affected giving the friendly fleet a small window to warp in and being the fight at an advantage... this would not prevent alignment and would basically create havoc for people trying to mwd up to the titan for a bubble."
"i kinda like where you are going with this .. but what about racial variation?also, you would either need role bonuses for certain ships, or an alternative method of mitigating the effect, so that ships which can currently tank a dd have some increased resistance.needs much work, but an interesting jump-off point."
"maybe reduce the actual physical damage of a dd to add the racial element... maybe 10k damage base.keep in mind the titans already give a bonus based on their racial element... ie amarr and cap, caldari and shields."
"interesting, but i think racializing it is a solution too. my first inclination is to base them off the recon ships - amarr get neut-100/second, caldari get jam30 points, all types - or perhaps bring in scripts, gallente get a bubble, and minmatar get a huge web-90%, even after the web nerf. make them have a good-sized duration on them, measured in minutes - which of course also requires the titans to stick around instead of running - though they should only affect those who were there when the effect started. i like the idea of a fleet leading with a titan or 10, ddding, and having everything else follow to lead off a fleet fight. include some damage, maybe, but not a whole lot. and let titans use siege modules, to allow them to actually have the wherewithal to stand and fight and use those gun bonuses instead of being a useless target once the battle actually starts."
"i love to \"think outside the box\", even though i hate that phrase .. my little twist to this whole topic thought, is...... what if the titan super weapon was defensive in nature?just a thought"
"/bump, can we get an update?"
"i didn't get the chance to fly much of recons till lately. i've been putting that off for too long and one day, decided it was time.but onto the things that matter, i flew both arazu and lachesis, they are very similar boats, but require a tad different play style because of the different slot layouts when you go about fitting a boat. the arazu have to look at spare cpu to fit the cloak, while lachesis have to conserve pg for a plate i fly plated lachesis, sue me.same goes with curse and pilgrim, they are somewhat similar boats, but two different play styles are required. curse, most ppl just throw overdrive injector, nanofiber and polycarbon on if they can afford them, whizz around the field while neuting the target down for the other nano ships to do the damage. while with the pilgrim, more adept as solo hunting and shadowing cloaking in a hostile system to prevent enemy from ratting/mining, it cant nano well because of the lack of range.people are saying that the pilgrim needs some love is because they can't nano it. cant hop in on it go get some kills and get away with it.im saying the pilgrim is fine. ok... well, except the tracking disruption part.if you want to nano the pilgrim, buy corpum a-type medium nos and neut isn't that what the devs implying? spend a load of isk to get the same result is 'imbalance'?, they got the range of 19km. oh, and you'll be faster than a nanocurse coz of the 5th lowslot!leave the pilgrim alone. do something about the script!"
"how do you get teh thumbs up?"
"obviously you have never flown the pilgrim. you are missing the point completely. all other recon ships have similar range bonuses but the pilgrim. sure you can spend extra isk to put dead space nos on them... but your neuts will won't be able to reach. since nos was nerfed your post is probably one of the most stupid posts that i have seen. i personally love the idea of having the range/amt bonus as one. if not that then i would love to see something added to the pilgrims tank since it is supposed to fight in web range unlike any other recon.stabby mcstabbins"
"i lol at pilgrams.....fix em please!"
"pilgrim needs some love for sure."
"i like the cap bonus idea, keeps the pilgrim in the shape it is and not changing the roles it has as a sneek up fighter, good call mate./signed"
"my view is that titans are the ultimate expression of power just look at the shape of them and should be dangerous ships worthy of fear. however, the doomsday is silly and has no place in eve when you consider that it ends, in a moment, what could have been a great battle between many players. as mentioned there was an hp boost because people died too quickly which makes the addition of doomsdays a bit perplexing.i don't care for the idea of changing titans into mobile stations as i think we have enough pos's and stations lying around 0.0 and it doesn't really inspire... anything.some ideas:*remove the very broken doomsday device because it does not promote interesting game play.*reduce the range of jump bridging, but preserve its personal jump range; i see titans as combat ships not logistics taxis.*give titans a special 5-minute siege module that allows it to have greater than dreadnought dps/tank with the same tracking and movement etc. penalties. also, allow it to be remote repaired, maybe with some kind of cap penalty, while in siege.*give them the ability to use bombs like stealth bombers, but enable them to be fired to mid range.*no drones, no fighters, no more lag bots!overpowered? underpowered? crazy? i don't know, but it could be fun. i want to see these ships on grid, holding their own, and not dying the second a blob looks at them, but without having to fear my ship *and* fleet will pop in a flash when they warp in."
"well, i wish your comrades would say the same about the nano-nerf, as nano's are also hard to overcome.... for tzarailsa it seems too hard.. maybe you need to help her a little."
"ooh... nanos are bad... when you're facing them. but titans are perfectly fine... when they're on your team?"
"the critical titan saturation point where they can ddd capitals isn't what people should be worried about. the critical point came long ago, when it became trivial to field enough titans to destroy fully tanked hics. combine that with decloak-and-ddd, driveby-ddd, ddd-before-you-load-grid, ddd-before-a-fleet-decloaks, cyno-multiple-titans-to-one-bs-and-ddd... the only titans that get killed are the ones that are fielded alone. it's almost unprecedented to kill a titan if you're fighting more than one of the damn things, and the more there are the harder it gets. but the more you have, the easier it is to get more, since they're a wonderful logistics tool as well!it's a horrendous positive feedback loop that creates a downward spiral where 0.0 warfare gets progressively less and less fun. now, removing doomsdays entirely is a massive change, but what else can halt the spiral?give titans smartbomb range and damage role bonuses, then remove dd?getting near a titan and hic-tackling it would still be damn hard, but you don't have the stupidity that you have now, where everything subcapital can be made totally redundant by four titans. and that's a fairly low number for some alliances to field."
"nope, my corp doesn't have any titans, and except getting a ride with \"steve\" in ascn once i've never had any benefit from any titan.imho titans should not be nerfed in the way the op would like it.i would like to see some changes:as a titan is a strategic asset, ccp should try and skew . for example ccp should put incentives in place not to use titans to triple dd a roaming gang. proposed solution: firing a dd should cost significant isk 500 mio to 1 bio isk. a number of titan pilots could still do it - for sh*ts and giggles - but it should not be the 'normal' thing to do.i like the suggestion of using a script: a 100 km radius where a dd does 50000 k damage or a 250 k radius where a dd does 10000 damage. something like that. alternative 1 could be combined: a 'rolling' dd would be nice, you get damaged quicker than 15 secs near the center of the blast 10 sec but maybe up to 30 secs at the outskirts. seeing the blast rolling towards you while you scream your ship to get into warp is cool.this could well be combined with the following: the titan needs to launch its dd on a friendly. so you have to get the friendly to a location where he can initiate a kind of field to which the titan pilot can release the blast. the blast ball expands from the field in a rolling fashion. the field protects the friendly. of course there is a 2-3 sec delay in which the friendly has to open the field. if the friendly gets jammed or killed he can't open the field. a game of cat and mouse ensues. what i like about this is that in a lagged out environment the use of dd's to 'clean' the field gets more difficult. if your field captain gets lagged out and thinks he opens the field at the enemy location, but in reality didn't make the warp, titan could dd his own fleet.in short, bring some skill and teamwork to the dd weapon, make that it isn't used frivously but can still be for ****s and giggles against our poor nano-nerfed exceed gangs if you want to cough of up the cash to see us suffer . this requires the 'nerfwand', not the 'nerfhammer'."
"reading comprehension ftw"
"as far as i have seen most problems occur when 2 or more titans enter the field. 1 ddd is survivable 2 in a row are certain death for any ship sub capital. thats the reason u wont see them on there own alot. so i would agree with the persons earlier. titans arent support vessels in my eyes they are the ultimate destroyer of worlds its shoudl stand pround in the frontlines and lead its fleet to glory and not intended for geurilla warfare  aka lets doomsday these guys warp to a safe pos and jump out when we canmake it pointless for a fleet to have more then one on the field with removing the abality to set of multiple ddd in sequence to simply kill all in sight and move on.why not give it command bonuses  it is the flagship isnt it?letting it deploy as a stationary object with expanding shields is a great idea but should be considered more of secondary purpose. like a safe place away from home without hauling in an entire pos. in htat mode let it use up lo just the same as a regular pos and enlarge its shields to 10 km around it."
"the ability to dock with a titan is probably the most useful ability it could have, and fairly feasable to pull off as well. docking would work in a similar fashion to storing a ship in a pos array or a carrier hangar, but when you dock, your view becomes one with the titans. ie, you get a camera drone and can look around the vessel, view the map, etc as if you were driving the titan itself. jumping would work like a jump portal: all docked pilots would transfer with the titan and reemerge on the other side still within the titan.a market on the titan would be limited to an \"in station\" view of all \"for sale\" stuff within it's mighty hold. yes it would need a seperate hangar but it's big enough, yes? a window seperate from the actual market perhaps? a seperate database for all saleables on the titan and a query for each titan would fix things up a bit.one final idea: drop the doomsday and give it point defenses manageable only by docked pilots. think pos defenses, but in large numbers and not quite so powerful. these would be special modules for high slots on a titan, and each one would represent several such point defenses.of course they would vary in size and power. smaller for frigate popping, med for cruisers, etc.one big fat thumb all the way up."
"yeah pointed that out page one"
"i am wondering lavista,are the changes that are allowed to be processed by the csm, only changes that can work on the current game design and mechanics tech wise?because you are trying to say it is the core design of eve that does not allow us these features? well buddy, think again, and think hard before you answer again in an epic style fail like this one.you would be amazed if you'd actually take the time to talk to a design team about features before you reply like this, you have no clue what can and cannot be done in a design. guess what, you only think that it can't be done, simply because it goes beyond your comprehension.no, this is not a troll, it is me saying that you shouldn't be wrecking ones idea just because you have a lack in imagination in, and do not know enough about, either game design, networking and coding."
"the devs stated that we couldn't scoop pods or transport other players because of session change issues, and that was years ago.unless they have re-written the core code around that, then he is probably right.unless of course you have information to the contrary?"
"i certainly hope that in ccp's effort to imporves the game performance that they can begin to offload clients who are not actually on a grid to different servers. so people who are in station are on a different server than those out in space in a system, although they can all see the same local chat. if they do that essentially the problem with pods docking up with a titan goes away:essentially:system a is where the titan is locatedsystem b is where the titan is going to move to soonsystem a is on server 1system b is on server 2titan dock is on server 3so when someone docks with the titan they session change to server 3, when they undock they session change to whatever server the titan resides in. for clarification, obviously servers will be hosting more than just a single system or outpost, it would have to be fluid i think ccp is working tword this so they can have multiple servers handle the load of a single system, and dynamically add and remove servers to a system in order to gain higher processing power when needed. but this is just speculationso if the titan pilot session changes to a different server, everyone who is 'inside' the titan does not do a session change at all due to the fact that they are going to be communicating with the same server until they undock. the only difference is now when they undock they will load server 2, which is hosting system b. personally i want to marginalize the aoe weapon of the titan, and change their offensive system into something more fitting with the rest of the games design. generally a ship in a game is best suited to go after its own type of ship. introducing a titan sized weapon system, and changing the doomsday operation skill to titan weapon operation simple rename and introduce the new modules into the game. then on top of this change them into things that can be deployed as a mobile outpost. i think it would be neat to see a titan being used to help battleship pilots to pull out new battleships from a titan to continue fighting. although in my honest opinion, most of the titan problems can be addressed with pos mechanic fixes and lag handling fixes. expanding on the outpost idea, titans should be able to 'deploy' they initiate an emergancy warp, and then deploy in a safespot with a pos shield to protect undocking ships. on top of this guns deploy out of the titan to target any hostile ships that come on grid. this pos shield is run by consuming a new type of fuel which its elements only comes from 0.0 ice mining. when the titan undeploys it keeps its shield up and emergancy warps back to where it came from cannot be tackled at this point and then the shield goes offline just as it enters warp. when a titan logs out it automatically enters this outpost state, if it isnt fueled it loses its outward shield and can be tackled as it undeploys. the titans shield can be reinforced in which it burns 4 times the amount of fuel per hour. pilots can only undock when the titan is not in warp. if the titan is destroyed, all assets in it are destroyed as well. any clones are moved to the players corperation headquarter station, any players logged out inside the titan, lose their clones. all jump clones in the titan are destroyed as well. something along the lines of that would be pretty cool, on top of all that when the titan deploys the titan pilot can get into a ship he has stored in the hanger and use it without worrying about someone stealing his titan."
"load balancing techniques would make the capability to move pilots around trivial.it shouldn't be hard anyway. pilot docks at titan, throw pilot into list, titan cyno's out, tell all pilots on list to session change. done.i know bane said he thought it probably not feasible and really just didn't want it to bring in more issues to the discussion but it's not a hard problem. for a real mobile station type asset to exist and be valuable as well as presenting some really fun opportunities for roaming around space with a mothership as a base of operations, the docking behavior is a requisite.not only insanely cool, but also very fun."
"any fans of the homeworld 2 game might remember the dreadnaught that you get later in the game. it had something like a targeted ion beam as its main weapon. maybe something along those lines? a module that is fit to the high slot of a titan that doesnt use any 'fuels' edit: maybe some kind of ammo should be added - but takes significant cap to operate.it should maybe work kinda like the nos does now? or maybe have the damage depend on the targets sig radius... unless its 'fair' to have the titan able to insta-kill anything it gets a lock on.i dont know exactly how it might work, but i'm deffinintly in agreeance that the titan as it is now needs to change./siggy"
"simply put... terrain effects and weather but on a cosmic scale.magnetic storms, solar flares, dust clouds and such having an effect on game play. your scanner or probes giving crappy readings? the magnetic interference from an orbiting dust cloud is your issue.need to sneak up on someone in a system? wait for excited solar flare activity to mess with their sensors and you might have a chance.from hiding nice exploration sites to expanding the dimensions of combat in eve, the terrain should finally have an effect. tactics, system dynamics and various other variables could be added into the game to expand almost all parts of it.just and idea.thanks for reading."
"i'm all for more \"space\" stuff in this space game...which is why i suggested storm chasers a while back."
"i think that tactical environments could provide a lot of opportunity to create more differentiation between size classes of ships.environmental effects based on a ship's signature radius could be used to create situations where a frigate isn't instantly destroyed by a cruiser, for example. specifics would take some time to hammer out though."
"i can imagine a nexus cloud that is only a couple a grid big. when a ship comes into this cloud, his 'sensors' are limited to about 40km max. something could be right in front of him, and not only can he not see it on his screen, but he can't see it with the overview.storms that do create sensor copies on the overview, or affect tracking. clouds where weapons are useless, or that act as a naturalized webifier. clouds that take you off the local channel, but also prevent you from communicating.from flares as you have mentioned, which are random occurances. solar storms that can actually be tracked across systems. nebula clouds which can be searched out using probes.want gurilla tactics? there you go. hit and run, droping back into a hidden nebula cloud and effecting what appears to be a 'log-off'. system capture points within clouds that make it nearly impossible for large fleets to engage effectively in.so many options. course, the dev team asked us some two years ago to come up with ideas for these types of things. seems like all we got in return were clouds that did damage over time. sad."
"you could also link this in with blobs... sit 100 ships in the same place for too long, and an ion storm will develop emcompassing the entire grid and/or solar system due to all of the warp stabilisation fields interfering with each other. if the ships don't move, the storm just gets worse and worse over time, until it starts to instapop smaller ships.it would be great to see some weather effects to be mined or chased for certain minerals or other tasty goodies, while having others simply appear in space as annoyances!here are some thoughts off the top of my head:i like it!"
"i'll support this, some new dynamics would be nice."
"cool, but none of these auto kill clouds unless they move really, really slow.."
"does not want more random db calls. no support."
"supported.i'd like the chance to duck into a star's corona to escape a pursuing ship's sensors... i'd further like them to take damage, for flying too close to said star. i'd call that elemental, wouldn't you?"
"allow us to do it without having to jump into them again. its annoying and ive got no idea why this was removed apart from to **** folk off."
"not an alt but i like this mans idea"
"yup. why was this ever changed, anyways?"
"wholly agreed!why they ever took this out makes no sense whatsoever, and it was never announced in patch notes, either... a 100% stealth, um, nerf? what'd it nerf, anyway? it was just a surprise kick in the gonands."
"are we discussing making mining more interesting or how to solve afk mining??to make it more interesting is a good thing to make mining more active could also effect the afk miners though mining is one of the bases of eve's economics and changes here could affect the prices very quickly"
"as has been discussed in gd earlier today, members of csm are maybe impotent. this is terrible if true. if it is true, the mental suffering that such a problem can cause would definetly cause a loss of focus on ones csm duties. to solve this problem i propose that ccp give all csm delegates and alternates free viagra during their terms. i think that this would cause all members of the csm to be better able to focus on the task at hand.of course i realise that some of our delegates are femaleon my interwebz?!?, they may elect to take the viagra or not, or to pass it on to a significant other. i say this cause to date there has been no studies done that prove conclusively one way or the other the effects of viagra on female psychological sexual dysfunctions.p.s. ccp please make sure it is viagra and not cyalis that you provide to the csm, since i only own stock in pfizer, inc."
"aha"
"just because a single thread exists in general discussion, it does not immediately mean that the proposed issues are actually real. do you have any information other than forum tinfoil to suggest that the csm is actually impotent in any way? you don't have that information because it doesn't exist.first of all, two of the 9 csm members are female. they are less likely to be incapable of bearing children, and i believe that infertile would be a more appropriate term for describing their status. not that the details would get in the way of forum whining.second of all, have any developers stated anything regarding this issue? due to the prevalence of alts in eve i don't think that normal forum posters are reliable sources regarding the virility of the 7 male csm members. i would be willing to seriously consider this issue if someone such as ccp eris discordia or ccp saint were to comment on this issue, as they are the only ones who could have reliable personal experience in this matter. as far as i'm aware of no members of the csm are homosexual, though the members of goonswarm may be suspect by certain parties.please, use your brain before going on a whine-fest in the assembly hall."
"it took me 5 times to actually post this post.but i think this is a good idea. how much does viagra go for, on the black market? hopefully it can give me enough to buy a fanfest ticket!"
"hmm i knew i should have included the following emoticon at the end of my op:p"
"that and a whole lot of hookersedit: make that p0rnstars"
"are there icelandic p0rnstars? does iceland have a **** industry?"
"i know this topic is very popular, but still i would like to post my own vision of titan in this game. basically i have mixed, shaked and mixed again few ideas here and what i got is: titan should be mobile outpost - that is good ideatitan's dd is overpowered - this is truemy idea is to give titan: - full stack of turret high slots - add some sort of siege module - in this state only titan can use guns and dd. this siege module would also change titan into so called mobile outpost higher resistances + higher repair amount per second + fitting + docking etc.this siege mode or outpost mode would create shield around titan similar to pos shield with similar possibilities. what would happen now? when titan enters battlefield, he must enter siege mode to use his offensive capabilities. now you have true behemoth on battlefield with full rack of powerfull guns + possibility to create dd + possibility for smaller ships to hide behind the shield. but this behemoth is stuck on battlefield for some amount of time siege mode or outpost mode should be much longer then standard siege mode on dreads, for example an hour. what about dd? well titan still can use dd, but once per outpost mode. dd would affect all ships outside titan shield sphere. now, why? because now you have tactics, risk vs reward. it would be risky to send titan into fight."
"bull. this won't affect looting times in the least.we can melt t1 loot into minerals and make isk out of them this way; in my experience, named t1 loot is not worth any more then normal t1 loot.retreat to where? i'm not going to waste my time flying around between waypoints or exiting and reentering missions because he 'got away'. this isn't wow, it's not like we have the ability to simply follow our targets if they run away.why would i want to pvp against npcs, when could pvp against players?-could break all missions like level 5s are broken.no. it won't work. please try to think about how missions work.missions have awards based on the difficulty of the mission, creating a dynamic spawn system would reward people greatly at times, when they get an easy spawn, and not at all when they get a difficult spawn. and without having a clear idea of what the hell is coming, you don't have a chance to decline the mission. i don't find them soul destroying, if anything, i find pvp soul-destroying, perhaps we should change that"
"if there's less loot, then there's less ships to fly between while looting...depends on meta levelretreat as in they're not there anymore. because pvp loses isk whereas missions give you isk?level 5s aren't broken. holy **** you mean that people wont be able to know exactly what they're up against? ...seriously, how is this bad?oh, and there's nothing wrong with sometimes having an easier spawn and sometimes having a harder spawn. exploration is entirely luck based, much moreso than mission running ever could be.eve is a pvp game. static, non competitive isk faucets break the spirit of eve"
"low-end named t1 loot perhaps, but high-end named loot is often 5-6 times as profitable or much more than it's unnamed t1 counterpart. unnamed t1 webfiers and best named webifiers refine into the same minerals, but the best named sells for close to 1 million isk. you actually miss out on a lot of potential income if you don't look for good loot.please read the entire suggestion before responding. once they retreat they're gone, you don't go around chasing them. the point is that you are rewarded by preventing them from retreating by obtaining more loot and bounty, while alternately you could force them to retreat and complete the mission a bit faster. it gives you a decision to make - currently missions have no decisions in which the answer is anything other than obvious. kill ships in order of bounty, collect loot, complete mission.this statement doesn't make much sense...it's not possible to pvp against npcs...thus the \"player verses player\" part. the differences between reasons for pvp and pve are large enough that you already know them.if you have any specific reasons why it could \"break all missions,\" let me know. general statements aren't very insightful.again, i'm not sure you read my entire proposal. obviously there would be a limit so you didn't end up fighting 100 frigates or a dozen battleships. and knowing exactly what is coming is one of the things that make missions boring. i really don't see how this factors into anyone's argument. you just seem like you oppose this on the grounds that it will make your mission experience less predictable, which i could see people opposing if they only ran missions to make isk quickly. but i think it would be better for the overall health of the game.if you want we could make missions completely predictable, just accept the mission and undock and you explode if you don't meet the minimum tankable dps. your reward could just be dependant on your dps and be calculated after you spend half an hour outside the station, but i want to actually create isk earning mechanics that require more thought and are more enjoyable."
"like mining? no, what you want to do is turn an already working system into some pseudo-pvp for your own enjoyment. rather then trying to improve the missions, you want them to be more frustrating, and require more people."
"not really, as you will still have the wreck to salvage and the wreck will contain 1 named item instead of 1 named and 3 t1.the difference would be select and drag instead of select, ctrl-a and drag. so automatically lost?"
"i'm sure you're the minority in thinking that missions wouldn't be more fun with the proposed changes. mindless, predictable, noncompetitive isk faucets aren't in the spirit of eve..at least if they net as much as level 4 missionrunning does.fewer wrecks will have loot, though.yes"
"in spite of what you claim, missions are hardly isk faucets, and some missions are downright mean. not getting the whole 'salvaging' part, are you?"
"supported. i cant stand missions. the only reason i am supporting this is because it might make them more dynamic."
"nice, if these changes were implemented i may actually run missions again without falling asleep on my keyboard./signed"
"last night i was running a level 3 mission against rogue drones - was going to be my last mission of the day as it was about half past midnight. i aggroed the room with my bs, and while waiting for the room to fully aggro and come to me for a nicer salvage range, i drifted off asleep. woke up a few minutes later to find myself sitting in the middle of a pile of scrap metal, the rogue drones all smirking at me. i had neglected to fully switch on my tank before the sandman came.embarassing, to lose a ship capable of soloing 4s to a handful of level 3 rogue drones, but perfectly illustrates the point of how dull missions can be ;. that catnap cost me 60 mil isk after insurance and refit. an expensive few minutes of dreaming - i can't really say it was worth it ;"
"mining is a different issue, but i'd love for it to be more interactive as well to be honest. what do you mean \"for my own enjoyment?\" i think that most mission runners would like missions to be more dynamic. i can only represent my own opinion, to be honest, but i'm not just trying to make things more fun for me.why would i want to do that? i spend a good chunk of my time running missions solo. i want to give people options, not force people to do anything. it's against eve's general principle.oh hell no, that would be ridiculous - the only thing you'd lose out on is the bounty. i want scrambling to be optional and a tactical decision to make, not a requirement. and npc that is required to kill would not warp off."
"a lot to do to with playing till you are exhausted, very little with missions. i know people that have done that while part of a roaming gang. i am always doubtful of the people that say \"i want to make mining more interesting\". in the science and industry forum there is a guy that with that idea want us to play \"han solo dodging asteroids\" with a mining barge .mining can be made more interesting, and niphur in the past has give some good suggestion, beside other people, but making it a joystick game of avoid the asteroid is not it. i meant the target, not the mission. it would be interesting if the target was worth something extra not necessary straight isk, could be lp, standing or decent modules in the exchange to requiring special equipment or if it could be followed to capture/kill him. a change i would like in mission is to make them less farmable through respawn at dt. while i see that sometime it can be needed to redo it accident happens, keeping a mission open a week and farming it after each dt is really a broken mechanism and one of the worst imbalances in my eyes."
"we have all seen radical altering of the game mechanics before, and i applauded ccp for the continuing endeavor to create a better more enjoyable game. that being said; since this kind of radical change is becoming the norm, ccp needs to serve its customer base better, and explore a method for characters to alter their past choices without being able to exploit that mechanic. like other changes to game mechanics, the ability to undo bad choices or choices that were rendered bad of no control of your own needs to be part of the evolution of eve.ccp needs to think about how to compensate players who have spent a lot of time training for a specific effect/game concept only to have them fundamentally altered. simply saying just train something else is no longer a reasonable approach not that it ever was reasonable.for just one small example, characters who have trained to use a skirmish mindlink trained for specific effects. now some of those specific effects may be fundamentally changed. im not attempting to discuss the utility of an agility boost vs a speed boost, i simply saying that players that trained to get a speed boost did not decide to train for an agility boost. khanid ship changes are another example. again, this has nothing to do with whether the changes make the ships/mods better or worse; the point is that players made specific choices based on criteria that were changed, but were not offered any recourse to change their choices. this amounts to a bait and switch. i believe this point can also be applied to concepts like speed tanking, etc.again, i dont mind an evolving game, but i simply feel that if ccp is going to alter the game, there needs to be a mechanic to alter your character. perhaps you could train for a limited respec or something like that. options would have to be explored, but they need to be explored and explored in an honest and forthright manner."
"i don't see how you could possibly do this without either:1. leading to abuse on a large scale2. requiring large amounts of manpowerwhat if something involving production was nerfed and i made an argument that all of my production-related skills should be changed into something else? i have a very high int and memory and a low perception and willpower - by wanting my production skills changed into gunnery skills i would be effectively be unfairly gaining sp because 6 months of training in production skills could equal a year of training in gunnery skills. you could have an automated system recalculate this based off of the attributes involved but this still leaves problems with skills that may have been trained before learning skills.on the other hand, a manual system would require gms to handle each request individually, and assuming that only 5% wants to take advantage of this feature, an extra twelve thousand petitions would slow things down for the rest of us considerably."
"i feel like being a production character now, but it's ok because tomorrow i can fly recons and the next day i'll have fleet command v.no. specialization is final. it requires sacrifice and involves the minor risk of changes in game mechanics."
"yay! then i can respec shadow instead of holy for that big raid on black temple this weekend!eve is supposed to represent real life, to a certain degree. and among those reflections, is the fact that skills and abilities don't magically appear in your mind. and there is no trainer in the capital cities that waves a magic wand and makes them all go away again.when is the last time you woke up and forgot how to drive your car, how to operate the machinery at work, or how to tie your shoes.skills don't just *poof* out of your head, except during a bad clone copy procedure. and even then, the effects are random. there's no calling the operator, and asking for kung fu or how to pilot a titan."
"he has a valid point if a change is so large that it no longer resembles what it once did. the skirmish might not be a good a good example. if the skirmish was changed to only affect mwd or ab speed and not base speed or if rorq's bonus was changed to shield instead of mining it might be worth considering something like this fundamentally different. a change that alters it only slightly i wound't support. i also would prefer some idea of how to accomplish this goal before i support."
"i don't agree, the car you drove yesterday operates in still the same way today as it will tomorrow.if overnight you need a different skillset due to someone changing the rules of the game, you should get the oportunity to get those skills overnight as well.could be done on a 'one time' change skill option in the charpannel that gets enabled after a major ****-up from ccp. some other mmo's have this option build in the game, so i don't see why ccp couldn't implement something similar, skills are only a table in a db and it should not involve manual intervention from anyone."
"because eve isn't like other mmos and our skill system does not work like that of other games. this will never be implemented it is a terrible idea."
"it's the only game i know where in the middle of the party, the rules get changed. this suxx donkeyballs. so if the rules get changed in the middle of the game, i think re-skilling your char without waisting time to start all over again is a justified request."
"i completely disagree with the intention in the title of this thread. this is eve choices have consequences, if you chose something that was overpowered and gets balanced latter, you had your fun now figure out what is still broken and keep on training.however i am for a buff to the time it takes to train skills though. my current plan on evemon is like 10 years long...."
"obviously, this is the first time ccp has ever decided to change the game in a way that hurt the fotm. nano users should get their skills refunded, because there was no precendent for fotm getting nerfed....none at all....except about once a year when a new one gets killed.really, you made a choice, you get consequences. no different then dual mwd, myrmidon, gallente recon, nos, etc...."
"funny thing though, the game hasnt changed yet. this will not be an issue once the speed nerf is adjusted after play test. don't worry about re-speccing yet. the speed nerf will come pre-buffed in the test mode before it is implemented on tranquility.refer to first line of the devblog..... again."
"this is not the first major gameplay change nerf which has been brought into the game, rendering thousands of players' months of training near useless, or at least completely different from why they were originally trained.still, respeccing is a bad idea for eve. though the gameplay does not remain static, your skills make your character and give the game that measure of permanence no other mmo really has."
"its not my intention to evangelize people to my point of view, different people always have different opinions. i would, however, like to make a few things about my perspective clear.1 this is a proposal given a growing trend, not a response to a specific issue. ccp has made significant changes to facets of the game before, and i doubt it will be the last time. i am simply arguing that if this is to become a trend, then ccp should consider options to mitigate undesirable side effects. for example, the khanid ship changes were rather significant and affected characters unevenly. some characters were entirely unaffected, while others had skilled to fly ships that effectively no longer existed.2 i want to make it absolutely clear that i am not suggesting some kind of painless option to totally reset your character. i expect that there would be significant but reasonable requirements for altering limited aspects of your character. tbh, i would be perfectly happy to see a limited option only become available in response to a major game change.i really dont want to dictate how skill reclamation system would work, that is for ccp to decide. ill give an example below just to give some idea of scope. i dont expect it to work that way, its just an example of what i mean by limited.3 i fully realize there would be significant difficulties to implement such a change, but i doubt the are insurmountable. finding an appropriate mechanic with appropriate restrictions may not be an easy task, but neither is creating, expanding, and balancing an mmo in the first place.just one rhetorical point to some of the comments made: eve is a game; it should be fun and as fair as possible. eve is not some kind of life simulator or replacement for real life achievements. i summarily reject any argument that appeals to eve being like real life. i could beat this point to death, but thats is a separate discussion.exampleagain, this is just and example to clarify scope, im not arguing for this particular method and mechanic.you want to reclaim skirmish warfare specialist you have level 5. to do so you must train a special reclamation skill and you must reclaim the entire skill, i.e. you cannot just reclaim one level of the skill. the time it will take to perform the reclamation training is based on the rank, level, and primary/secondary attributes of the skill being reclaimed.1- the rank of the reclamation training is equal to the skill reclaimed.2- the primary attributes for the reclamation skill are the same as the skill reclaimed.3- the level time is one level less than the reclaimed skill. in this example the total time to reclaim skirmish warfare specialist at level v would be equal to the amount of time your character would need to train a rank 5 skill based on charisma/will from level 3 to level 4.once you were done you would receive a bank of skill point that could be spent on any skill that had the same primary and secondary attributes. dont forget you lose skirmish warfare specialist completely though it could be retrained latter if you wish.obviously you could not undercut prerequisites. anyway, i only provide the example to show that im not talking about some wildly easy way to just remake your character. i am talking about a method that would allow you to shift your character's focus within reason and at the cost of some lost training time.for example, this would allow you to trade mechanical engineering v to particle physics v at the cost of some training time, but it would not allow you to trade mechanical engineering v for amarr cruiser v in any way shape or form."
"op: no. just no.last sunday, after having a 26er of rye and a half-bottle of red wine the night before."
"anyway, i see that no one likes my ideaits all good, ill live, and ill give up on this thread after this post.that being said, i have to reply to just one post. it has almost nothing to do with the thread but i always get a chuckle from people who appeal to real life to justify some aspect of a game world. this guy may be trolling but there are those out there who actually think along these lines.so, when was the last time you woke up and you car was suddenly a snowmobile? the analog has happened in eve, e.g. a turret ship suddenly becomes a missile boat.when was the last time your body was destroyed, but your neural mappings were instantly documented at the moment of your death and transported at faster than light speeds to be deposited in a clone?when was the last time you flew in a ship with massively sophisticated computers that cant seem to do simple things like automatically lock targets without employing some kind of giant secondary computer system that is modularly interchangeable with a howitzer?when was the last time you plugged into a skill book that taught you how to fly a space battleship?when was the last time you were able to remove or install 1600 millimeters of armor plating on an entire ship in the blink of an eye? oh and btw that armor is modularly interchangeable with a target tracking system.when is the last time you were able to repair tons of armor in a few seconds using empty space and nano repair bots?it is a game, and things that defy the logic of real life are accepted all the time because it makes the game experience more enjoyable and fair. repeat after me, you are not a super cool, nigh invincible spaceship pilotyou are some guy or chick who plays eve."
"ok one last posti find it odd that no one bats an eye at characters being bought and sold so players can gain or trade access to new ships/mods, but everyone seems to think it is unacceptable for someone to be able alter his or her own character. where is the logic in that?alrightseriouslyim done now."
"first off... i do not troll... i just vary my input to threads based upon the legitimacy and/or the repetition of the topic. this \"respeccing\" for instance, has been talked about numerous times, with similar rejection each time.i don't think that your car has become a snowmobile. however, i do think there was an overnight recall on your transmission, and now you have an automatic instead of a standard. that doesn't mean you get to just \"erase\" how to drive a standard. those skills will be with you forever. now you'll just have to relearn how to operate the car with an automatic instead.spaceships, fittings, repairs... that's all game mechanics, as you pointed out. and given the setting 40,000 years in the future, entirely plausible. besides, it's the same with any mmo. some may have elves wearing armor and carrying shields. this one has frigates wearing armor and carrying lasers.btw... i am a \"super cool spaceship pilot\""
"no"
"alright. learning skills, as they are, suck. the skill system in eve is nice because it's flexible and you're always training towards something useful. personally, i'll be damn happy a week from now because i'll be able to use t2 medium guns. i remember the same feeling when i hit electronics upgrades v and could start training for my covops. working towards that next desired skill and watching as it changes your gameplay is part of what makes eve so appealing.enter learning skills. learning skills grind this to a halt. the choice for newbies isn't \"hmm, i do want to train to use this awesome new module, or get into a destroyer, or get myself connections to do level 2 missions...\" there is no choice, really. they're told that unless they spend weeks training up learning skills, they'll be gimped later on. as such, it makes the early part of eve, well, ****ing boring. yeah, of course you can stagger the learning skills and not do it all at once, but you're still wasting a ****load of time training some boring skill that only serves as a means to slow them down as they try to get into eve.learning skills flat out suck, and if i recall correctly ccp doesn't like them either. however, how do you remove them without making it unfair to vets who've trained all those skills up?it's pretty simple. firstly, remove the learning skills from the game. refund all points that people have spent into learning skills and put them in a pool that can be distributed instantly to any other skill they want. no sp wasted. from there, add 6-10 to all attributes for everyone to make up for the lack of learning skills."
"i support the idea/discussion currently going on"
"you really think they are going to count the 3/4 of the alts voting in your speed-nerf threads?i really don't think they will. especailyl when they actually check how many are a few days old : and if you really want votes to count, then they are going to have to do a search on every character to see how old they are and if they are actually viable as a voter...just like real life.guess your vote will fail at that point"
"votes are per account not per character and are automatically counted numbnuts."
"nobody that plays eve has alt accounts."
"guess what, each one of those votes cost $15 usd a month. so why does the pro-nerf have 18 and the anti-nerf have 40? maybe because the anti-nerf represents the year+ playerbase that have dedicated to the game, invested billions in ships and implants and second accounts, and because the pro-nerf typically is made of 3-month drake and raven pilots that just joined the biggest blob alliance that would let them in. ever vote is valid, get over yourself."
"can i just remind you arlenna , that whatever changes ccp make to the game resulting from these proposed changes , the people who fly nano ships now and are engaged in pvp on a daily basis , will still be good pvpers and you will still be ****.fly safeo/velve"
"or maybe it is just because people are more likely to speak out if they have something to lose, and find it hard to consider what is best for the game rather than their own selfish interests?i think this nerf is a needed one, and i am a beta vet .. so your arguement isn't all that strong, is it?"
"i think the votes against are only higher because all the nano***s double as forum whiners..."
"i see no reason to believe that one side of the debate would be using alts more than the other. nano-lovers and nano-haters both feel passionately about this issue, and i imagine there's about the same ratio of people on both sides who will cast three votes per account instead of one. thus, even if the raw numbers are misleading, thesupport ratios should not be. of course, ccp needs to fix the voting system in many ways, one per account highest among them, but the vote is not illegitimate just because the system is imperfect."
"i'm pretty sure this is already the case - try and support something with one character and then try and do it with an alt on that account. i'll try it now, actually..."
"i is be alt."
"well, that's a little annoying."
"adjustments to research/manufacturing interface at pos, csms please bring this to the attention of ccp, we need some streamlining!hangar & interface changes simple"
"well im gonna send this back to the top"
"luv ya jade."
"which one of you support the ninja salvagers? i'm having trouble trying to figure this one out, since everyone i've talked to seems to immediately turn carebear on me."
"i never really got that bit of the argument actually. surely \"carebear\" would be supporting a game position where people steal other people's stuff and because its hisec they can't actually do anything about it? wasn't i supporting a position where by the carebears in the op hisec mission runners could actually shoot at ninja salvagers if they were so inclined and thereby throw down the gauntlet for a pvp confrontation? why not ninja salvage some guys wrecks in a combat ship from time to time just to let them know what happens if you get tired of losing your dessy? just a thought."
"nozh is a tool and should be fired. so should whoever hired the asshat."
"this \"fix\" is too rough.such work is impermissible for game-designer."
"in b4 hurr zulubird"
"yep people moaned they got what they wanted and tbh even though im a nano user i just think its gonna be just as fun to change the way we play. the only people who will be affected are those who can only play one way."
"can't this topic just be locked already? it's pathetic"
"why is it pathetic? looks more like folks wanting some answers is all although some could be better written ."
"your post just shows that you are an ingnorant whiner who doesnt understand the game or doesnt have the skill to combat nano ships. i agree some speed mods needed looking into, but the nerf is way over the top and is a major blow to the minnie race, ive been playing eve for 4 years and i believe ccp are losing touch with what eve was intended to be, the last year i have seen some absolutly stupid ideas that ccp have tried to introduce into the game and it seems as if they dont even play the same game as we do. surely they must see how this will encourage blobbing and they must already know that the servers cant handle huge fights.pos warfare in its current form means masses of players are needed, this change will just mean that masses of players will be needing for other aspects of the game aswel, people claim that roaming was just as easy before nanos but that was when there was 20k less players on the server, jump bridges werent even a twinkle in the eye and cap ships werent dropped on every 5 man inty gang like today. if the patch does go live the skill involved in eve will just be dumbed down so much it wont be worth playing, ccp need to wake up and get some devs who actualy understand the game to start making the descions."
"the lot of you whiners have your tinfoil hats so securly welded on that you can't read what has actually been said in the proposed changes.here is a quick recap.1. current achivable speed breaks the physics engine.that's right, the speeds currently obtainable are causing program level damage. that means they will get corrected.2. gurillia warfare, that's the nano fleets or some succesful equivilant, will not be removed from the game.in other words you will still be able to raid in 0.0.3. there will be a month of playtesting before anything goes live.so get on the test server and proove to ccp that the proposed changes will \"wreck the game\". take a quick breather, castigate yourself for training the fotm. realize that nano isn't being removed or nerfed into the stone age, it's being balanced. a reason to fit afterburners is being added and the web+scram will no longer be instant death. you nano monkies should be estatic about that.the mere fact that mwd are nearly required modules shows you the current state of afairs is broken. can nano be countered? sure absolutly, can it be countered with a kill by non-nano? only if you have a ddd. all other nano counters end in the nano ships leaving unharmed, unless their pilots make a critical error.that state of afairs, while livable, is not balanced. so tuck and roll for god's sakes. if you want serious input on the nano changes you won't get them here. get on the test server and see for yourselves what they will be like. hell you might like it.-galan"
"i logged onto sisi briefly earlier to test out the blaster paradox this patch will create.deimos / t2 blasterswith the mwd change the web change, blaster-ships have no chance."
"really need to get some of the devs that moved over to work on emovampires back."
"yep, that means extreme speeds though, whereas the current singularity build is pretty much halfing the speed of all mwd cruisers. what that actually does at the moment is bring everything into killzone for amarrian laser boats and missiles. so what we've seen so far is a return to battleships online from year two of the game and an effective nerf on all small ships. not just the extreme nano performance that actually did break the game physics engine. its worth being informed on these things. its one thing to say that, its quite another to actually do it. and the reality is that the current nerf on speed is pretty much removing guerrilla warfare from the game in 0.0 sovereignty regions. this is the direct impact on removing speed-based evasion possibility before addressing broken sovereignty mechanics and fixing alternatives like black ops and distributed small gang objectives. this isn't news to us, and its why the csm voted 30 issues to immediate ccp consideration ahead of speed nerfing.no you really can't. in npc sov raiding will be \"hot drops of caps\", burn eden style cloaking gate camps, cloaking recons or large rr battleship groups. in player sov you can scratch the hot drops cyno jammers and largely scratch rr battleship groups since hostile jump bridge networks can instantly drop an entire regions worth of blobbers on your head while dictors, hics and bubbles cut off all escape. ultimately it leaves us with burn eden style cloak and gank tactics and thats about it - ravens, hyenas and sabres with falcon ecm support. -> guess what the next \"hot topic\" will be for extra points? well lets just say speed ships aren't doing so well on the test server at the moment. battleships are. insta-death = a blob of battleships/bc sat on a gate firing at your ship whilst it toodles away at 1500mps really. i'd advise you to go test this for yourself on sisi actually. warp a ship any ship into the ffa beacon with an active battleship group sat on the beacon and try and get away, then imagine this is 0.0 and as well as the damage they have a hic bubble and a couple of rapiers with multiple webs. perhaps you do genuinely feel that 0.0 sov regions should be impossible to pass. if so then fair enough, thats your point of view and you are welcome to it. but lets not pretend this speed-nerf will allow roving pvp in 0.0. it really won't.i'm afraid that is just simple ill-informed nonsense."
"i never suggested it wasn't \"worth being informed\". have you heard that they are pleased with the current results and plan to go live with all changes? that would be something to get up in arms about. if not, please keep playtesting and provide that valuable feedback. it also helps to post in leiu of that feedback and not with the constant stream of \"oh noes! !111 nano!!\" that's been the norm here.so the csm feels a change correcting a broken physics engine is less important than thirty other things? how many of them are breaking aspects of the game code?so here is the question, will the current status of nano break the intended sov fix? if it would then i imagine a nano fix would have to come first. again since we don't know what the final fix will be at this point panic is unwarented. and that necisitates panic? play it out, offer meaningful suggestions and quit acting like they are killing your baby.i'm not pretending anything, i'm stating the intended results direct from ccp nozh's devblog. ccp has a pretty good track record of achiving balance with broken aspects of combat, nos and ecm being prime examples.it's interesting that you give \"roughly half\" in one example and \"1500m/s\" in another. since when is half of 7.5km/s 1.5km/s? since in your example i'm jumping into the worst possible senerio, alone. i submit i ought to die in that senerio. with a cloaked pilgrim i might not though. here's an equally balanced example for you. take any straw man you want and jump into my burning barn. if you get out without being incenirated straw is clearly overpowered. nerf strawman. o really? i must have been sleeping the last three years in game. tell me then since i'm such fail. how do you kill a nano ship, without a nano ship or a ddd? unles the nano pilot makes a catastrophic error?i'm waiting, what aside from nano kills nano? not runs it off, kills it.-galan"
"understandably, people are going to be angry if speed is nerfed, and people are going to be angry if it isn't.however, the above statement argues against one fundamentally strong and powerful point put forth by the devblog, and the devblog can be explained by logic:ships that use nano builds are fast, decrease damage through speed, and are agile.nano builds are fundamentally flawed when combined with modules and rigs that make the ship faster than drones, missiles and turret tracking speeds.therefore,ships that use nano builds are fundamentally flawed, because when they are combined with modules and rigs that make the ship faster than drones, missiles, and turret tracking speeds, they markedly decrease damage and are too agile.the problem is in the root, many people say. the root of this case are nanos and other modules that decrease weight by a percentage. the problem is that if you affect the root, you affect the entire tree. every ship that uses nanos+mwd or other modules will be affected. yes ccp, speed does need to be nerfed a bit. the ships that rely on speed need a fix. but if the roots are to be looked at, one must look at what that'll do to the rest of the tree.this proposed patch will probably be one of the biggest in terms of impact, as it's effects will hinder, help and hamper hundreds of thousands in a very big way. this time, we have to get it right the first time.ccp. no ubernerf then eventual pump, please.players, quit the smacktalk and help out instead of whining.we need to look at this carefully.we need to look at this with dedication.we need to look at the future of eve's warfare.and if all comes crashing down in a conflagration of hate,we need to look at what went wrong.the future, gentlemen, is in our hands."
"all ccp need to do is reduce the bonuses ods, polycarbs and snake sets give to speed. doing what they plan to do doesn't just affect nano ships it will affect nearly every ship in the game. it's simp and does what they want to be done without screwing over close range boats in the process."
"maybe instead of a nerf they should introduce/boost a mod, drone,... whatever, that can effectivly be used against nano-ships. i mean in real life you wouldn't/can't make a technology worse, you would develop something to counter it. balance game, but with a forward approach.just an idea."
"part of the problem is the number of ways that can be used to make a ship faster. it gets expensive but the bonus is clearly worth it.this part of the probelm is being solved with large changes to the various totals possible when these methods are combined.if the goal there is to bring all ships to a new maximum potential speed an alternate solution would simply be to set a maximum speed each hull can atain. leave the modules and implants and whatnot alone but allow them only to take an individual hull so far. the remaining slots, no longer useful for nano, can be fitted with modules to make the new ship more dangerous. so you can get all your speed from implants and then have a tank and dammage mods in your lows.ultimately nothing is set in stone and it will be playtested extensivly so if you are worried get on the test server.the seccond problem is making the ab more useful. this is partially accomplished with the 2pt scram = no mwd portion and partially accomplished with the webber nerf.both will add an interesting new adaption to speed/tank ships. the main complaint is that blaster boats will suddenly be helpless.nearly all combat occurs within 20km. small blasterboats will need to be speced for speed so they can still run down oponents. they will benifit from not losing their speed totally when close to large vessels.large blaster boats can swap that web mid slot for a targeting computer with a range script. it may take more than one module but they will be able to get range. if they can't be made to work consistantly then play test, again, will show this and we may see an adjustment to the blaster falloff range.-galan"
"totally supporting this, would go into detail but op said it all."
"fw is a ****stain on the underwear of this game until all factions are included."
"even if they added all the factions to fw tomorrow, the issues being raised would still exist, just for more factions/characters/players. how about you take a chill pill and stop trolling."
"i agree with may of the ideas here."
"i support this idea!.if it was on the csm agend in iceland, what has come of it?.ab"
"absolutely yes."
"supported, oh yeah!"
"i know the game cannot be balanced as there is no such thing in a game such as this. i am only asking that they work to correct items that are clearly broken. they have added alot of features and i am suggesting that they take some time to place more emphasis on correcting a few things that are obviously broken [do not ask me for exaples just look through this forum, features and ideas, and other relavent threads] they also need to take some time to look over the games core codeing and see if there are any ways they can rewrite it to be faster and more stable."
"i think this is making mining much to complex. changing the asteroid belts to exploration sites would be sufficient, and i like the idea of a prospecting ship, it would definitely be needed to provide a reliable way to find belts to mine. i am not sure whether i like the idea of \"publishing\" the location of the asteroid belts, as people take time to find them, and do not want everyone just leeching off their work, but then again, it might be harder for newer players to get into mining without any exploration experience. here is a post of mine in another thread that i think could provide a nice change to mining."
"this is why belts should never be completely relegated to exploration sites only.when the systems were initially surveyed, they placed the beacons to make sure they could get back to the belts easier. that's why they're blantantly obvious on the overview.i don't quite think the solution to mining boredom is complicating the current process. i think it's adding more content on top of the existing.1 mineral rich, fast moving comets. while it might be more profitable to chew them up with your hulk... you'll need an ab/mwd to stay in range. meaning the challenge is balancing cargo space and mining efficiency with speed for pursuit.2 a modification to constantly having to find belts... is the idea of exhausting a location. why would a belt wiped clean suddenly appear full the next day? or why would a moon never run dry and collapse in on itself. heavily mining a particular system could drastically alter the ecology when moons start disappearing and pos have to pick up and move on."
"i'd have to agree with this, hence why i modified the idea to keep the existing belts in place. like you said, newbie miners do need somewhere to mine. what i would do however is remove the enhanced versions of the ores from the belts and move these to exploration sites. so you could go to a current belt and make a small profit off basic ores, or you could go hunting for better belts using the exploration system and make a better profit, thus rewarding you if you're willing to put in the effort to find these sites.sounds like a really good idea, more varied content is definately welcome.agreed. resource depletion should definately be something that people have to be aware of. hence why only a certain proportion of asteroids should respawn at each downtime as opposed to the current system where all of them respawn.as to moons, setting each moon to have a respawn rate as well as a current quantity for each mineral on that moon would maek things more interesting.for example:- moon x contains titanium and cobalt. both have a maximum quantity of 24000 units and a recharge of 50 units per hour. you set up a pos to mine the titanium, and succeed in keeping the process running 24/7. with these figures you extract 100 units per hour and the mineral recharges at 50 units so net depletion of 50 units per hour. you can keep this mining going for 480 hours 20 days before the moon will be depleted of that mineral. you then trade over to cobalt for the next 20 days while the titanium rebuilds up to maximum.this gives meaning to the mineral abundance figure. most moons have this as a factor of 1, however a moon with a factor of 2 would recharge the mineral at twice the normal rate 100 units instead of 50 units. on one of these moons you could effectively mine indefinately as the depletion rate would match the recharge rate.having said this, this is a seperate idea and probably deserving of a thread of it's own."
"1- learning is a necessary waste of time.it usually takes a person two weeks to complete learning skills. in that two weeks, said person will have to learn more about eve and game mechanics than he will have to in the next three or four months of his eve-life. why is this two weeks important? it's the trial by fire for allegedly new players. eve is a cold world, it mimics too much of the real world because pilots are allowed to scam, cheat, steal as long as that particular action does not involve an exploit, or against the eula. about 60% of new players come to eve never make it pass the trial by fire. it is a good thing. look at the other alternative, wow.2- whining is human nature.you do it. i do it. he/she/it does it. quit whining about me whining.3- eve stands for evolution. not the corp, ughpilots in eve evolve everyday. from a frigate pilot into a cruiser pilot. from a cruiser pilot into a bs pilot or a specialized interdictor pilot. it's the core of eve that dictate the game. sometimes, the game reach a period of stagnant, evolution slows down. and we stuck with massive blob of hundreds of players, cold war between two powerhouses, alliance after alliance pour their resources in supercapital ships. but, somewhere in the galaxy, in some dark corner of space, one pilot come up with a tactic now widely known as nano***gotry, which involve small number of pilots fitting exclusive for speed for hit-and-run operation deep in the enemy territories. this cycle of evolution, this mutation has spread. most pilots adapt to this tactic, some stand resilient against it. most fail and whine, some succeed and hold their heads high.soon, nano***gotry will no longer be the trendy thing to do. this tactic will mutate to something else, for better or for worse. and the cycle of evolution continues to turn.this ain't burger king, you can't always have it your way."
"increasing the roidsizes is more then just adding more ore in them. if they were to do that, then prices on minerals would drop even more then they already have.i have no trouble finding any roids to mine. we set up our hq in a system with 12 belts and 1 ice belt, and there is always roids to mine. even in a hulk. altho some times there isn't enough for 1 complete cycle per roid, but then i just mine something else that is useful.i think you should get a fast ship, equip a survey scanner and do a tour of the nearby systems and you will find plenty of belts to mine. no need to go to low or nullsec either."
"as the title implies, i'm quite intrigued by the timing of this nano \"rebalancing\". with the establishment of the csm, we have been given the capability to raise issues and put them to the vote in the assembly hall.most people will be aware there are two threads on the nano issue- one for people who support the changes and another for those against.its safe to say that those against are presently way ahead in terms of votes. but does that mean that ccp will drop their plans? or at least take it back to the drawing board due to the obvious opposition to the substance of the recent dev blog?i guess the broader question is- will the idea of the csm and a more democratic process for taking this game forward prove to have been a charade? if ccp choose to ignore the obvious concerns of many players and push on with the changes regardless?for the record i voted against the changes, not because i don't think nanos need to be looked at, but i do think ccp have gone way over-board this time!"
"i was going to post to this on the subjects of invulnerability and balance, but as i don't pvp and my understanding of speed tanking is not even close to 100%, i will leave the field to those who know what they are talking about :"
"yes thats an interesting point.i'm the first to concede that my understanding of game mechanics is far below that of the devs.after all it's their job! but i'm also often impressed by the knowledge of our player base concerning these issues. some of whose rebuttals in similar debates read like technical reports from some kind of scientific study!what interests me more though is whether ccp are going to be true to the democratic principles of the csm and listen to the concerns of many ppl over these changes... or not"
"frankly, i don't think this is a situation that calls for democracy. the point of the csm system is to bring concerns to the developers, not to vote on whether to reject proposed changes.it would be pretty ridiculous to run the game's development on a series of proposal-veto-counterproposal iterations. the playerbase needs to come up with solid recommendations and specific changes to what ccp has laid out - that's what the csm was designed for. unscientific polling is simply a distraction.i have read plenty of great analysis from players who are actually on the test server experimenting with the proposed changes and seeing what works and what doesn't. but what we need is a csm counter-proposal that specifically collects and outlines the findings of the players in an effective, simple and easy to read format.it doesn't matter how many supports an \"anti-nerf\" thread gets - that just isn't constructive and there's nothing ccp can do with that info except assume that it's just the standard anti-nerf whine and tune it out as background noise. if we expect the csm to have any impact on this particular issue it must be with highly specific and reasoned arguments, not with noise."
"i agree theres a danger to un-scientific polling as you say, and i'm not expecting ccp to throw the whole proposal in the bin just because of the uproar. that would be irresponsible. i'm just wondering if they will take the opposition into account. otherwise whats the point? you can't deny that ccp are attempting to introduce at least a basic democratic principle with the csm, and i applaud them for it. but i also feel that its over issues like this that the whole thing will stand or fall.if its function is simply as you say, then the next appropriate meeting of the csm will have to raise this with the developers as a key issue. if only due to the sheer number of people lining up on both sides of the argument .my point really is will ccp listen to the genuine concerns that people have raised? not whether votes in the assembly hall should be the deciding factor on game balancing. which would be nuts!"
"but what exactly will they raise to ccp? that's more my point - right now we just have these \"for\" and \"against\" threads that do not accomplish anything by way of generating specific feedback. the csm has nothing to bring to ccp at this point except the fact that many people supported an \"anti-nerf\" thread. what good is that?the genuine concerns can't be listened to until they are clearly and concisely expressed, and that has not yet been done. my point really is that the opposition cannot be taken into account until they present a clear counter-proposal. at present, opposition to the nerf is far too vague to be worth discussing. it has to coalesce into something debatable."
"the developers are obviously the people that will come up with the right solution to the problem of \"ludicrous speed\" in the end. they are naturally in the best position to do so. i wouldn't expect a player to be able to come with a counter proposal that would be as feasible as someone who is paid to do that job unless they were a developer for another mmo perhaps, who happens to play eve...and who could blame them!! but neither do i think it should be all or nothing. where a dev blog is posted and everyone just has to accept it without question. of course ccp are well within their rights to do this. but i for one don't support those methods. especially when a mechanism has been introduced that is supposedly intended to give the player base a real and meaningful input into game development.i feel that i should clarify that i have no particular vested interest in the nano issue. i have benefited from their use and also suffered at its hands. even though admittedly i voted against in this particular \"anti-nerf\" thread. i simply weighed up the pros and cons of the proposal as i saw them and made my decision. thats what does interest me. the vision and promise behind the csm. i really hope that the council is a success. as i believe a sucessful exchange between the player base and its developers, which lead to real improvements in this game could act as a positive example for other mmo's. none of which to my knowledge have a similar institution.i feel the csm represents a unique opportunity for its representatives to raise the concerns of the player base formally to game developers. then taking these concerns into account the developers can use their expertise to act on them. if the csm is reduced simply to the orbit of bug hunting and proposing minor fixes. i fear it will become a hollow process and won't live up to the expectations of many players who have become genuinely engaged in the process"
"yes but simply saying \"many players don't like these changes\" isn't meaningful input. and currently that is all the voting threads are saying. if the csm is to have a meaningful impact on this particular development issue, they and the playerbase need to quickly move beyond support/reject and get into highlighting the specific problems that are solved and created by the proposal, based on real analysis and active testing by the playerbase.i guess my point is that demanding action from the csm on the basis of the vague polls is not productive. we as the playerbase still have not yet provided them with real meat to work with, and it is still our responsibility to present something meaningful for them to escalate to ccp. a broad disatisfaction with the devblog is not a valid issue for escalation, in my opinion."
"if you read the threads, a decent number of the posts are actual argument, instead of just a thumb and maybe some swearing aimed at the other side. it's not all, by any means, but it's enough to sort of understand what the various opinions are on the topic. the poll is unscientific, yes, but it's the best we've got, and it's at least quantitative, which is better than the pre-csm method of conducting similar threads on eve general."
"i just don't think a poll of players, no matter how accurate, is a suitable indicator of the justness of a balance issue. it is an old saying that what is popular is not always right and what is right is not always popular.the way to impact a design plan like this is through reasoned argument, and that can be done without tallying polls at all and i'd point out that that is the very purpose of the csm - to act as a 'filter' and pluck good ideas out from the background noise of the forums. the council members ought to be swayed by the strength of the arguments rather than the weight of numbers in a poll, that's all i'm saying, and i object to the notion that the nano-nerf issue is a 'test of democracy' for all of those reasons."
"i've been reading and contributing lots of feedback in the test server forum, and i've run across several posts from ccp devs stating that suggest they aren't looking for approval from the playerbase, but that they are instead interested in feedback.believe it or not, a lot of issues are being raised by players and answered by ccp already, in just two days.many of the issues brought up in the posts of those opposed are already said to being looked into.i've been vocal that i do not think it is the csm's place to oppose eve developer decisions despite explicitly stating attention! the modifications discussed below are all subject to change, based on player input and testing experience.this is a playtester issue atm. ccp has asked for and is looking for testers and feedback from the test server at this time. and if you look through the most recent dev posts, they are clearly quite annoyed by all of the flippant, unhelpful replies.no doubt the 100+ page of \"agree\" is not what ccp is interested in at this time."
"simple:bring in the team of tourney commentators \"experts\" if you will and leave things in thier hands. i would happily trust whatever recommendations they made over any csm member anyway.**edit**and would live with the results without complaining. but then again..as they actually know something about eve combat operations in total...i would rest pretty easy knowing the game wasn't going to be dumbed down further.i'll put that in my expanded bio."
"it's really good that you're highlighting this concern lavista. if i can make a bold suggestion - the csm should just refuse to discuss ship balancing issues, period.trying to collect all the ship issues into one document is just going to obscure the real problem in a sea of frivolous complaints. taking them one at a time and trying to determine which concerns are legit and which ones aren't is going to waste the council's time.ccp wants you to act as a filter, so i suggest simply filtering out all ship balance issues - the worst case scenario is that something legitimately broken with a ship doesn't get raised to ccp. but if you try to take up these sorts of issues, you run the very real risk of wasting time that could be spent on the true big picture items that ccp wants the csm to be bringing to them."
"lavista, this is a cross-post from warpdriveactive.com:i agree with you that the csm, in its current form, might not be the best place to deal with detailed, micro-level game issues like ship balancing. i think there are bigger issues for the csm to be concerned with - and *they* should be the focus of the council.when important political issues get raised by citizens in their country, they are discussed and widely debated by their political representatives and in the press. however, this is rarely at the level of detail of an exact amount a particular tax incentive should be set at, or the precise amount of money which should be paid as a benefit to one group or another. these details are worked out by the civil servants, the un-biased subject matter experts who are not part of the political parties. the people and their representatives debate the bigger ideas.i guess my comparison is pretty obvious: in my mind, ccp are the civil servants of eve; those with the detailed and crucially neutral view on the mechanics of a particular detailed aspects of the game - and perhaps with a better understanding of some of the wider issues a small change here or there may make.by comparison, the csm should be about discussing the bigger ideas, the wider-reaching aspirations of the player-base in eve.specifically relating to ship balancing issues; i think that the csm could usefully discuss a more streamlined channel as you mentioned in your post - but that you should otherwise have a hands-off approach. if you attempted to act as arbitrators between ccp and those on the forums calling for x or y ship to be boosted or nerfed, i think that the csm could become perpetually bogged down in those issues, and never able to achieve its full potential to look at the bigger picture.vm"
"vestik is right on - well said!"
"very well-written post indeed.but here is something, that makes me wonder: i tend a link to this thread, on the csm mailing-list. but it's only ankh who has actually responded. what is up with that?"
"they probably don't think it was worth posting out of lack of support. but that was a rhetorical question right?"
"hey how about this. -identify a thread that has adequate suport.-csm does not vote or debate fix of ships.-send it to the dev who works on these types of issues exclusivley, in a tl;dr format. another words the guy that works on this crap day in and day out can quickly identify if there is a problem or not, and leave it up to him to essculate it.-csm is still representing the player base and not sending in \"niggling\" issues to teh devs that are expecting different content."
"one obvious question springs to mind. if ccp doesn't want to talk about balancing issues with the csm, and the csm doesn't want to talk about balancing issues with ccp, then why the hell did it get brought up in iceland? who put it on the schedule, and why? was it just miscommunication, and if so just address it for next time. and if it wasn't discussed for any great length of time, then the system seems to be working properly as-is. i don't want you wasting your time with issues that everybody agrees to be minor, or even merely unarguable. but banning balance discussions and things like that are really heavy-handed solutions to something that i'm not convinced is a problem. the csm exists to discuss all eve-related issues, not just the vision stuff. don't cut off a large swath of that just because it's inconvenient - de-emphasize it, sure, but don't eliminate it entirely."
"yes..just yes"
"yes, now please"
"those prototype models look freakin' sweet! also, seeing personal repair stations like the ones you have to pop for those easy mercenary missions would be nice so people without a ton of coin could still own a little piece of space."
"/signed"
"/signed looks the way it should"
"up!even a simple non 3d application that support, say, chat, market, wallet and the general character management, would be apreciated! :d"
"i agress with this. and have better resolution support. i have a 46\" wide screen 1080p tv i want to use as a monitor.when i try max resolution single monitor on my tv at 1920 x 1080 res, it doesn't display anything at all.it would be nice to use the tv to see space and my laptop can be used for all the other windowed information."
"/signed"
"/signed.support for quad-mon please."
"i like how the naglfar looks.... looks scerry, dark and mysterious.... i especially liked how it looked on the teaser trailers for the emp age expansion"
"give it a hull tank - 10% hull resistances per levelbulkheads ftw"
"/signed"
"sigend"
"/signed"
"/signedmy ceptor's are useless now. i could tackle just as well in a cheap frigate instead of having my uninsurable ship popped by warrior drones."
"against"
"against!"
"against!"
"it is clear to me that this is a hot topic.i was really undecided in this as a rule.there are many ways to counter nanoships that nobody really wants to do because it requires coordination and brains to do it.the arguments on both sides are very compelling but it is clear to me just looking at these 2 threads that the playerbase has spoken.looks to me like the majority is against this nerf so i will support this motion, that has no weight anyhow - ccp will do it no matter what is said."
"nano nerf can go die. lots."
"against !nerf speed ? why not. destroy speed tanking for cruiser sized vessels and above ? no please, not fair for those who can't shield or armor tank.make missiles the must have in small gang or solo pvp ? it's going to become the \"push the button it can't tank it anyway\" flavor of the month until the next nerf."
"too much, too fast and too many 'flow on' effects to missiles, web, scram and who knows what else if it is ever put into operation.good idea to reduce 'ludicrous' speed but worst implementation ever."
"/signed and stamped to iceland"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"ccp need rethink what they want. they try to control everything now. did they still remember what they said first?they just give tools they will give player a free space. so they want more now."
"against !"
"2/3 of the replies here are done by alters"
"against!!!"
"against."
"against."
"signed against"
"signed"
"against"
"signedagainst"
"dear player,we changed your loved mmog to hello kitty online.it<U+FFFD>s sink or swim!"
"hello kitty online is great fun!ok.../sarcasm endagainst"
"who ever came up with this nerf-has never played this game."
"nvm"
"against!!!"
"i'm against this nerf"
"against it."
"i very much doubt the people voting against it have actually tried it.it isn't the drastic nerf they are making it out to be.in fact, it is pretty darn good.i would have nerfed it harder tbh."
"i tried it. i voted against."
"i have tried it. but probably a lot of people voting against haven't. but i bet the same goes for people voting in favour. and i also bet that i have more evidence that ccp nozh doesn't have a ****ing clue about what he is doing than that you have to the contrary. using a vaga with t2 polys and a snakeset as an example of a setup 'with nothing special'?"
"well, caldari missile boats except kestrel needs a boost. :p"
"nano ships are too easy to kill. i never fly them but i blow them up all the time in slow ships. my last five kills are against nano ships with my buffer tank hurricane.edit: opps i forgot to get the support button fixed now"
"against the nerf"
"against ps.:bring more stuff ships and items don`t nerv the old !"
"against. balance it, don't change the game completely."
"signed"
"keep it up boys, poke your corp mates to voice their opposition to this garabage and hopefully it will get retracted."
"against it"
"against."
"oh yeah this guy hates it too"
"and me too, i hate ze nano nerf and the caldari whiners tooz"
"against."
"against."
"you honestly think that will make them want to reverse changes and walk away like they never thought about it?if you're that mad, you sir need to deactivate your account and take a step outside. it's a gorgeous day, the rabbits are hopping, and the children are playing..."
"against"
"against! i bet they do it whatever people say."
"so truebut, i vote against"
"im all for adjustments to nanos, and all for some of the ideas currently being tested, but in its current format i cant agree with it"
"support a nano nerf but not how they have done it."
"against"
"against definitly !"
"against"
"half baked ideas"
"!!!!!!!!!!"
"jajaja, /signed"
"against"
"against."
"against"
"against."
"i don't know how many players have more than one account, but what does it change ? you only have one vote per payed account."
"i don't think this is the appropriate way to wash the dirty laundry of requiem. you perfectly know, why tri members didn't join in that op. god, what am i happy to be back in tri."
"/signed"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against!"
"against"
"the nerfs in current fashion are completly uncalled for and out of line"
"the speculation on the upcoming nerf is ruining my profits .also the underlying issue of completly removing a viable tanking option speed isnt about running away its about engaging"
"against over powering missles"
"i support this thread. down with the nano nerf."
"nano nerf is badmmmkay?"
"i don't see why they need to remove content from the game."
"!"
"boo. nano nerf is a fail idea."
"the dev blog was complete nonsense"
"they'd better nano the nerf !"
"against."
"just say no to the nano nerf! as well as the web nerf although this doesnt seem to be the topic for that..."
"signed. worst nerf ever. not even scripts were this stupid."
"my choice of ships doesnt really include nano-ships, but i understand how they are part of game mechanics and how competent people counter them.no to this absurd nerf."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"against. totally."
"against.we need a viable small-gang high-skill replacement if we're going to change speed mechanics."
"against!"
"against!"
"down with the nano nerf!"
"signed"
"support this threadagainst nerf"
"against!balance if u please. dont take away!"
"against!ccp failed at nerfing the nanoes and also nerfed rapiers, webs, blasterboats, and a bunch of other **** too, there should be no nano nerf and if their should be one this isn't it."
"this."
"i am against the nerf. keep nanos"
"the nerf sucks for million of reasons, tbh to many to write them down ... eg snipers overpowerd, missile and so on"
"against!yay we got 25 more pages then the for so i hope we win! :dthe nanonerf will kill alot of ships i know there are diferent sollutions for those ships but we dont want a change ccp will loose alot of members now if this gets to the tq server."
"against the proposed changes"
"against"
"rock/ paper/ scissorsbreak the scissorspaper is happyrock is happy, until it runs out of scissors to killthen rock is brokenpaper is happy, until it runs out of rocks to killthen paper is broken.if ccp break their scissors, the failure cascade begins."
"worst idea after the script thingagainst!"
"againstis just too much, not only make ships slower but nerf webs as well?just for trying to bring afterburners into the table? geez..."
"against it all the way"
"eventhough im amarr and a carebear, this is too muchis a whole minmatar nerf, what else are the rusty buckets good for if not speed?just to make drones hit? or missiles?nerf if you need too, but dont kill the game"
"its true that nano's need to be nerfed and reworked but ccp has taken it way too far, instead of spending time to think up a way of balancing things around the system that already exists they would rather bash everyting with the nerf bat till its totaly unrecognizable and redo the whole thing and basicaly say screw everyoen who has invested time and isk into the current system. so against 100%"
"patch overnerfs so many thing it isn't funny. very much against."
"i am against the current changes proposed, but however i am not against a speed nerf entirely."
"/sign"
"i'm not particularly likely to create an alt, but the thing that puts me off the idea the most is what you've said: having to go back and mess with all those short-duration trainings.but how about a simpler solution: letting the chosen skill train continually until it hits level 5?that's crude and lacking in sophistication, but usually if a skill is worth training from 2 to 3, it is also worth training from 3 to 4."
"i love this idea"
"i've made extensive use of the possibility of \"dark training\", having been unsubscribed for 4 non-consecutive months in order to train 4 hardcore skillz from level 4 to level 5, in the 16 months that i've been an eve player so far.i believe i'm pretty much done with \"dark training\" now, but it has been a great option to have, and i'm sure that many players appreciate it. ccp should think twice before they nerf \"dark training\", although there's no reason to boost it by allowing skill queues to be utilized while unsubscribed."
"up!"
"pro nerf"
"going slower is no fun, but everybody going slower is more fun for everybody. game balance sometimes requires sacrifice..."
"people now can't knock my carrier off station. fully support a+++please don't nerf carriers"
"support! for missiles :"
"moar"
"+++"
"oh yeah!fight like men again!"
"nerf it!but leave the ships that r meant to go fast such as interceptors alone! also leave webby's the way they r they be alright same with the warp scram/jammers"
"go for it!"
"support"
"/signed"
"support"
"yes!"
"all of you people who are voting for this nerf, do realize that everything that has to do with speed is being looked at to get nerfed, yeah?overdrives, afterburners, ship base speed stats are being lowered across the board, some bs base speeds being lowered as much a 15% you guys know all this right??just checking.....a friendly voice from the opposition.cheers."
"i am for the nano nerf, so - support"
"support."
"i am for the nerf."
"/signed"
"support"
"i support the nerf"
"fully supported"
"support"
"hell yeah !support!"
"i actually had a very long conversation with an ex-corpmate about how i was instinctively against 'nerfing' or any other brand of balancing. i went on to say that i'd be joining him in opposing the speed-nerf. to be honest, my resentment stems from the absolute castration of the arazu. due to 'balancing' they made it a cloaking cabbage that's only ever used for sitting at the back of the class wearing a dunce's hat in recon gangs or scouting the opposition and staying cloaked as they slaughter your gang. damps? yes i'm afraid they are sir, very damp indeed, try a kleenex.the point of mentioning this was that i've always been of the impression that 'nerfing' causes far more issues than it was ever designed to solve and compounds issues of balance. its possible to find a use for the arazu you just have to be prepared to look for a while and its possible to beat a gang who are loaded with falcons when you yourself have none, you just have to be prepared to think a little and try some off-the-wall set-ups. to use a well-worn eve-cliche, adapt or die.the problem, as so well-stated in the blog best i've ever read, is that adaptation meant getting nano'ed up yourself to the ultimate boredom of all. how many times have you seen 'no-mwd = death' in set-up thread's here or on shc? aximoatic? yep, carved in radon-spewing granite for us all to read for posterity. speed counters speed, so we're all in inties, hac's, recons, ea frigs and if we're really cheap cruisers. battleships? only for specific engagements, in one of my old alliances their use was banned. yep, battleships were banned for being 'fat-arsed barges'.so here's me voting yes for the very well-reasoned changes.just un-nerf the arazu while you're at it.no-one likes flying a cabbage."
"support in general"
"support"
"i support this!"
"support :"
"i'm for it. i've give my reasons elsewhere so i won't divulge, plus i'm sick of these threads so i'll leave it at this one. i think the nerf could be less severe, polycarbs, snakes, and nanofibers being the main three items that actually needed the nerf. i'm not sure about the rest. but i'm glad something is being done about the issue."
"yes, while the implementation will need balancing and the details ironed out, the concept is solid and will provide a lot more ability for tactical fittings. with lower-powered webs, larger turret, and hopefully missile ships will actually require support to take out smaller ships. which in my book is definitely a good thing."
"oppinion changed."
"for."
"support"
"support"
"it's good for eve. i support this."
"/signed"
"supported. i'm all for more variety of play styles in any game. when one set up works too well, everyone starts doing the same setup to keep up. less speed tanks = more variety."
"need nerfed"
"support"
"about time, i support."
"i support."
"supported"
"all for"
"support"
"needed a nerf"
"support!"
"support"
"great nerf."
"i support this."
"yes nerf it"
"bye bye tri"
"pathetic legion will dispand ?"
"it's about time.ar"
"make it so!"
"as long as hulks are still more efficient that's really not such a problem. support to capital mining module but no support to capital ship as suggested by others, it is stupid"
"supporting a chribba thread."
"this made me giggle :"
"i would totally eliminate the local-intellychat. if you want to see people billions miles away, you have to scan for it! take a recon, place some scan-tower that spread that intellgence infos to your corp or ally. but if you roam in the wild, you have to risk.why i can't see rats in belts from the stargate? or i can't see complexes without scan for it? so i can't see people in system if their ships aren't in overview-range or scan range if i scan."
"a big no for this ideaso now you want to turn this game into who has the most time, the most people at the time to enjoy the game?"
"ok, here is an idea which has been stated over and over again. if this is implemented, i would expect:the ability to put system scanner modules at poses without sov.that the ship scanner showed only ships that have pilots in them and some kind of iff system where you could \"ping\" a ships iff scanner, and it would return \"friend\" for blue or \"unknown\" for neut or hostile.local beacon counter ovbiously because a soverien power over a system with sov controls the gates, their members should have an accurate local channel showing everyone, since they control the gates and they should know who is in a system anyway."
"i love this idea. i fully support removing local as an intel tool, and replacing it with more active means of gathering intelligence. ganking someone in your system should be about just watching local for an arrival, and keeping an eye on your six should have more involved then popping a cloak every time an unknown pops up.moving the local info into constellation chat is just a step in the right direction, as long as i'm allowed to close both."
"it is so simple to fix local, without getting rid of it completely.make local chat a \"recent speakers\" channel, instead of an \"immediate\" one.then you have a total count, but the only faces you see are those that speak. you can still gab with all your friends... but you'll have no idea that some outsider is about unless they choose to start gabbing too."
"i think nobody should be visible to you in local chat unless they either speak in chat thereby breaking radio silence or they are directly in the same grid as you. the idea of me knowing who's jumping in and out of the system while i'm sitting in some belt so many au away is pretty unrealistic."
"agreed."
"the ability to research up t2 bpc's from invention should be good.no to creating t2 bpo' - this is what invention was to get rid of. more building slots on a character - will need more building slots in stations - though i'm all for mega advanced mas production as long as you have advanced mass production @ 5"
"supported."
"after reading over everything, it looks like people are pretty convinced that custom ships are a good idea.i'm not saying they aren't, but how would this change the market?personally, i'm not a fan of contracts - and as it is, you can't see which rigs are installed in a ship when its contracted to you. that said, i think that the market will need to be overhauled in order to accomidate the variations of each ship. if they are as customizable as some of the posts suggest, one dominix could have literally thousands of configurations. obviously we don't want to open up our market window to see a listing for each one of these different variations under ships->battleships->gallente->dominix... so how does the market get fixed to handle it?"
"qft... i don't think i could have put this more eloquently myself."
"*i want to expand the specialization further by making a char can only have one specialization skill. if players want to learn a new spec skill, the previous learned spec skill will be removed. i hope this will diversify the industry and enhance the 'niche' market.*time to consider removed t1 loots and replaced it with resources. alloy loot for t1 loot, named bpc for named loot, and turn everything into players produced market."
"i lend my support to this initiative.i know they are working on it, but they need to put more effort into fixing this key problem and less into adding new content that requires more large subsystems to tax the server. new content is great, necessary even, but not at the expense of server performance problems that prevent the grandest of all pursuits in eve, fleet warfare."
"praetor ... can i have my thesaurus back now please?you are right in everything you say, but like others have said, its not like ccp are unaware. what does frustrate the hell out of me though is the fact that they ccp are working on things like ambulation which can only put more stress on the servers and therefore increase lag even more.if somebody wants to walk around ... then let them do so in wow yes i said it ... i prefer my pixels in space.ccp have certainly come up with some good lag reducers and have been flamed for it before people came to appreciate the benefits ... we can all live in hope that they have another such ace up their sleeve."
"ccp if you would like to continue graciously accepting my money every month i want a playable game, and when you get into a fight which your game allows and from all appearances is designed for, and then you either spend the whole time staring at empty space, or disconnect and spend that time staring at a login screen it really seems like im not exactly getting my moneys worth here. in my option the situation is clear, instead of giving us an update that clogs up the server with empire fighting hows about you spend all that money and time you spent developing that and implementing something more worthwhile to the thousands and thousands of people that live in 0.0 and fight vastly more meaningful battles. now i dont expect lag to go away next update, but when you dont even load the field or when fc's dont want to take their fleet against the enemy because the lag would be so bad that it would turn jumpgates in insta-loose machines, there is clearly more of a problem with the game than ships that can go really fast.ccp please get the game working to the point where we can actually engage in the types of fights that 0.0 calls for, then add more to the game."
"fleet battles are partaken in by a minority of the playerbase, and lag is basically the most difficult problem there is to fix. also, fleet battles as they at the moment wouldn't be that much fun even without lag. flying around in blobs shooting one target at a time?it would be nice to have no lag for these battles, but its not going to happen most likely.both lag and fun issues would be will be? - see fw fixed by making the most biggest fleet battles pointless by changing mechanics."
"reduce lag. i want to see fleet fights like this in evenow thats what i'm talking about"
"no new content until lag is at least improved. doesn't do any good to have piles of new shiny ships that die before your screen even loads."
"thanks for all the kind and critical words. both are absolutely greeted with sincerity and gratitude because this is an issue that affects all of us and drives deep into the core of eve's future as the world's preeminent single-shard mmo.it was brought to my attention in another forum that i left out a suggested solution to the lag issue involved with these ever increasing massive fleet battles. i deliberately didn't include a suggested fix here to avoid having this thread descend into a debate of what is and is not technically feasible within the constraints of ccp's budget.i believe that ccp's initial shortsightedness in the early years of eve lead to the current lag fest that occurs on a daily basis, although i admit their efforts to correct the situation have resulted in some improvements and are truly herculean however they are band-aids. to scale eve to the size it needs to be and what it will become in the future will require totally new thinking about mmo software architecture and hardware deployment.i wrote a plea of emotion to engage us in our passion for what we love  eve online. sometimes you need to appeal to people on an emotional level to feed the process of change. motivate a man's soul and he will move accordingly.the hardware industry, specifically the oems who build the servers eve and the rest of the world for that matter uses based on intel and/or amd processors have let us down also. many providers robust industry applications the world over are lulled into believing that the next thing will fix their performance woes. we believe in the almighty predictive powers of moore's law to save us from our prior sins of inadequate programming based on flawed assumptions and poor planning for future expansion.moore's law doesn't specifically say processing power doubles. what gordon moore said was that; that the number of transistors that can be inexpensively placed on an integrated circuit is increasing exponentially, doubling approximately every two years. it is a common mistake to misinterpret moore's law and assume it gives us a free ticket to doubled processing power every two years or so. as wonderful as that would be however, this just isn't the case. processing power is also a function of the software doing the processing on the hardware transistors.this is where i completely agree with how the current status quo came to be. ccp definitely planned to be able to forklift upgrade their hardware when new cpus became available and just load the existing eve stackless python implementation on the new servers. eve was conceived as a serially threaded application on a scalar processor architecture. when at it's very conception as a massive single-shard should have been built as as an hpc application with dynamically linked threadlet microthreads within a highly parallel stream processor architecture. in ccp's defense though there are many new concepts and capabilities today that didn't exist when they conceived eve. ccp has had to bootstrap their way to success with eve and unfortunately in this business arrangement you cannot build out the best from the very beginning, so this current dilemma is completely expected in some ways.planning to do forklift upgrades is an understandable misstep, because nobody really wants to re-write their software all the time, it's expensive and time consuming. however ccp didn't plan perfectly for eve's massive growth and the subsequent node scalability necessary for players converging on a single system node."
"at the same time they have subtlety pushed us to higher and higher concentrations of players participating in fleet battles through additional features and functions. case in point, view the flash graphic at the top of the empyrean age feature page;"
"i like your vision, and i imagine that ccp shares it. i'm just rather fatalistic about the whole thing."
"up!"
"up!"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/not signedit is part of game mechanics"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"agreed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"corp trief?"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"k"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed !!"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"i've never experienced my drones bumping me out of allignment during warp out. good to know about the problem. seems like the elimination of collision detection would solve at least four problems1 drone clumping.2 ships being bumped by the drones.3 computing resource drain by the drones in calculating their individual collision avoidance.4 drones navigating around obstacles, such as structure and asteroids.not much to dislike there. perhaps it's time drones were able to partially phase out of normal space to allow them to pass through things, including each other. although you'd still have to be able to shoot them. that would only leave the problem of willful drones going their own way against orders.windjammer"
"support drones need to work as intened"
"i fully support this.the beauty of eve voice is that you do not have to exchange server information cos its liked to the chat channels. this is extremely useful when working with allies in factional warfare. people who say idiotic statements like vent/ts > eve-voice have obviously never engage in joint operations and therefore cannot speak on the matter.having fc'ed a number of op's with people outside of corp/alliance i know that it is extremely frustrating to spend the majority of your time revealing otherwise sensitive information. beyond this it is the worst nightmare of every fc to disconnect and not be able to tell the fleet to continue without them. therefore it is essential that an external client should be made especially since the only real reason for integration in the first place was to support the original moneymaking scheme."
"should have to stay in a corp for atleast 24 hours imo, except maybe npc corps."
"i completely agree, i wasn't online for the war, but from what i've heard its a total exploit, and rediculous."
"the suggestion of a per player war flag, perhaps as kills rights during a war, sounds like a pretty good solution to the situation. that way, you get to streamline the application process, allow for quick transfer of players from corp to corp, and solve this issue with warring exploits. that being said, i completely support the cause."
"i support the op."
"i agree with desert viper."
"i also completely agree with desert viper."
"i agree with desert viper, this is an exploit."
"i agree this is an exploit."
"i agree total exploit."
"this is what i would like to see. the problem with this \"exploit\" is the complete surprise attack that can happen when an application is accepted and the guy next to you can become a war target at the time of his choosing.having to dock to accept the employment offer would definately fix this."
"i like these ideas. i'm interested in making the titan a more tactical instrument. however, i'd like the value and/or impact to continue to justify the large investment required.i would like to see the doomsday become a defensive aoe effect with reduced or diversified damage. the range should be enough to be meaningful. i would select 200km and certainly not full grid. let's change the cooldown to 5 minutes. we need to make it a challenge to take one of these down.i'd like the offensive weapons to be tactical in nature. my favorite idea at the moment is to create a siege jammer module only for the titan. while activiated, no capital ships on the grid may go into siege or triage mode. so, the effect is that you can protect your pos from capital blob death. at the same time, you have to scramble and stay focused to prevent the titan from going down as well. these effects might result in more interesting fleet fights. i know that we already have blob issues. really though, i can't think of a suggestion that would eliminate that. so, if we have blobs, let's make them deal with multiple concurrent objectives. more tactical options and strategies will add diversity and interest to the fleet engagements.cheers m8s!"
"yes, a solo player with the work of hundreds to produce and maintain even one titan."
"actually, why not make titans a anti-bs capital. using doomsday becomes like s seige mode gives it massive tracing/sig res/exp velocity etc bonus making it able to fight bs's though hics can go under its guns.just about everybody wants to see titans in the front line fighting so what about that?otherwise a ew titan is just a capital sized stealth bomber using ew bombs"
"yes, we need moar sheepz not able to hit stuff. we dont have that already."
"i agree that the titan dd in its massive dmg + huge range version, and coupled with the tactic of deploying multiple titans, is overpowered.i dont disagree with the proposed changes, but in order to support the idea i would like to see it more thought through / refined.expanding on your idea, maybe more specialised effects, not neccessarily linked to race of titan as it already gets racial bonus, but maybe link those to titan modules like siege mods so that every titan pilot can decide to do these new effects, but maybe one titan can do a certain effect e.g. your proposed energy neutralization a little bit better than the other titans. this would not only open the possibility of future module balancing / introduction without entirely changing the ship itself but also add some options to fitting titans i guess. one of those titan modules could very well be a dmg titan mod, meaning the dd is kept in a certain way, but in future it needs to be focused on one hostile ship maybe with a limited aoe that could be used vs bs blobs that warp in all together to the same spot.nothing to do with your idea, but even that the dd is overpowered, if it gets removed in its current version, the defensive capabilities of a titan need to increase quite a bit. in order to not only make them viable to stay on the battlefield and to use whatever new offensive options they get, but also to ensure the investment that was needed for all those titans that exist already."
"you're right, it doesn't have to be racial by titan. how about making it so any titan can use any one ddd? and yeah, more than 4 of them isn't a terrible idea either."
"titans need a massive boost to their guns, to where 6-7 guns would do around 5-10k dps, and be able to track very slow bs, then they need their doomsday changed, the ideas here are a good start. if it was viable to fit guns instead of smartbombs, if committing a titan to a battle meant you not only get his bonuses, but he's actually useful beyond his dd, if hotdropping a titan right outside of a pos shield meant that you were going to lose dreads, then the titan would begin to be used how it should.... like the biggest ugliest mother****** ship out there, one you dread seeing warp in ontop of either your dread fleet or bs fleet... not because it could dd which you can sometimes warp out of, but because every second that titan is sitting there, it's doing massive damage to your fleet.problem is, this makes the titan vulnerable which encourages huge support fleets which means titans would create bigger blobs. as it is now, the dd is best for the game because the titan can act as a solopwnmobile, and not need 200 support ships to warp in and dd. how to solve this? i'm not sure :"
"like i said, giving them access to the good old-fashioned siege module is a good start. they have a pile of gun slots, and a capital tank. if the highs were ddd, siege, 6 guns, and they had cap and fitting to run 2x capital shield booster or 3x capital armour repper, they'd be able to tank a good 30k dps or so, and dish out better than 10k, on top of having a massive amount of ehp, a gang bonus like no other, and a crazy-awesome ewar effect. it'd be worth leaving them in the fight at that point. they'd still be killable, of course, and probably more killable than they are at presentsince they're in combat, instead of safed and cloaked, but they'd also be worth bringing to the table for reasons other than killing one support fleet per hour. it looks to me like it'd be a far healthier state of affairs."
"the doomsday needs to be replaced with something that ensures the titan is still deployed onto a battlefield and kept there for more time than it takes to align out, still has a unique and powerful role, but doesn't win a fight solo. making the doomsday scriptable would also add a new tactical dimension to a fight. it means titans are more flexible and would be used and therefore destroyed more often in combat.here are the ideas i like:aoe e-wara racial e-war effect that requires the titan to stick around to work. ideas that have already been mentioned include warp scrambling, mwd inhibition, webification, an ecm pulse and a neutralizing effect that removes a % of cap from every ship in range.weakened doomsdaylike a hybrid of current doomsdays and smartbombs. low damage pulses over a massive range designed to counter drones, fighters, frigates and finish off capsules. a real 'anti-blob' weapon that doesnt require a blob to counter it.focused blastthe doomsday acts as a special siege module, immobilising the titan for x amount of time but giving it a massive rof+damage modifier to its capital weapons. useful to turn the tide in capital battles and actually makes the racial titan weapon bonus useful.this script will require a cooldown before being used again.remote interferencesimilar to the siege module effect above, when this script is fired upon a target it does no damage, but prevents all remote assistance modules armour, shield and energy transfers being used on it for as long as the titan keeps the doomsday active. now the titan can be used to help kill other supercaps, but must be committed to a fight to do so.none of these scripts will wipe out an opposing fleet solo, and require the titan to be used alongside a support fleet to be effective.and as a side note, i would also like to see a new hi-slot 'repair bay' module for motherships and titans. this is activated and uses fuel akin to a clone vat bay and allows gang members within range to repair damage to their ships and modules.i did the majority of production for my titan. it's really not challenging to semi-afk haul freighters around via jumpbridges for a few hours."
"these are awesome."
"having a siege module for a titan would never work, simply because nobody is going to put a 50bn isk ship into siege for 10 minutes when it's very commonly known that any titan will die really fast to a gang of nothing more than 15 dreads. so either make a new siege module, or give a titan a bonus to cycle time and stront amount, to where the cycle is 20 or 30 seconds, and any titan can fit enough stront for 2 hours of constant sieging. make the titan commit to the battle, but make it possible to turn of his siege mod and have a chance of getting out if he gets hotdropped. this way, it's still going to take 30 seconds to a minute to be aligned out after he gets hotdropped, i think that's a sufficiently gaping vulnerability. to balance it however, again, the titan must be able to function better than any other ship, in normal fleet and capital combat."
"or give the titan another role bonus that says that siege mode doesn't prevent incoming logistics. might be overpowered, but it seems reasonable to me. also means you wouldn't need to change around the capacitor and stuff to allow it to have a bigger native tank.actually yeah, this is a better version of what i was saying above. thumbs up. interesting. i'm tempted to just say you'd use nanite paste from the corp hangar, but something along those lines is reasonable. stick up a new thread on the idea."
"at face level it sounds like a good idea. but in reality this is what will happen, 1. attacking fleet enjoys the light show2. everyone came fitted with cap boosters and a few 800's in the hold so they all restore cap.3. 10% of the fleet of 100 ships has a module with 25 heat damage, nanites applied4. continue to kill now nuetered titan. 5. since there is no reason to warp out, the 25 second warp recalibaration is not a problem.6. titan goes boom"
"titan would force a fleet to come prepared with cap boosters, nanite paste, and other special titan killing stuff in their backpacks, leaving less room for ammo and filling up power slots.titan would need a support fleet and could not be deployed on its own or it would get popped because it engaged a hundred ships by itself makes sense, stupid titan pilotoh yeah, and we all get a light show how are these bad things?"
"25 heat damage destroys a mod until docked in station and repaired.... no amount of nanite past can repair a fully damaged mod from my understanding of the mechanic.as for the cap boosters, trying to rely on those in fleet combat is pretty tough for most standardized fleets. when you factor cargo, lag, and potentially multiple doomsdays, you're fleet is going to be very crippled while titans are still more exposed by this point.10% chance of losing a mod was added to create both a permanent advantage of a dd weapon in a fight and a bonus to multiple dd while not being overpowered.again, if you time it right and lead a fight with a dd as your fleet is coming outta warp, that can be a huge advantage.--------------xttz, i understand the reason for scripting, but i'm not a huge fan of that particularly being the dd weapon.... maybe just different mounts capable of going on a titan in general."
"modules have 40hp. the heat damage could be increased so that some modules are untouched, some damaged, and some incapacitated."
"when i reactivate yaay later today, i'll up heat dmg then... my mistake."
"no brainer proposal is no brainer."
"/signed"
"no ! you are destroying another profession. call it market trading, or whatever you like. removing t1 loots only helps on group, 0.0 miners. and more lps for mission runners is a joke ! nice way to even devalue lps even more. and building \"named\" items will make the mission runner income even less, due more of those items be available.basic economics with that one, supply and demand.remove macro / farmers from belts and missions and then you will see mineral prices raise. especially the ice market.edit: btw what you all are talking is massive revamp of the industry profession. it all domino's into each other. one thing will change another and so on. you can't remove t1 loots without some other \"massive\" changes to both industry and mission running."
"i used to ninja run missions out in 0.0 a while ago, loot was the only was i could build more ammo as most npc 0.0 areas that arnt hevily occupied have little on the market. with no loot the small guy trying to do a few 0.0 missions will have to find another way to get the bits and bobs for ammo.also im sure the bigger alliances dont need to what with the increase in caps being able to jump ammo out but smaller 0.0 alliances/corps with limited cap ships use loot to reprosses for more ammo, replacment ships ect.i dont care either way what happens with loot drops tbh im just throwing some info out there"
"i like /signed"
"yes, but perhaps you should make that reply in a thread where the proposal actually is a no-brainer. this one's actually got a lot of possible problems."
"i still maintain that removal of t1 loot will not do what people want it to do: it will not cause miners to make as much isk as mission runners see this for an explanation of this assertion.so the question is, what's the purpose for removing t1 loot? is it so that the role of miners is clearly separated from the role of mission runners? if so, that's probably a reasonable goal to most people.before i support this i want to see concrete objectives that are the goals, rather than an \"it's broken fix it\" thing. for example: while many don't like the upcoming speed changes, the dev blog did state the design goals clearly at the beginning. given those goals, the changes they propose would be the right direction.also, i'm not sure that miners can provide the current mineral demand of the eve population, so removal of loot would cause a massive depression as people can't get the resources they need when they want them. of course, maybe the apparent \"demand\" for minerals is mostly due to trading - it's hard to tell without more information. perhaps the miners are more than up to the task.so, the relevant discussion i'd like to see in any discussion here in assembly hall, not just this one:what are the goals of the proposed change?can the eve universe tolerate the changes without reducing the current \"standard of living\" for the pilots?"
"that is part of the problem.. it's very easy for them to rack up on standing so they work the level 4s and flood the market with cnrsthe only thing you can do now is probe them out and steal the mission objective which causes them lost standing, lp, and time.they also get very upset :"
"while i don't look at the issue as acrimoniously against ccp as many on this thread, and i do understand that dedicating employees at ccp to hunting these guys down is expensive as are the possible legal ramifications, i still would like more action taken against these people.you can dress up whatever is happening to you any way you want, but unfortunately the root of the matter is not the vigilantes. it's you. you're getting ganked because you're not paying attention. people aren't going to have any sympathy the moment you admit you're windowed out of eve and expecting a safe, steady income flow. i usually don't support \"gank\" activity of \"innocents\" in eve as a matter of my own temperament, but i have to say they're right in this case.it's the same as someone deciding to afk in a supposed \"safe spot\" in a 0.0 system for hours on end while they go do something else for whatever reason, then coming home and being upset when someone probed him out and popped him. or freighter haulers who autopilot afk warp system after system, then are surprised that someone scanned their slowboat and suicide ganked it for the goodies it carried.i have a problem with ganking when it occurs to players who are paying attention but are helpless due to game mechanics, lag, and similar things, but you could save those hundreds of millions of isk simply by paying attention to the game.yeah, mining is boring and it's so easy that you can do it while you're doing something else. but that doesn't mean you should."
"to fix farming macro or 'legitimate', whatever.a limit the agents avail to nuub schools lev2q20 max. limit the ships that can be flown by a nuub pilot to cruisers or smaller, no mining barges, no freighters.b limit agents avail to non-militia npc corps lev3q20. no freighters. mining laser output is cut by 30% as an automatic tax.c war declaration flags are persistant per player, not per corp. jumping corp does not remove the flag until the end of that declaration cycle. joining a new corp does not transfer the war flag to the new corp, it merely allows the new corp to assist their war-declared member if they come under attack and thus gain aggression, but this lapses normally.neutrals, not in the war-declared member's corp, gain a war flag as well as an aggression flag for assisting pilots being attacked by a war target. that war flag is persistant until the end of the active war cycle."
"ive an idea to stop isk farmers. once a day you get a message that pops up on screen to get your ship into a station. theres a 15 minute countdown that flashes to do this and when this over another countdown appears on your screen and in this time no concord action or gate guns are activated. this will catch out the isk farmers as this action will be randomised daily and at this time pirates and gankers can have a field day well 15 minutes to kill anyone that caught in space with no aggro timer or sec loss.ok flame away"
"ok, i support much of what's being said in this thread, but the comment above is seriously off the deep end. how can you justify bringing the law into this in such a way? selling virtual items should be illegal? that's as asinine as any law proposal i've ever heard. fraud is when someone misleads another to purchase an item that they have misrepresented to be something it isn't at least, that's one example of fraud. please, tell me how selling a virtual item for real money is fraud by any definition of the word? it's already against the eula to do rmt and other selling of virtual eve assets, that's as far as we need to go. eve has all the power they need to suspend accounts and ban players."
"my 0.2 isk. assume, on average, 50% of players will not buy isk, 25% are farmers, and 25% will buy isk. what you need to do is get the players who are buying isk onto your side. the simplest way to do this is to reward players for turning in rmt characters and reporting sites.ex. i'm flying my ship around trading when i get an eve-mail for a website where i can go to buy isk.maybe i report the mail, maybe i just don't care and delete it. if i report the mail, ccp determines it's legit and does something, ccp gives me some isk. even if they just give me, say, 1 million isk, that's 1 million isk i didn't need to make missioning, etc. heck, give me the equivalent of 1 milion isk in loyalty points with a factional navy/police force for reporting criminal activity. all of a sudden everyone reporting these people has an incentive to both make reports and make factual reports as you only get paid if the gms find something.this takes more isk out of the economy than ccp gives me, so there is a loss of isk, but i get rewarded for caring.second: penalize players less for buying isk off of a site, if they report the site. this turns the players against the site. ex: i buy 100 mil isk off of some website, then tell ccp that i've done it and give them the details. ccp then can go in and say 'hmm, this guy got 100 mil from this website, and this character' and follow the money back, ban all of the characters involved in the money trading scheme, and confiscate the isk.they probably do some of this already, but now they have player support and a much easier time tracking people down. everyone who doesn't report the rmt site is caught, and the money is taken along with a warning from concord or scc and possibly a security status drop. the warning should read something like this:\"dear <player name>,as part of an ongoing investigation into illegal isk trading, an informant gave us information indicating that you acquired <amount confiscated> illicitly. these funds have been confiscated pending investigation. you received these funds on <transaction date> from <other transaction party>. for his services, the informant was given <amount of isk and/or lps and appropriate faction> as part of our informant policy, which states that any person reporting the existence of an illicit isk trading scheme will be rewarded if the investigation is successful. as part of the investigation, concord has lowered your security status by <amount>.the player or players who report the rmters are allowed to keep all of the isk or some of the isk, or a percentage of all of the isk obtained, ask the economist which would do the least damage while creating a viable incentive.if you just target the people selling the isk, all you'll do is cause prices to increase because the companies doing this increase their risk. maybe you'll catch some people, but it's a drop in the bucket. once you turn the player base against the farmers specifically the player base that uses farmers, you'll notice some gains. plus you make the players themselves afraid of not turning the isk sellers in because if they don't, someone will.i don't buy isk, but i'm a bit poor in eve. if ccp would reward me for buying isk and using the transaction logs to turn the farmers in, i might buy a little bit and turn the rmters in. i won't shell out 20 bucks for ccp to do its job, but i wouldn't mind buying cheap isk if it'd help ccp catch those responsible. i know that a lot of people will argue 'no! we shouldn't have to reward people for doing this, they should out of the goodness of their heart.' i'd agree with that, mostly. the problem is that the people buying the isk aren't going to report it under the old system. i feel like this system encourages people to track down people trading isk illegally, rewards people for using ccp to handle the issue instead of taking it into their own hands."
"i've posted this some months ago in the ships and modules section, with limited success. please, take a quick look on my arguments.1 skilltimeactually, the time between the covetor and the hulk is less than 2 days just exhumers iii. this is pointless. no one is actually flying a covetor, except for pricing reasons. i suggest to reduce astrogeology to lvl3 for the covetor, or increase exhumers to 4 for the hulk. this isn't much, just some 5 days.2 fittingall barges come with only one med slot. obviously to fit a rock scanner, as even a 10mn afterburner requires too much powergrid. i don't see any reason why this ship is beeing held so limited in it's options. miners are sitting ducks anyways. with a 3 med cov and a 2 med retriever, they could at least try to defend themselfes. i would be very pleased if the csm would bring this forward in their next meeting."
"i defer to chribba on a better judgement of the covetor's value for mining veld! but, i'm fairly certain he'll just tell you to get a revelation fit with m2/mdcm2s.do the macro miners still fly these death traps?"
"agreed on both points.for 1, i think reducing the skill requirements of the covetor rather than increasing the skill requirements of the hulk is the solution; astrogeology v is one of the big time sinks that go into transitioning from the retriever to the covetor.for 2, i like your suggestions, but let's be careful about making barges too capable for balancing purposes. it is and should be very dangerous to operate a barge solo in low- or null-sec, and we shouldn't be making it easier. however, the ability to fit an ab would be very useful: these ships are so painfully slow it takes ages just to travel from one end of an asteroid belt to another when they have to."
"thanks for your reply tesseract. i understand your concerns about 2, but i don't see a big problem in more meds. ok, you could skip that rock scanner and make an ore overview setup, which would leave you then with 2 or 3 meds for pvp/whatever. what would one possibly fit? 2 is too few for anything you call a tank, 3 maybe slightly, but without those t2 resist of the hulk ...you could go with an ecm, granted. but you can actually do it as well if you dismiss that rockscanner not checked cpu for this. to be honest, the idea for this came when i was high sec mining in my hulk, can flippers in frigs and cruisers flying around me and stealing my wrecks, looking for a fight. fitting a hulk with webber/scrambler and see if my t1 hobbies could deal with that frig would be interesting, but 100m risk? and not satisfactory insurable! in a 17m covetor with a scrambler and invu, i would have tried"
"/signed"
"ships held in the ship maintenance bay smb of capital ships are unable to hold cargo other than charges. originally this was added to force a change over from using hauling carriers to having people use more rorquals and jump freighters. it's now seven months later and this has happened. these ships are commonly available on the market and used to move cargo by those who need to do so. mineral compression has been nerfed severely, with the size and composition of many items changed. so now i have to ask - why is this annoying restriction needed?issues:a while ammo and charges can still be held, many ships require other items in their cargo to be used. cyno-fitted ships no longer keep their ozone with them. many combat ships often change their fittings in space using the refitting ability of an sma/smb. they now need to rely on corporate hangar arrays and shared roles with other corp members in order to keep things like this outside a station. b this restriction affects the anchored ship maintenance array at a starbase. i can't think of any logical reason for this beyond programming laziness. no one is going to pick up an anchored starbase module and move the ships with cargo inside them. sma's are however very useful for players in remote or unfriendly space to keep their ships. this restriction makes it much harder to keep fuel or alternate fittings without relying on shared corporate hangar tabs. if ccp wants to encourage pvp in more of 0.0 space, one of the first steps should be to make it easier to live there without a station to dock in.c abandoned ships are much harder to clean up. previously if someone left old ships inside a starbase shield, a carrier could simply fly by and scoop them up. now it's a much bigger chore to clear away old ships such as rookie ships left in a starbase with 1 unit of trit in their cargo - every ship much be boarded and moved one at a time. this of course also applies to ships left in starbases from long before the cargo nerf.this restriction is no longer needed, please remove it."
"please do this"
"well stated, makes good sense. i support this proposal."
"voting for great justice"
"do it! ****!"
"agreed"
"yes"
"\"oops you have a cyno frigate that you want to scoop into your bay? too bad, it's got liquid ozone in its cargo.\"\"oops this ship had alternative shield repping modules to swap for its weapons, and did so at your carrier's maintenance array. can't put that in your smb!\"please change this. please for the love of god. it's stupid and it makes me hate you just a little more."
"devs, if it really bothers you then just change it to not being able to store a ship with more than 1000m3 in its cargo bay.please"
"yes"
"i see the reason for the change, but it was ham-fisted, and i'm not convinced it was necessary. either do something better, or just don't do anything at all, but \"ammo only\" is really not the right answer."
"trying explain to people, what counts as ammo, what doesn't, that stupid autoload of trit....this change would make life so much easier in dealing with dumb newbies/goons. having to go 2 jump bridge hops, to switch from being a priest domi to something with range.... big pain. leaving my fittings in an open access hanger is not a good idea either..."
"yes, i totally disagreed with this nerf on rp grounds and on the fact that it just annoys everyone, whilst encouraging nothing jump freighters and rorquals are way more efficient at moving things than carriers used to be, so if you need to move lots you will continue to use these ships."
"if i ever decide to rp an amarr slave trader and want to have a carrier filled with haulers full of slaves, can i? guess not /signed"
"completely agree. the reason for this change is no longer relevant, time to roll-back to the way things were. its a pain in the neck to load up my exotic dancer, booze, smokes, and my trusty copy of pax amarria onto my pvp boats each time i go out.*edit for approval."
"agreed."
"is there any reason not to allow this? i.e. right click on a scan result from probes, create bookmark. i don't really know the backstory behind probes, but presumably they give your ship coordinates to warp to so why shouldn't we be able to bookmark it? the results get cleared when you change session, so you can't dock and get another ship to warp to results. in the case of exploration, this means i either have to warp my expensive cov ops into a potentially dangerous site, or i have to leave it at a safespot while i warp in my pod to bookmark. in the case of player probing, it means you have to warp in the cov ops first which may get decloaked and alert the target when it would be more practical to go straight in with a combat ship."
"fixing the ghastly ui issues would make me happier than three icelandic girls spending a vacation with me...well ok, almost.why is it not done yet? when can we expect it to be done?as far as i'm concerned, the ui bugs are the top of my list of reasons to not login."
"i have a ui issue that is really more annoying than anything.the border of a window or dialog will not be where it's drawn and you can see that by trying to resize a window or even just close one.restarting the client fixes it but yeah, it's annoying."
"i've been saying this for months now. look up xaen's multi-year-old list of ui improvements, the vast majority of which still haven't been implemented. it's pathetic."
"do it"
"edit: this is just a guess i am not an it professional he's rightmy guess as to why it was removed. the ship you are piloting is the only ship that can be renamed, refitted, ammo reloaded, etc. all other ships are database items and by limiting the actions that can be performed on them streamlines server-client relations.edit: found a good reason for this feature"
"/signed.au contraire, fahtim... its yet one more example of something that got changed for no real benefit. you're telling me that renaming an item is going to slow down a database, versus having to initiate a session change associated with jumping into -each- ship?as an it professional with over 15 years experience in dealing with databases, i find this laughable that it was even changed steathily as it was. it not only makes the user work harder, but is a pointless necessity that could have been left well enough alone.oh, not even counting the amount of times the user has to click only to find scotty tell them to hang on a few more seconds. what? ridiculous."
"man i have no idea why they removed this but would be awsome to see it come back."
"i was just giving a reason as to why ccp did it, i never said they were stellar programmers like yourself. well i guess they are stellar programmers in the literal sense. or is that the figurative. trying not to be so post-ironic.changing my mind however b/c i'm sure this is a pain for the people running our free frigate program, didn't think of that earlier."
"i like this idea too, its not a game breaking change or anything, just an annoyance that would be nice to get rid of."
"yep, this has been ******ed since like forever."
"making mining more interesting to the degree that a human miner is willing to do it while paying attention and is encouraged to do so while paying attention in order to maximise his profits as opposed to the current system where mining is done as a semi afk activity at best.i realise that fluctuations on mining activity ripple through the markets in eve given that it's one of the primary sources for materials for the majority of items sold on the market or should be, but thats a different issue. supply and demand however dictates that these fluctuations will be ironed out reasonably well.for example, i'm primarily a mission runner at the moment running right on the edge of low sec occasionally getting missions into low sec itself surprisingly i've never had pirate trouble since basing myself there despite people telling me that every route into low sec is a multi heavy interdictor gate camp with no chance of getting through. however, say the price of tritanium went up to 4 isk per unit? well i've got a mining barge on standby to help cover that demand and would happily put missions on the back burner for a time to deal with that.and i'm sure many others out there would be the same, mission runners, traders, industrialists, pvper's, pirates etc. if the opportunity for profit were there, people will take advantage of it."
"on a general bad idea to make mining more tedious without any advantage for the player doing it, running around in a belt to find the 10% of asteroids that aren't barren is the worst part. want to have that kind of fun? form a gang, pick a belt, tag every asteroid with a number from 1 to 10 and then throw a 10 sided dice. mine only the asteroid with the number you generated. you will see very fast how fun is running around with your barge to lock the next available asteroid. mining with guns is already better in most situations, you really want to make it always better?"
"well if you want to mine a clearly marked barren asteroid then that's your business. however, if you read through my idea you'll realise that the asteroids only change to being a barren asteroid once all the ore is depleted out of them. when these respawn as fresh asteroids then they show as being mineable.want to be locating easy ore day in day out? don't strip the noob belts clean.besides, this only applies to the newbie belts. if you're in the position where you've skilled up into a mining barge then you take your mining serious enough to go hunting for more lucrative, untouched belts using the exploration system.ironically, i'm of the belief that mining with guns should not be as large a source of minerals as it currently is. hence why i supported the idea of removing t1 loot drops and the idea of adding t1 components to the game.mining should be the source of minerals.npc rats should be the source of components.both should be needed for production thus making both roles equally important in the production chain."
"i support the op's idea and the direction it's taking, but i would also like to add my support for the addendum i quoted above. these additions should add extra value for those who choose to make use of them, but they shouldn't be mandatory."
"you are really naive and haven't really read my example. 1 so long as veldspater stay the basic mineral for tritanium it will be mined by people that need tons of tritanium, independently if it is a noob mineral or not. it was mined when mining omber and kernite gave x3 or x4 times the isk of veldspater, it is mined today that it is the best high sec mineral. 2 i got that your not barren asteroid are identifiable at range, the point is that they will not be near each other, so you will need to move from one to the other probably you don't know how the tag work, so: they are visible if you enable the relative column in overview, the proposal was to get the feeling of moving from 1 not barren asteroid to the next. with your idea it is almost guaranteed that there will not be a second not barren asteroid within your stripminers range even less if you are using mining lasers;3 your idea is that 10% of the barren asteroids revert back randomly every day. you really think that they will survive much after dt?\"don't strip the noob belts clean\" and that what would mean? go there and run a cycle on each asteroid each day? you have already substituted the current system where all asteroid grow in content every a few day with your where 10% of the barren asteroid respawn. so the better system to get the highest number of asteroids is exactly the reverse, generate as much barren asteroids as possible,as it will increase the number of new spawned full asteroids."
"i don't believe that i stated anywhere in my idea that this would completely replace the current system for replenishing belts, it's intended to compliment that system.so basically if you mine an asteroid but leave some of the ore behind then it will replenish slowly as it does at the moment.however, if you fully deplete an asteroid it won't pop like it does at the moment. instead, it'll be represented as a barren asteroid and have a 10% chance each downtime to return as an asteroid with it's ore content maxed out.so, if you want to be guaranteed a steady supply of ore then you never want to mine out an asteroid completely, however if you want to be hunting for single asteroids that could keep even a hulk running for multiple cycles then you'll want to find the fresh asteroids that have replaced barren asteroids."
"so we have the even worse situation with a belt full of low content asteroids and some hidden as they are all not barren good asteroids, and you need to shoot your your scanner 15 km range or a little more, at best limited by your barge sensor range to the asteroid to know the mineral content. we are still at the same point. i think that making a barge running around to find the right asteroids is bad, you seem to like it.you have more than a year experience in game, so, if you have specced for them, you should know how slow are the barges, and how nonproductive is to run around dropping 1 can here one there each time your ship is full. even worse yout idea will ruin group mining as people will not have the possibility to mine decent asteroids and share a can for easy pick up for the hauler."
"or, you could use a mining frigate in a prospector role to locate the good asteroids before your barge even gets to the belt thus minimising the maneuvering you need to do with the flying housebricks that are mining barges. the idea isn't to support a semi afk style of play but to reward those who put in the effort to locate the decent deposits.you seem fixated on the idea of just warping to a belt in a barge and hoovering up anything in range like you can currently. now this is still possible with the exploration sites, again, taking the effort to locate such a site. if you personally don't have the skills to locate these sites i'm sure that there are people in your corporation that can and will for a reasonable share of the profits to cover their expenses and time.if you're a solo miner however then it just means you need to work a little harder to keep up with those using teamwork effectively.edit:having re-read this i apologise if this came across as being a little too harsh, this wasn't my intention."
"i am fixated on the idea that requiring more effort for the same return isn't making mining better, is making it worse."
"i agree. that could introduce in costly/material reapair system -> isk sink -> improve economy.pilots may try to disable ships warpcore, or weapons. even in missions, where someone ask for \"bosses have to flight the battle\", pilots may disable bosses ships as a mission itself say, no need to kill everything.it's annoying to see that a ship with only 1 one structure hitpoint is 100% combat efficent like a full shield/armor/structure ship.....i think this would be a hard revamp of the combat system."
"this is a good point... and a good balance.targeting sub-systems would require that they be pronounced enough to lock onto in the first place. so i could see the option only appearing for certain classes of ships to begin with. a frigate is so small by comparison that you could try to aim for the engines and wind up hitting the shield generators instead. plus they are easy enough to kill that \"called shots\" wouldn't be worth it.while a titan, or even a bs, are surely big enough to land shots on specific systems without too much collateral damage.perhaps one solution to this dilemma would be adding a stronger sensor module. kinda like the ship or cargo scanners. sure, it takes up an extra slot... but so what. you get to disable ships rather than just destroy them, you can deal with one less slot.so you lock onto a bs, and fire away. or... you lock onto the bs, and then start scanning. now an extra window opens up, displaying the sensitive systems onboard. you click on one, and start to lock on. you'd be using the same weaponry, which means your scan resolution will factor in... and the effective signature radius of such a tiny part of the ship could be impossible for one bs to fire upon another bs. but... those little frigates flitting about could definately get a lock onto the soft underbelly of the opponent's titan or mom.so here we go... \"called shots\" for ships sub-systems. you can attempt it in your mega if you like, or you can hand the job off to that little enyo someone decided to bring along just in case."
"i really like the idea of subsystem targeting, and i have a way that it might be possible in a preliminary stage without too many balancing headaches:the chance of hitting a ship's module is relative to the weapon's signature resolution vs. the ship's signature radiusif the target's shields are up, you can hit high-slot modulesif their armor remains, you can hit high-slot and mid-slot modulesif their armor is gone, you can hit all modulesthis also has the side effect of giving a boost to ships that regularly engage larger targets:-hacs vs. battleships-frigates vs. anything-battleships vs. capitals-capitals vs. motherships and titansi think that might work as a first step."
"how could that possibly be implemented? another right click menu? of course it would be nice to do that, but i assume it's ages to early to speak about, and there are a lot of other things to do first. taramics idea looks much more convertible. just like critical hits in other fantasy games."
"lots of miners are afraid to go into low sec or 0.0. mining barges are too slow and fragile to survive solo/small gang low sec or 0.0 mining ops. how about adding a new t2 mining cruiser that can mine more than it's t1 counterpart but less than a mackinaw/hulk/covetor. if it can mine more/as much as a barge then we would just see them in high sec a lot. also it shouldn't use strip miners or mining lasers, it should be able to use it's kind of mining laser, one that can use mining crystals. it should also get a bonus to mining range this way it can be far away from the warp to 0 point on a belt and far away from scram range. a bonus too cargo capacity and drone damage/mining yield also might be a good idea. the slot configuration should be dependent on the race, but there should be enough low slots to strike a good balance between nano mods and cargo mods. this way it can hold ore, and also align to warp quickly. the ultimate goal of this ship class is to encourage more people to venture from high sec and go into low sec and 0.0 and to diversify the ships you can fly. here is the abridged version.- t2 mining cruiser.- custom mining lasers that can use mining crystals.- bonus's to mining laser range, cargo capacity, drone damage/mining amount.- slot configuration allows for nano and cargo mods.- mines less than the good mining barges covetor/hulk/mackinaw- encouarges pilots to venture into low-sec/0.0."
"i approved this idea's prototype thread in s&m, and i approve this one. a more durable, cruiser for mining is a nice idea to add some variety to low sec. if they mine less than mining barges, they won't crowd empire, but with increased survivability they may make some miners bold enough to enter low sec. should this happen, there will most likely be an increase in mining ops and even solo mining, thus increasing the population in low sec, which is more fun and money for pvper's and miners alike.i like to think that these proposed ships are to mining barges as blockade runners are to industrials."
"i was thinking about that for sometime.totally agree!!"
"would this perhaps go along with the request for a visible timer on modules?everyone has suggested the rotating clock animation to signify how long before your miners or reppers run another cycle.could that get implemented, and made sure to appear obvious, to satisfy this request for more noticable activity?"
"and if the learning skills would be some sort of boost skill like drugs. boost that fade away the more they are used, until no more sp remains and noone could use again. some sort of \"pool\" to spend after char creation to speed up your knowledge.to newbies it would be a boost, more exiting esperience learning new skills, piloting more ships, using more weapons. to veterans, they don't need them more as they already know the \"how to\".. as my 3m sp in learnig actually are: time boost."
"if a player is only going to play the trial, and never beyond that... then of course they wouldn't train learning skills. they'd ask \"why do i need those? to learn faster? i don't plan on sticking around that long anyways.\"but the vast majority of players intend on sticking around for a while... at least until they get suicide ganked and can flipped a few times and get fed up with the attitude and atmosphere of pvp pirates. but i digress...players use the free playtime during trial periods to get the learning skills out of the way, because they are such a necessity to getting anywhere in a reasonable amount of time. and despite the repeated attempts, no one will ever raise a valid argument that learning skills are still \"optional\". only about as optional as drinking water and sleeping. sure... you can go without it... but you'd probably regret it.making isk, and buying/replacing ships... those things happen all the time. but you can't do any of it until you learn the skills first. that's why players reinforce that learning skills may not be the only thing you study, but they are a very high priority.i said it before, and i'll say it again. i'm for getting rid of the learning tree. it's not \"something people could do to make themselves better\". it's \"something people have to do if they want to play the game sometime this year.\"if getting rid of them means that each and every skill takes days to complete, then so be it. i don't imagine that ccp would do that to their playerbase, since a lot of folks would say \"this takes too long\" and leave for other mmos.if that means that those skill points just evaporate completely, with no form of reimbursement, then so be it. sure, some players might whine about time spent... but how would you rationalize *spontaneously* rearranging memories and training to support the redistribution afterwards? you went to sleep one night, and forgot \"how to study faster\"... and woke up the next morning knowing how to pilot a hac instead?"
"i agreed to the need of revamp the mission system. really good ideas.for your asking question about how to a player could create a mission... if a corp or an alliance wolud create a contract-like post asking \"we will pay 5 billions isk if you destroy/bringtoreinforcedmode the <corpname> pos in <systemname><moonnumber>\" ? maybe, \"before <date-time>\"? or even \"we will pay 200 millions isk at everyone who partecipate the siege todestroy/bringtoreinforcedmode the <corpname> pos in <systemname><moonnumber>\" ?"
"i approve of anything that adds more random elements to the pve game.ar"
"agreed. and maybe blinkng or changing colour on the time numbers, just to warn."
"with the current contracting system it is impossible to contract ships that are fitted with faction or t2 crystals as the game seems to think they are a damaged item. this is the only type of ammo affected this way and it is incredibly burdensome and annoying. if someone using rails wants to give their ship to a corp mate to move in his carrier he simply contracts it over and its done. if someone using lasers that happen to have faction or t2 crystals fitted wants to they have to jc/fly all the way there, wait for the other person to be around and then manualy trade the ship to them which then completely defeats the purpose. secondly it means that you cannot even attempt to sell ships stuck in hostile stations via contract if they happen to have faction crystals fitted. it is incredibly rediculous that this is still an issue this long after contracts were introduced. there has to be some way to redo the system for t2 and faction crystals to distinguish them from damaged modules/ships/drones etc."
"i don't need viagra, i'm hard as a rock baby see what i did there"
"a/s/l?"
"timeless/asexual/being macromined"
"i think lavista vista must be the only person in the galaxy who doesn't get junk mail spam advising this"
"well. i do.but i never read any of them, as i don't need a larger **** or anything."
"^^sounds like we dont need to be nerfing nano's....instead nerf lv!!!!!"
"or nerf both!"
"we've all had it happen. we're involved in a battle and manage to dock up with heavy damage. for whatever reason, we were unable to use our repair modules while out in space, and now, we're deep into armor or hull.we're low on isk, and the repair centre says, \"it'll cost you more than you have, my friend.\"you think, \"that's ok, i'll just undock and use the repair modules when it's safe to do so.\"the battle rages on outside, and ends, and you're ready to fly back into 'safe' space to rep up. no such luck! you're too badly damaged to undock! you don't have the isk to repair at the station facilities! what do you do?well, if you're just sitting in the docking area anyway, why not just use those repair modules of yours? save yourself the isk of using them, and you still have to wait out the repair time, right?ccp, let us use repair modules while docked."
"here, here!"
"while it takes away from the repair shop's profits, right in front of their faces... you'd normally just undock and repair right outside their back door while having a smoke..."
"there, there!"
"so as we can see i have out did my reputation far by creating such havok with this forum heheh....."
"this is an interesting post. imo ingame circumstances have a lot to do with the stances on the very issues we are talking about. this is why this csm project is fluff and the reason it will inevitably fail imo.since politics is an intrical part of eve you cannot seperate the two. the higher levels of this game are all about posturing, and using any methods created by ccp including the forums to win and in some cases metagaming such as buy time cards and other less then desirable means.your proposal of \"dropping politics\" is essentialy saying \"ignore that portion of the game\". since the politics along with the controlling of territory that is entwined with that is the reason many people play the game what you are asking is impossible.good suggestion goonies as some people are not cut out for the job, however since ingame you are my enemyincluding these forums and all that it pertains, i will not allow you to use the forums, the csm or any other body, or element of this game to gain any advantage, thus in this instance i will disagree with you. the sole reason has already been stated.you have two standing members in the csm. i reserve the right to change my opinion at any time, to include a time when there are no goonies on the afformentioned board, or when/if i suddenly become allied with you, or your goals coincide with mine.if that reason is not cute and fluffy enough for anyone then welcome to eve, and either appreciate it or dont...i dont really care.see my sig for my opinion on other hot topics such as this."
"i dont mean to distribute nonsense or take part in any dibocal's but i do state and here me out i just aquired this character from the forums and was checking out all the post the previous owner had placed so ... pleese disregard any old postings of this character for i did not and repeat was not me who partaked in this discussion ...."
"agree"
"bumpage to get your attention. interested in opinions"
"actually... don't give the titan weapons at all!allow it to anchor itself where ever and go into this mobile outpost mode, and while in that mode it has the cpu/powergrid of a medium pos tower. while it's in siege sentry guns can be anchored around it or any other pos weapons system. any number of these systems can be anchored at once, up to the starbase defense skill of the anchoring player.drawback: it takes 10m to enter siege, and 30m to unsiege. once it leaves siege mode anything anchored around it goes into storage mode like an anchored can and can simply be unanchored just like a can.thus, a titan can anchor itself at a belt, have someone deploy a handful of pos guns to kill the spawns, and the belt can safely be reduced to so much rubble before moving on to the next. or do the same thing at a chokepoint gate to serve as a defensive bastion.if the pilot logs off the titan remains where it is, in siege mode, just like a pos. all logistic modules shut down but sentry systems continue to function."
"i like the concept hastrabull. but i would not make the titan immobile in siege mode. that makes it useless as noone will risk a titan under those circumstances. i would let it use up strontium, and give it capital weapons with say a 1000% damagebonus compared to 625% for dreads in siege and without the tracking penalty so it can also hit battleships. a real monster, but killable and not capable of blowing up a whole fleet with a single push of a button."
"well making it inmobile was one of the main points. titan would change into some sort of outpost but with very high resistances/hp and with huge offensive capabilities +bonus to damage/tracking.in shortinmobile but hard to destroy and with huge firepower + shelter for smaller ships. something similar to command ship from nexus - jupiter incident"
"i think making it immobile in order to use dd and get decent dps out of its guns is decent. maybe just make it use a standard siege module or a titan version that is similar but have it get a higher bonus like malachon said of around 1000% or maybe more. don't increase the timer over 10 minutes. even at 10 minutes most people will never use their dd. make it an hour and you will make the module unusable. you could then make the dd render the ship completely inactive for say 30 seconds to a couple of minutes or so all modules deactivate, can't move, can't warp etc. i'm not sure how these things would balance it, some testing would be required."
"something like this yes"
"you all suggest the wrong thing. titan should be turned into a mobile outpost with defensive capability not offensive.*titan can turn into an immobile outpost with huge gang bonus*with shield, friendlies can just stay outside the shield and fight, if they take damage, move in and dock up to repair"
"i'd rather have a titan go offline unable to move, fire, or activate modules for x minutes after firing off a dd."
"i still like the siege idea into \"station mode\".it could anchor anywhere, so it doesn't need sovereignty or something as has been suggested before. and it also doesn't need a nearby moon or planet also been suggested before. i'd also say that certain systems should only be available in different modes. for instance...1 people keep complaining of database errors if a titan has passengers docked, and it tries to jump. so only allow docking while in station mode. if it tries to shift back to ship mode, then everyone is ejected, or it simply can't shift back until everyone has left on their own. this might cause problems, if a ship is aboard and the titan really needs to leave in a hurry... but it's your fault for allowing them inside to begin with. 2 different weapons systems should only be available in different modes. i think the aoe dd could be reserved for station mode as a defense. and a new aimed dd could be used for ship mode. then it can either stay still and blast the whole battlefield, or it can move about and blast individual targets like other titans.3 i think that the titan could project its shields around friendlies while in station mode. but i wouldn't give it any extra shields during that time either. titans already have hundreds of thousands of shield points... but it could be an option to protect the fleet while that lasts. when the titan is reduced to armor, then the fleet hiding under its skirts is vulnerable as well.4 one extra tweak i suggest everytime the multiple titans per fleet issue is raised. if an aoe dd is used, then the area is irradiated. and successive dd used in that same area before it is allowed to dissipate will bring detrimental results. either the damage suffers \"stacking penalties\". or the weapon has a chance of not firing. or maybe the weapon delivers the blast back onto the titan? either way, i think residual energy would be a simple fix to fleets bringing a dozen titans to a fight."
"if we imagine the local as to the range at wich our own ship-radio can hear, that system simply hear the space void. if noone speak on-air, you don't hear anything but space-noise. if you speak your voice thorugh the system, your words appear, but not the list of people, only the single phrase you spoke, not the list. it is stupid.so, i agree to eliminate local-intel.maybe the stargates themselves spread across the system the +1/-1 access/exit ships not the type, nor the pilot, so you may know how many pilots been there mmm and the jump bridges? mmm."
"i agree with the issues raised about making missions more interesting by randomizing the outcomes. to go along, i would like to see two changes made to how belt rats work and how npc loot drops, both from rats and missions, are determined.1 belt rats. as it stands now, if you are in gallente space for example, you will only see serpentis rats. if you know the security status of the system, you can predict down to the ship name what sort of ship you will see. the rare exception is faction ships, and even those are predictable. why is this? do sansha or gurista pirates *never* travel to essence? my proposal is to add a random element to the encounter tables to allow a chance for different types of rats to show up. also, make it possible for more variety of ship type as well, like bc rats in a .5 system.the value would be more variety and less predictability, chances to get different types of loot and salvage, and motivation for players to work together to take down tougher opponents with smaller ships.2 randomize the loot drops. all npc loot drops can also be predicted by type and ship strength. one of the fun aspects of any game that includes looting is the surprise in what you are going to get. in eve, you might get a hgher meta level item, or the extremely rare faction or officer drops, but 99% of the time loot is dull and predictable. so much so that many players don't bother. same with salvage. my proposal is to expand the loot tables to include items like implants, usable boosters, bpc's, rigs, and other items outside the list of modules. the value would be added excitement to the pve game, and more motivation to loot and salvage. not to mention more pirating possibilities. ;ar"
"maybe there's an option i haven't found yet, but it'd be great if mails from insurance and/or cloning services could be disabled. or at very least, if something could be put into place to make sure that we don't get insurance expiration mails for ships we've sold or otherwise lost possession of...it's obviously not a very important issue... just a minor annoyance from time to time."
"insurance expiry mails for ships you don't own sounds like a bug - bug report it. as for the other, you should be able to add npcs to the blocked list, just like players."
"i'll make this short and sweet.currently, it's possible to use alts on the same account to support an issue. while ccp and possibly the csms are capable of seeing how many accounts are behind a specific number of supporting votes, this can still be exploited to inflate the number of supporting votes which harms the overall legitimacy of the system and can distort the perspective of players wishing to weigh in on an issue. this needs to be fixed as soon as possible.that is all."
"i'm supporting this topic with my main..."
"...and now with my alt."
"supporting this topic again with my main and only character."
"or maybe you're my other alt?! it's become self aware!"
"some where in the nano threads insanity over the last couple of days, in one of the threads here in the assembly hall. i believe lavista or maybe it was jade, said that ccp is able to look at the tallys on their end on a per account basis. i do think though for us the on washed masses it would be nice to see that same \"per account\" vote opposed to 3 votes per account mayhem we have right now."
"hello i too support this plan....no i am not the alt of the above poster....promisep.s. you only get to see the one alt, the others portrait is soo ugly small children would cry in fright"
"ok testing this. i thought you could only support with 1 char per account."
"and now with my alt on the same account.eidt: hmm, works indeed."
"agreed, it should be 1 vote 1 account, and transparent to the forum members as well as the folks around the back, to avoid inflated bandwagon effects."
"that must have been jade.but right now, i think this is a limitation of the forum system, which seem to work on a per-character basis.but yes, i fully agree. this is a major flaw. it needs to be worked out for the future of csm. if ccp wants to have a body like this, it will have to be done right. the current way, isn't."
"supportin' dis.at least my alts are fairly easy to actually find"
"i support this topic."
"supported again."
"has my full support, inflating votes with dummies is something akin to election fraud..."
"and again."
"i support this."
"me2."
"i support this issue."
"urm? divide all the results by 3?????"
"that sounds like an event trigger.cat_onwashed  this.extracthuman.eyes, new spoonspoon.rusty; also, supported.edit:fool. some people don't do this, so you can't. i'm one of the extremely small minority that doesn't even use alts on the same account, never mind other accounts."
"you mean people actually take the thumbs up icons seriously?i've so often seen people support an idea but forget to check the little box that i wouldn't even rely on them to get the overall pro/anti mood of a thread, let alone anything approaching a meaningful tally.although i suppose people will be more careful to /support in threads like the nano ones.edit because i forgot to support"
"the no-nerf vs pro nerf. no nerf is double + the pro nerf.i'm sure that there was padding on either side but however you cut it more people are voicing to stop the changes than to support them as it doesnt just effect nano ships....its a bad idea and you knows it foo.."
"ummmm, you realise that this thread hasn't got anything to do with the nano-nerf itself, right? it's to do with the proven flaw in the current system where multiple alts on the same account can voice support for any given issue thus padding the perceived support and increasing the amount of noise created in the thread, drowning out any reasonable suggestions for how a given idea could be better.this was proved as being possible with the first three posts on this thread with tarmanic supporting this with both himself and one of his alts on the same account as tarmanic."
"supported"
"this thread has nothing to do with any kind of nerfing. get out."
"thanks i wasn't quite sure what to say, my ******ometer temporarily suspended all neural functions."
"1.0"
"/signed"
"im tarminics 3rd alt, i am triping the dataforce by supporting this threadno serious"
"page two snypa"
"stangly enough thought your thread popped up as the nano whiners where loosing the voting war tho eh?and: .. make me"
"my thread popped up as a response to this thread: linkagecheck the timestamps on my first post and this thread's creation.besides, it's extremely likely that both sides are using this tactic. it doesn't make it any less dishonest."
"the fact that players assume that their voting will reverse the changes is misleading. the fact that this is in the assembly hall is misleading. if all this voting power was spent in testing and giving honest, only slightly-biased feedback to what the devs are creating on the test server, the anti-nerf and pro-nerf crowd might actually have some say in how balanced this change is.but the devs have already stated that it's not working as they intend it to work not as how we believe it should work or how we think it's fine, and their concept for the changes.i'm beating a dead horse, again, when i say that game development isn't a democracy. your not paying to have a product built to your, or even a majority of players, specifications. your paying to buy the product as ccp decides to release it. you've got no creative rights or control over said product.good marketing is completely different, but if you did win and cause a change, you'd sure as hell be p*ssed off when someone else used popular vote from a small minority of the playerbase that is active on the forusm to change something you didn't like. better off we'd be if we just left it to the guys who are trained and paid to design it, as they're the ones who takes the blame if it lives or dies.so, vote or not, opinion or not, the real flaw with this system is player arrogance and misunderstanding."
"definatly supporting this. all you have to do is look at the nano threads and half the chars you see voting against it are characters with no corps and bs names that mean nothing that are a couple weeks old. yea.....ok.....ccp better be able to tell who's on what account. if not, this is a serious problem and peoples vote doesn't mean $hit."
"and this whcih is about as honest about the whole thing as you can get!"
"i voted with my 14 characters..... sorry what was the topic again?metagaming: if you cant beat them 1 on many. outa meta game them whining. for when you cant win in game whine for changes and the only counter to a sucessful whine is lots more whining!"
"agreed. an 'align to\" for every single celestial object in space, not only the fleet version."
"agreed.maybe not all bosses would escape they too have clones!.but some missions that don't require to kill all, but to tackle someone, or exploring some systems or so.. :totally agreed on removing t1 loot and halving boring frigs."
"i agree.but we have to remember the loot problem. it really kill economy, miners and producers right now. on some other thread, some nice post ask to eliminate loot for scrapping, maybe leaving some named t1 mods, insignas and quest items, and a tiny up on bounty not much.maybe producing t1 mods will be worth again."
"i didn't go threw reading it all, at work at the moment, but i don't think you should remove the quality rating. instead make it that once you get to a certain security rating all agents for that empire are equal quality, makes something to work for and would still reduce lag spreading out missioners and and still keep the present system.edit - guess this idea was already proposed."
"i do missions to relax myself. i do pvp in nullsec to excite myself.i think it's bad to force to go mission runners to lowsec systems where they risk their ships.and it is bad to eliminate missions only because of lag. i can ask to eliminate pvp for the same reason, don't i?no, it would be bad to kill missions as it would be bad to kill pvp.so, aside the omnipresent lag new hardware will help, the mission hubs will lose lag only if mission runners will find new systems.i totally agree to clean the laggest systems.one suggestion is to let contact my agents from systems far away from the agent homesystem based on standing. a pilot could ask for mission in lowsec, simply calling that agent from a lowsec system. if my standing will be enough i can even ask my agents for mission in null sec, and maybe that mission would be more risky and hard.so there will be no need for quality, but only level and system security. no difference between 1.0 and 0.5 really no difference, but if i'm a militian factional warefare, mission in enemy systems would pay.callin' agents from away and nullfing the reward difference between 1.0 and 0.5, would kill mission hubs and let enough space for future improvements on the mission-game-system."
"we are supposed to be drone specialists, after all. i propose to reevaluate bandwitdh specs on all gallente boats. all gallente battleships should have 125mb drone bandwitdh for a start. for a drone-specialised race, to have battleships that can't even fit 5 heavy drones, just doesn't sit right."
"gallente can be specced for drones, blasters, and railguns, so no not every bs should be able to fit 5 heavies."
"gallente have a primary turret weapon like every other race, and some of their ships favor that weapon. the fact that their ships are split between drone and turret users is not uncommon. caldari face the same issue, only their weapon split of hybrids and missiles all take up the same high-slots.if anything, i'd consider yourself lucky that a large portion of your damage potential in a large portion of your ships do not take slots, do not require fittings, and don't use cap. asking for another boost is like spitting in the rest of our faces."
"and, this could probably be better posted in the gameplay discussion or features and ideas sections."
"kid, there is a drone nerf coming, as they are now too good to take out smaller ships, compared to 99% of turrets no n in turret."
"increase for all ships why should gal ships get that regardless if they are the drone race..... hell amarr ships only get bonus for cap basically means the lasers won't drain the cap that fast and the damage bonus only goes on a few select ships same as resist bonus and rof.... forgot the abaddon only gets resist and dps bonus apoc gets range and cap use i think i am not a big fan of the bandwidth thing myself but hey **** happens and then u adaptwhiner threads"
"following the same logic caldari can be specced for rails, blaster, guided missiles and unguided missiles, four specializations against 3. not less so for the whining comments."
"though i'm a professional drone *****, i can't support this.dominix 5% hybrid damage per level, 10% drone damage per level: 6 turrets, 5 heavy dronesmegathron 7.5% tracking per level, 5% damage per level: 7 turrets, 5 heavy droneshyperion 5% damage per level, 7.5% repair per level: 8 turrets, 4 heavy dronesdps no skills, t1 | all skills, t1 | all skills, t2:dominix: 224 | 679 | 897 tier one, two damage bonusesmegathron: 245 | 613 | 809 tier 2, one damage and one tracking bonushyperion: 247 | 615 | 816 tier 3, one damage and one repair bonusthings look pretty good to me. the hyperion has an extra turret but loses a single drone. it's real damage will be a bit lower than the mega's due to tracking but the megathron has 2 offensive bonuses while the hyperion has only one offensive bonus, so that seems pretty balanced to me. there's no good balance reason why the hyperion should have another drone."
"nice troll."
"i'm a massive gallente specialist, and even i think this idea is stupid. being the drone race doesn't mean that the noob ship should come with fighters. and hyperbole aside, two gallente bses have 125 of bandwidth, and the hyperion is just fine without it."
"was inspired by yours. if you count blastrers and rails as different specializations, i can do the same for guided and unguided missiles."
"heheheh ... i guess you could count the combat and sentry drones as different types, no?but more accurate would be to say, hybrids and drones, and hybrids and missiles. the two don't equal out, though, because in the latter case, they both take up high slots."
"fine. caldari = hybrids and missiles. gallente = hybrids and drones. amarr = lasers and drones. minmatar = bastard child who uses everything mostly projectile and missiles. each race has bonuses focusing on 2 types. this is eve university 101. the gallente do not suffer from a specialization deficiency."
"so really drones should be nerfed aaahhh lock thread."
"maybe not all but some gallente ships really lost out when drone bandwidth was introduced. in particular the ishkur went from a nice ninja ratting ship to a useless piece of crap."
"then maybe the ishkur deserves some lovin, but clearly not all of them - only the droneboats that are shown to be underpowered like your example."
"gief the eos back the ability to hold/deploy 5 heavies nowwwwwwwwwwww."
"the eos and myrmidon should have lost turret slots, not drone bandwidth. and yeah, the ishkur got hit, although not really as hard as those two."
"the heart of the matter is that you want a dps increase on all gallente battleships.your arbitrary definition of drone affinity as being able to fit 5 of the biggest drones is interesting as well. compare caldari and gallente and its obvious which race has more emphasis on drones, beyond that gallente isn't entitled to anything."
"because some original person took the time and effort to specialize a character, and the other person is paying money or isk for that effort. there is a difference. in your first example two characters are involved and neither change, they just switch ownership. the second involves the actual alteration of a character that should remain static. i don't think players should have the freedom to move around their skill points at will like musical chairs. you can alter your own character by training something else, i think that's enough freedom as every character can do anything. there's plenty of logic in denying this op."
"i can't really support this as much as there's a part of me that would like to.eve does not have \"path\" system that you're locked into where choosing certain skills makes other skills difficult to learn or impossible to learn, nor does it have some \"softcap\" to total sps where reaching a certain sum total of sps means that you gain sps at a slower rate afterwards. for instance, just because i have 1,500,000 sp in missiles does not mean that if i try and buy gunnery skills later on they now cost twice as much sp to level. if eve's skill system worked that way, i'd support your post.it doesn't, though.while i don't support the op's request, this isn't a good example. in wow, you're \"locked\" into a certain path depending on your choices. in eve you are not - there is no mechanic for diminishing returns in other skills because you chose certain skills.i'm going to guess you don't play other mmos then.i've played most major mmo to have come out and quite a few not-so-major ones like this one. of those i played, all of them had major changes that totally change some \"class's\" aspect. while you might not know people who played everquest if you do, ask them how about necromancers in early eq and what happened to them later, try asking someone who plays wow how paladins \"used to be\" or how mages used to get an invisiblity and an unlock spell making rogues pointless.people are better off in eve than in those games because there's no classes and you're not \"locked\" into a certain skillset."
"its only a matter of time tho.seriously, i gotta say i cant approve of this idea, you make your choices and thats the end of it.just for balance ill point out that i have skirmish mindlinks, recons 5 inties 5 hac 5all stuff thats getting massively changed. do i want agility bonuses instead of speed bonuses? do i *******s, i trained the skills for the speed increase, cos i for one hate snailblobtankwars and i fly with some incredibly talented inty pilots.as far as im concerned there should never be any requirement for this kind of respec option, as the changes proposed should never be considered, minor tweaks for balance, as required.unfortunately thats not the case, sadly it seems to me the loudest portion of the playerbase are the ones who have the least clue about the impact of thier screaming.educate those players, teach them that the game can still evolve with only minor adjustments and that whatever fotm is currently killing them can be easily balanced if it is unbalanced that is with only minor changes. that is going to be a far more valuable and long lasting option than respecing skills"
"i still want to be able to delete skills."
"now i don't know if this happens to everyone, but it happens to me a lot, and it's starting to get somewhat irritating. most of the time when i'm getting a storyline mission, i'm looking forward to it, till i read the mission details and discover that the mission is about transporting 7500 m3 big cargo or minebuy 10k m3 ores for the faction for war preparation so the faction won't soil itself and die of the humiliation. now those missions aren't that irritating, autopilot something somewhere and get paid for it is easy money, aslong as you got the ship for it. most of the time i'm doing command/security/anything-that-involves-killing-other-ship missions, so me having a ship that got a four didgit m3 cargohold number really isn't something i give much attention to. what i do give a little attention to however, is storyline command/security/anything-that-involves-killing-other-ship missions, but it doesn't seem to me that i get most of those. instead i get a boring mission which i need to jump 6 times back and forth 15 times cause the cargohold of my salvaging ship only got enough space for one engine.if this is a somehow irritating phenomena that mission runners experience, then i believe that storyline missions could be organized in the way that mining missionsers get mining related storyline missions, combat missionsers get combat related storyline missions and so on.anyways, that's just me.thanks for your attention.-ady"
"just so ya know. the missions you get are determined by the department that the agent works with. so if you want lots of fighting missions work for a command or security agent and now a manufacturing or research agent. don't know for sure if the militia agents are broken down this way but i bet they are."
"the cynical perspective of factional warfare prior to its release was that it would be some sort of \"pvp lite.\" i've been bopping around the gallente militia for a few days, and i don't think this is true. what it is is \"alliance lite;\" the militia is functionally similar to an alliance, but without leadership or organization.there are problems, though, with an alliance without a head. internal issues arise: complaints of loot-stealing, bickering between corporations culminating in intra-militia wardecs, and arguments over militia-wide strategy and tactics. there's no authority to settle internal disputes, so the disputes continue. and there's no authority, either, to level punitive measures against players or corporations who persist in causing problems for the militia. there's no guarantee beyond an implied agreement that we're even all fighting for the same <i>side.</i> there needs to be some way for the militia to deal with problem members and problem corporations, and in less extreme cases to function as the last word in intra-militia disputes. authority would also help on an organizational level. the ability to designate short term goals and provide some mandate for the activities of militia members would help on several fronts. it would give the militia, especially new players who aren't entirely sure of their direction or purpose, something to concentrate on. it would also allow the disparate elements of the militia the pve'ers who don't really want to get involved in pvp, and the pvp'ers who don't want to do plexes to cooperate on a more meaningful level. if the goal this week is to decontest fliet, then the folks wondering what they should be doing know that they should be heading to fliet and doing the complexes there. and the folks doing pvp fleets know that the other side will be drawn to that system like flies to honey, and will know where to concentrate their efforts.organization will also help another problem, which is the lack of fc's. the militia channel is always full of people x'ing up for whatever group will have them, but fleet commanders willing to take a group under their wing are significantly less common. at most, there tends to be one large blob'ly fleet in the warzone, and then usually only when an opposing fleet has already been spotted. having goals handed down from on-high will give people a better idea of what they need to do, which will hopefully result in more people being willing to step up to the plate and take command of a fleet.so having a system of leadership in the militia would help keep deal with intra-militia squabbling, and help give players purpose."
"here's how i propose to do it: - individuals are chosen to fill specific roles in the militia by a vote. corporations each get a vote, and the militia corporation's members all vote individually to determine the militia corporation's vote. alternately, a corporation is chosen in a similar manner, and their ceo becomes something akin to an alliance executor.- the militia leader has the power to kick corporations from the militia for a period of time, or individuals from the militia corporation. he doesn't have to approve applications; the militia will remain open to anyone who wants to join. booting a member or corp from the militia will require a vote from existing militia corporations. the boot will not be permanent - possibly, it could simply entail dropping the corporation/player's standings, which would necessitate regaining standings to rejoin the militia. - if rewards for fw are implemented, the militia leader may be able to put players or corporations on a probationary status, and dock them a percentage of their rewards.- the militia leader has the power to designate a system or systems as conquest goals. this could be handled in a few different ways: either single systems, or up to three adjacent systems, or up to three nonadjacent systems, or single constellations. victory points in these systems are gained at a higher rate than in other systems, for both sides. standing increases for vp gain and kills are also higher in these systems than in others. this doesn't function as a tremendous incentive without faction pvp rewards, but even without them it gives the militia some focus. even simply giving lps to players who score kills in the goaled systems might work. - the systems designated by the opponent's militia leader as conquest goals become defensive goals, with similar mechanisms play. since all of the systems have multiple capture points, this would help decrease blobbing somewhat; simultaneous strikes on multiple points mean that the blob cannot be everywhere at once. at present, blobbery hasn't been cut down upon because the points are spread across dozens of systems, and the prize the fleet's chase is the enemy fleet. bringing the conflict down to a couple systems at a time might help this, and bring fw specific mechanics further into play.at present, the main problem facing factional warfare is the lack of coherence within militias. corporations may be organized but the militias as a whole aren't. there's a significant power vacancy from the fleet commander level upwards, and the militia is really feeling that where it hurts. simply sticking someone at the top and giving him basic levels of authority would help this tremendously, and might help make factional warfare the interesting variant of pvp it was meant to be."
"edit: op fixed this"
"should solve that problem. and having someone at the helm to make the decision and then having people need to ratify it will work better, i think, than a straight democracy. also, it wouldn't be too hard to put in safeguards to prevent bootery en-masse.[edit: hah, nevermind, then. but the democratic vs. ratification thing is important enough that i'm leaving my post here.]"
"/signed to everything he said.fw has no internal controls over its militia members, other than normal corporation management features. this is not enough.there exists a need to handle war-decs, standings across all of the faction, and fleet management. recognizing fc's is one thing, but having fleet features where there are designated fleets in place and people can simply sign on without x'ng all of the time, is a welcome idea whose time has come.extend control in the areas that need it, and release control for the sore points. ccp needs to get in touch with all of the visibly prominent corporations that are trying to organize things across all of these fronts.ccp, or any member of the csm, please take heed. the playerbase as a whole may not know how to articulate into words what is required, or even be 100% consciously aware of the issues at stake, but there are a large number of us that do. please talk to us."
"op suggestions:all non corporate militia members, 1 collective vote, each corporation independently by the number of players, even 1 1 votealliance like politics games to be added to militia play, with giving some people the power to ban others from the militia and it will abused as a tool against specific corporationsdictator like militia ceo with the power to set goalsto all the above:nothe militia is not a 0.0 alliance and should not be ruled as one. quoting some little pearl open to exploitation:"
"this can be abused in so many ways, just one example would be for an alliance to seed the militia of thier choice with a bunch of alts and members, then vote one of thier own into control leaving themselves with thier own little personal militia.the other problem is how do you make sure the vote is fair.-one vote per person, the largest corp in the militia wins.-one vote per corp, the largest corp in the militia still wins, all they need to do is have each member start thier own little temporary corp, join the militia and vote."
"there are simple safeguards that can be put in place to keep people from flooding the militia with alt corp/players. for instance, we've got a ranking system . . . why not weigh votes by rank? you can flood the militia with a bunch of rank 0 alts, but they won't be able to swing an election. the need to ratify decrees means that this is not an 0.0 \"dictatorship.\" it's a cooperative effort. but what the effort lacks now is <i>initiative,</i> and that's what putting someone at the helm gives us. it gives us people actively making decisions, that the rest of us can \"yay\" or \"nay\" to. instead of us all sort of sitting around in a mob grumbling about how someone should be doing something. second point: larger corporations have more power? that's how a democracy works. the danger of having the people make the decisions is that there's a constant danger of more people who aren't you making decisions you don't want. either we can have a democracy, which apparently we don't want, or we can have a dictatorship, which we don't want either, or we can have anarchy, which we've got and is frustrating. we can put safeguards in place to prevent corp-spawning, to prevent alt-spamming, and to prevent an 0.0 alliance moving in wholesale and shutting the place down. if you have better ideas on how to do this, feel free to speak up. but folks, this is exactly the problem we've got with the militia now. no one's in charge, and a significant minority can't wrap their minds around the idea of being \"constructive.\" the militia needs leadership, and if you don't like my proposal i would <i>really, really</i> like suggestions about how militia leadership could be better implemented. because we need something. oh, and the other solution is to ask to have ccp put someone in charge. but . . . folks, this is eve. the whole game is arguably about players governing themselves - is fw really such a joke that we need to carebear up the leadership, too?"
"i would like to see a race specific bonus implemented. that way any minmatar born clone flying a minmatar ship will have specific racial bonuses.example.minmatar racial bonus can be 10% bonus to ship speed.caldari racial bonus can be 10% missile bonus of some description.gallente racial bonus put towards drones.amarr racial bonus to capacitor.these bonuses can be worked out amongst the ccp thinktanks.cheers. chelly."
"first, i think this is more for 'features and discussions' than the assembly hall.secondly, one of the prime factors about choosing a 'race' is that it gives you no bonuses. we're all equal, it's the skills we train and the ships we decide to fly.does that mean the idea is bad? no. but theres something counterproductive about being a minmatar, for example, and not using your speed bonus to stack with your ships speed bonus. specialization beats out generalization any day.so i support moving this idea to it's proper forum, and i don't support adding bonuses to races. unless you give amarr a 10% bonus to armor resists. then i fully support it ;?j"
"we already have racial specific bonuses.they are found at character creation, in the form of what starting skills and attribute balance you have at intial character creation.so, no i dont support your idea."
"if you give bonuses to people based on their character race you will **** off a large portion of the player base because the race their character is doesn't have the bonus they want. the older the character, the more ****ed they are.add in the bonuses only working if your flying your races ships, and you **** of everyone who wants to fly ships of multiple races.this is the kind of change i would leave the game over because it forces me to chose between throwing away a character i've had for a while, putting up with the fact that i will never be able to pilot a gallente ship as well as the players who got lucky, or leaving eve."
"you should still be able to get the skill and ship specific bonuses if you choose to fly another races ship. what i'm getting at is this:2 ravens shape up for a 1 v 1.pilot 1 is amarr.pilot 2 is caldari.i think pilot 2 should have just the smallest advantage to his raven as he is caldari.there are plenty of nerfs that ''****'' pilots off.in the end, it's to make life a little more interesting, not easier as easier is often boring."
"the op is right, in a manner of speaking. if you look through the data dumps, you'll see race-specific bonuses, not far off what the op suggests.however, eve is all about redemption. you have to take yourself very far down one path until you're not able to come back faction standings. applying a limit to characters at their birth goes way against this.saying that, i would like to see more racial difference. whether that be race-specific ships, or militia-only reward ships for high-ranking officers which are returned if they leave the militia, then it's all good."
"what a terrible idea"
"this is just a bad idea, sadly. it sounds good on paper, but really, the skills you get starting out should cover this, but beyond that, everyone should be equal.oh, it's great if you happen to play amarr with an amarran character. but what happens in the future when the amarr are nerfed? or you start out playing caldari because they sound like awesome miltarists then you find out about the truth about missiles and pvp.right now, one of the big \"insurance policies\" in eve is that even if some favorite tactic / race's ships / skills are nerfed, you can always just learn new skills without being inherently disadvantaged compared to someone else who was just \"born better\" who will stay better forever."
"no. eve prides itself on letting everyone do everything equally well as long as they put the same amount of time into it. i was completely against char-gen-only skills, and i'm most definitely against this."
"i prefer the existing system. anyone can do anything, given enough time."
"it is a terrible idea. what makes eve great is it's flexibility. you are, for all intents and purposes, a \"tabula rasa,\" as john locke put it. you fill it with whatever you want. complete freedom.what's your suggesting creates classes. classes = bad"
"it was stealth nerfed during the expansion release, and i bug reported it shortly after.no response yet on the bug report, nor a simple database hotfix. so, they've seen how effective logi's are with remote energy x-fer and made it impossible for anyone other than bpo holders to produce t2 versions?the bug report."
"\" you are not authorized to view this bug report \""
"what seems to be the problem here, sir?"
"i agree that some of the nerfs may be a little overboard. i don't fly nanoships. but i've said it before, i'll say it again: nerfing the crap out of something is the laziest way to fix a perceived problem.tbh your ideas, along with some buffs to either tracking on some ships or missile explosion velocity and missile velocity on others or both would serve the playerbase much better to combat ships that are currently invulnerable due to their high speeds."
"if your intent on seeing any balance to the nerf, get on sisi and test it to death. report your findings, don't go all opinionated, and believe it or not, devs will listen.prove to them that your taking too much damage from missiles. prove to them that your getting locked down too hard. but whether your arguing for or against the nerf, unless your actually contributing to make the changes the devs have already decided to make balanced, all your doing is blowing smoke.don't try veto's and votes like you think this is some kind of high-school popularity contest. test, report, and test again. if you don't do your part to help bring balance, you've got no right to yell about ccp not listening."
"ok, veto it, keep your 7k/s ishtar.but give us the guns to hit you in the face with when your doing max speed."
"these changes are dispicable, repugnant, and lack any intellectual direction. they are counter to small game combat, display a complete lack of understanding by the devs about pvp and are a complete capitualation to the whining drake, caracal, raven crowd. the worst things every forced down the throats of players and could possibly result in the first serious decrease in the viability of eve as an entertainment product"
"signed."
"just some place to discuss progression of faction wars..."
"make alliances cheaper to start/maintain. as things are many corps cannot get access to 0.0 space as existing alliances will not recruit/ allow them access. my corp has been trying to get into a 0.0 alliance, but no one will have us. we cannot hope to take on an alliance to gain space, so what do we do to get into 0.0? obviously we do not want to join another corp, we have the corp we want already. ccp wants people to expand into 0.0, yet makes it almost impossible."
"yes, they are boring. maybe it's possible to reimburse them fairly. however:no, you are not forced to train them.no, they are not so tedious if you do a little math with marginal returns see evemon if you can't do the simple economic analysis yourselfyes you can replace the attributes, but what about reallocating the sp and time spent?i think it's enough that the tier-2 learning skills can be started upon completion of the teir-1 at level iv. that's very very lenient to begin with. learning skills provide a way to customize your character and allow him/her to grow intellectually. learning skills are a healthy introduction to the patience required in the unique skill system of eve."
"even ccp refered to them as a boring grind."
"i already accounted for that in my post.they don't customize your character at all, because basically everyone trains them because they are universally necessary. yet again it doesn't add anything to the game except force newbies to waste time before training anything usefulwouldn't a better introduction just be letting people see the skill system for themselves, rather than a wow-esque \"grind for a ****load of time before you can do anything useful\"?"
"it does not force new players to do anything. most people who don't understand the system do all their skills to iv:iii because they are told to. it is possible to get you basic skills without bringing your learning up to ridiculous levels.instead of:learning ilearning iilearning iiibeginner skillsadvanced skillstry this:learning skills ibeginner ilearning iibeginner iiadvanced ilearning iiibeginner iiiadvanced iietc.it isn't a grind when done properly and efficiently. if eve does one thing well it teaches players the basics of diminishing marginal returns. having high learning skills is only worthwhile when training those iv/v skills. players benefit by learning to prioritize.again, you don't have to grind, you can plan it properly so it's not such a terrible obstacle. if a player chooses all of his attributes at the beginning, either one of two things would happen.1 ccp would make sure all of the bloodlines are balanced so each has an equal opportunity to specialize in anything as they do now. no fun in picking a bloodline.2 ccp would keep the bloodlines separate. newbie who doesn't understand the game picks the bloodline with all the charisma and realizes since the attributes are at a high level and he can't add any to perception and intelligence, he trains slowly for everything important and quits.i had a longer post with more math for this second part let me know if you want to see it."
"i beg to differ a bit, they do \"customize\" your character, especially for those who are dedicatedinsane enoungh to train up 5,376,000sp in learning skills. customized how you may ask, customized in the fact that i am able to out skill those fellow eve pilots who started around the same time as me. yes it is a long time to pay off learning everything to lvl5 in learning, even the advanced ones, but i am going to be in this game long enough for it to pay off.eve is not about instant gratification, eve is about dedication and long term commitment to goals. maybe that is why when i was still a nubbin, of my first 5m sp, 3.5m sp of it was in learning. for some people that may be too slow to get \"real\" skills, but i used that time to actually learn about the game, reading faqs, the forums, guides, and joining a corp where i got to learn a bit about all aspects of eve.for the record you dont need to have much sp to be effective, you just need to be cunning. i only once \"pirated\" and it was when i was a week old and in a punisher in low sec, i had less than 500k sp at that time, but i still got me 10m for ransom.also for the record, yes i really am sick and have the aforementioned 5,376,000sp in learning skills.tl;dr versioneve is not the instant gratification you seek, learning skills are worth it, if you have the paitence.do not support"
"i think learning is fine...you either do them or you dont, the obligation to do them is all in your head.what i do want to see is the adv learning skill itself."
"learning skills are a great aspect to the game. learning skills actively encourage newer players to be responsible with their skill training and show how rewarding time management can be."
"null^this"
"go here for the previous thread. every aspect of it gets debated to death."
"the entire vote is bullsh*t, and i'm not saying that because i'm in support of the nerf or against. i could care less, because my perception of 'balance' is completely different.but when the hell was it the players, with no programing experience and no real concept of how the game worked behind the game screen that they see, who decided what changes the developers made?i mean, come the f*ck on, they were taking votes before the test server was up. and testing is going on, and changes are already coming down taking the testing into account.but i'm so amazed at how arrogant players can be. your not paying to have this game built to your specifications, you know. your paying to play the game as the developers choose to deliver it. going off on a vote or crying for nerf/anti nerf threads on the forums is, hopefully, completely ignored by the playerbase.because guess who will never take accountability if a poor decision is made off their own complaints? the players.if the servers crashed and could not be repaired because players were pushing the game engine to limits it couldn't handle with a particular mixture of modules, boosters, rigs, implants and skills, it damn sure wouldn't be those who used those tactics who would raise their hand and say 'my fault.'and the same goes the other way. if thousands of players were lost because of a massive nerf of an entire playstyle, it's not going to be the whiners who claim the blame.it all goes onto the developers shoulders. let them design their game, throw an idea out every now and then, but until you are paid to make the code yourself, don't assume that you should have any say. your power is simple and easy to use: pay the monthly fee, or don't.if you pay, you like what ccp does. if you leave, you don't.easy. now can we all get over this crap?"
"yay, anubis xian's sales alt on same account."
"anubis xian's ceo alt on same account."
"yeah, that seems broken to me."
"hehehe .. read the posts. i've posted with all my accounts, several trial accounts, and in both sides with various alts on each of these accounts.if that doesn't invalidate those bs 'up in arms' comments, i've lost respect for the ccp dev team."
"one account, one votean answer was given in there by inanna zumi that the csm/ccp could see the number of individual accounts supporting a given issue, however this doesn't help when people are blitzing a given issue with all of their alts in this case the nano-nerf both for and against it and claiming that support as an overwhelming mandate for change given that the general eve population cannot see the account support just the number of thumbs."
"don't want this to drop off the front page for too long. players might forget that they have no say in key development decisions other than their right to pay for the game as it is delivered, or not.and of course we all know that that would be a horrible world full of forum politics, whines and counter-whines, and annoying threads like the very one your reading. basically, forum hell."
"yet before salvage it wasn't their income since salvage is a relatively recent addition. i wonder if the changed probing system came out at the same time as salvage?this would mean that the ability to salvage other peoples missions would have been started at the same time as salvage."
"personally, i don't really care if they take the learning skills out or leave them in. though taking them out would cause some major headaches and what not. what i would like to see though, is the time it takes to train from 4 to 5 reduced. 30+ days to train a skill is just plain silly. knock 25-50% off that training time and, imo, things would go much smoother. there would be a lot of gripes and whinging from older players, but whatever happens, someone is gunna complain."
"neither evelyn beatrice hall nor voltaire who she was describing when she said that were american. you're missing the point. nobody is asking for \"special treatment\". it's just that it's neither appropriate nor fair to make assumptions or assertions about someone based on some unrelated category they happen to fit into. if i call you stupid because of something you did, that's one thing although still rather rude, but if i call you stupid because of where you were born and thereby call every single other person who was born there stupid by implication that's beyond the pale.we're a private community here. there's absolutely nothing wrong with expecting certain minimum standards of behavior in the community. if you really can't stop yourself from being openly and aggressively racist, homophobic, misogynistic or whatever nobody is \"stopping you\", we're just saying don't do it here.if it makes you feel better i'll fight to the death for your right to start your own forum and say what you like there."
"it's ok to be bigoted in game right, like my caldari character is a racist against minmatar scum?"
"sure."
"i'm a newbie, i started playing this game last september or was it october? anyway, i played the game for about a month and quickly got bored of it. i thought \"eh, all this skill training crap is too boring.\" that's saying something, i'm normally patient. so, about ten months later, i had a conversation with a guest customer, i work at target who plays eve. the advice he gave me, was to slow down on the learning skills, and train in stuff that you think would be fun. i'm glad i talked to him, because i'm having more fun with eve now than i had months ago. so just to reinforce what a lot of people are saying:don't take away skills, just educate newbies on doing what's fun rather than shoving learning skills down their throats. when they are necessary, they can always be returned to later."
"35 pages of do not want there.you have no idea what you are talking about. just stop typing."
"some thoughts...first, to ankh on the \"slap on the wrist\" players found the issues you brought to ccp to be important, some had been asked for or about for a long time with no feedback... with the csm we get feedback... ccp wanted big things and that is what they got, they just did not have the same idea of what was a big thing.lavista,i am in agreement with you on ship balancing, it seems to me that all you will see here is opinions on those ships and their value... having the csm spending time on debating if this ship or that needs a reassessment is a down right waste... all ship balancing needs to start out with a look at the database by ccp to see what warships those ships that have use in combat are used or not, which are primaried popped first would be a good statistic, which are ignored... and which are left back in a hanger... nothing to do with the csm here...one of the above posts said a reply only forum is a good idea, dev asks the question \"why are crows left in the hanger when other interceptors are out fighting?\" i picked a crow because i can spell it, not because it's bad where a ship the database says is not used as it should be... or a whole class of ships are left out of the fights... filter delete all the troll posts and go from there... nothing for the csm except perhaps for the nebulous \"there have been multiple posts aimed at balance issues, please let us know what you are doing about it\"ccp wants the csm to look at \"big\" issues, but like so many things, \"big\" is a matter of perspective... battleships look big if you are in a frigate, but very small if you are in a titan."
"perhaps remand ship balancing issues to other forum sections, and let it stand in queue?"
"this is something i've been griping about for quite some time. right now, i use a destroyer to salvage missions. works great. until it gets full. then i have to dock or pop a can and come back for it in a hauler, wasting a lot of time. an industrial or barge of some sort would be nice. here's my concept - that's my concept."
"/signed"
"please please please make these kinds of changes to pos's! i was so disappointed when i saw my first pos. pardon my bluntness, but the way they are implemented now is just utter and complete crap."
"can't believe this isn't getting more attention./signed....again"
"signedalthough i believe the idea is still raw and needs a lot of refining, i think this is a great direction."
"i think that increasing the bonus that rsd ships give out should be increased to 7.5% instead of 5%, making them more useful."
"/signed"
"yes ecm ships got the boost now pls do the rest"
"/signedgiving damps one of their effects back up to prenerf status would be really nice."
"i don't use two monitors now, but if it meant being able to see the game while i market-browse, i certainly would. :"
"yes yes yes and i think this whould be a new 1st in an mmo if not out of all games so it gets my veto."
"love it support"
"just rewrite the ui so we can drag windows like chats, fleet, market, etc outside eve's main window. something like tool and palette windows in photoshop. 1920 or 1680 resolution would be large enough for eve if one could get all those secondary windows outta the way and keep only the overview and ship hud in the main window."
"yes please."
"signed"
"eve absolutely needs native multi-monitor support unless it would cause server lag!yes, you can already stretch eve over monitors with hardware. but, to clarify it's a function of your video card and it's video driver not the eve client - if we could unhinge parts of the ui, size the screen to what we want and put ui read overview, market window, etc. items where we want while changing the center point - eve would be much more awesome than it already is but fix lag in massive fleet battles first!"
"i was just talking to one of the goon fc's about cap training, and when i said i was planning on training minmatar caps, he laughed. i loved my scimitar, and remote repping in hostile situations is fun for me, so i figured the nid wouldn't be too bad. however, my first time trying to make a nag fit in eft my jaw dropped. being able to fit the 4 weapons, siege mod, and one boosterr or repper with little cpu left over is pretty pathetic, especially given the fact that their damage output is so low, nag pilots would be forced to shield tank so they can fit damage mods to increase their damage. the fix i thought to myself was exactly what yorda suggested, minus the 3/3 turret/missile idea i'm all-for 3 turrets and no missiles, however. changing the nag and the nid to shield tankers would balance the shield/armor tanker capitals. hopefully this issue will be addressed before i have to train for dreads"
"these slot arrangement needs to be more specialised"
"i don't think that black ops bs will ever eclipse capitals ever in any category, and that right now they are just big expensive toys that need a big boost. the sin's bonus isn't useful, panthers is kinda funny and gimmicky, while the redeemer and widow remain most useful in my opinion. giving the panther a range bonus, and the sin a rep amount bonus would make those ships more useful, but those are just a few quick ideas i came up with on the spot. the most glaring weakness as i see it is that the fuel bay is too small, as discussed, ships that emerge from being bridged are not cloaked recons, stealth bombers, covops are all pretty fragile, and that ships that need to launch a covert cyno need cyno theory 5 which isn't that big of a deal, but it is a pain to train.edit: upon reading waxau's post, i like his idea of giving the ships an ew bonus but not as strong as the recon equivalent, maybe 2/3, and giving them a covops cloak capacity. they shouldn't replace recons, but they should also fit along their scheme."
"against in it's current form.it's too extreme, too cataclysmic. too soe like.yes that is a grave insult to ccp, to compare a move of theirs to soei'd rather see a nerf that affects the high end cruisers going freaking 10k+ but leave reasonable fits alone say 3-5k. these changes are going to make reasonable setups cost billions because it seems to be balanced based on people fitting crazy stuff. i also disagree vehemently with the webifier nerf, wtf? nerf the only thing that currently can be used to break nanos?the mwd change is just ******ed. a t2 mwd should be faster than a t1.. ditto faction and officer ones...also, i disagree with giving warp scrams the ability to also shut off mwd's. that makes one module way too powerful. if you want to add that ability to a scram/disruptor module it should be via script so that you have to load either warp scram or mwd scram script.webs also should be scripted one for strength, another for longer range at the expense of strength..."
"having the invitation to a marathon race i started training, being nearly ready someone told me: 'hey dude, they shortened the distance... it's just 100m now!' i thought - 'hell s..t i need to change my training and get some spikes!'then - when the races finally started - the referee came: 'hello sportsmen.. the organizers of these fine games got the audiences opinion - they better like to see werestling' ...hello? ccp? adjusting..., balancing, fine tuning... ok - but turning the whole thing upside down in between?i vote no the planned 'changes'."
"just out of interest, is this merely another example of your usual trolling, or indeed your honest opinion?"
"/signed"
"that"
"against your taking it all away"
"we need a nerf but this is the wrong one. i am against!"
"the nerf of the pollcarbs/mwd reuse timer yeswarp scram killing mwds/web nerf/gang skill nerf no!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"[color=\"red\"][size\"200\"]hell no[/size][/color]"
"against"
"this will kill small gang pvp. there will be no way that a smaller force can engage a blob without getting annihilated. this will move from a game of skill into a game of who can make the biggest blob. small gang pvp is the most rewarding experience that this game has to offer, and this patch will destroy it.against!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"too many radical changes at once. you've had many months to address the issue in which you could have changed one module at a time and gradually worked to a solution."
"againstc'mon ccp, there has to be another to implement this. a very large and painful kick in the balls certainly isn't the way to go."
"against"
"just say no to the nano nerfif we want to go all nerf crazy, why not nerf things that real-life technology has already shown to be obsolete? we can use lasers to shoot down artillery and missiles, so why not let amarr take out incoming arty rounds and missiles? silly defender missiles. and we can use the super advanced technology of 'mirrors' to deflect incoming laser attacks, so why not let everyone fit mirrors over their hull to nullify laser damage? just saying :"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"about time it was done"
"against"
"against"
"all the guys in stain that voted should actualy hit the agree button when the post or they r not counted"
"don't make t2 ships useless =/"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"people, be sure to check the \"check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\" box when you are making your post, or your vote won't get properly tallied.thank you for your \"no\" vote on this critical issue.cheers.p.s. my vote was tallied a long time ago, so this post is just a reminder to all of you. peace."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"i just trained interceptors.against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against"
"signed"
"signed"
"against!!"
"against"
"against"
"500% from an mwd dam thats low."
"against this is bull****."
"can we have all the posts in this thread not linked to accounts which have logged in to sisi this week removed?tried it all again tonight, and it is still good.there were some extensive engagement tests, and the nano ships still managed to engage and disengage just fine, they just had more reason to disengage at times.the tests included a bubble-camp .. and it did not end up with a bunch of dead nano-ships, they pretty much all got out."
"against"
"against"
"no, it really is my honest opinion.the only thing i don't really like is the mwd cycle time thing because i don't realy see the point - but even that i can live with.seriously, get in on some of the sisi testing, the whole balance is much better than those in this thread would have you believe."
"against!!"
"against"
"i am completey against this patch in its current form. more development from ccp is essential.i support this thread 110%. time to earn ur free trip each year csm"
"against"
"found the right one :d"
"nerf is too big imo"
"against!"
"well i have tested it and some parts of the change are ok such as the changes to afs and i dont mind the changes to scrams either, but the changes to webs and speed are to much.with the web changes every gallente blaster boat has to fit mwd, scram and web, disruptor is no longer an option because you have to be able to deactivate your opponents mwd to be able to stay in range becuase webs dont slow things down enough anymore. the problem with that though is if you are going up against a blaster boat all you need is ab, scram and web and you can dictate range easily, because you cut there mwd and will have more speed than them with the ab and the web wont slow you down enough to keep you in blaster range that long.also with the changes missiles get a massive boost over turrets, one situation i noticed was with drones, drones when webbed at close range are still quick enough to get under your tracking, ive got virtualy max gunnery skills, and when flying an astarte, i was being attacked my 10 hammerheads t2, seen as they was the only things doing dmg to me i decided to try and kll them, but i found even when webbed they still manage to orbit me at close range and make it virtualy impossible to kill them, which isnt a problem for missile ships.also the changes seem to cater towards numbers > skill, alliances who can put out large numbers with high skilled pilots will like these changes, but smaller alliances who rely on hit and runs and picking off large blobs will suffer, missile spam on sisi is the i-win at the min, this was evident when i flew into the cruisers ffa and just watched cerbs ripping everything apart from whatever range they wanted.vagas seem pathetic on the test server, ive soloed 2 in my jag and astarte, perhaps part of it was down to bad piloting, but there has been other instances where all ship types are ripping vagas apart easily. curses are ok 1v1 or if you can dictate range, but they are awfuly slow now and cant tank at all and rapiers and huginns were getting ripped apart.overall i think the changes to speed is too much, you say they are broken becuase missiles and drones cant hit them, but if missiles can hit them doesnt that mean that missiles are the superior weapon choice becuase they can do everything? the web changes is way to harsh and realy is a big change in gameplay, maybe knock it down 10% but the current change is way to much. the scram change offers a new style of play and is another way to counter nanos, but becomes almost a must fit module combined with the other changes which is somthing ccp say they dont want. speed nerf and web nerfs need throwing out and maybe just reducing speed by alittle is all the is needed and the scram boosts along with the boosts to afs are the only things needed to be introduced."
"holy batman wall of text u got there."
"i don't like this plan:- it is not structured: eventhough the objective is really clear and well stated, the plan doesn't follow a structured path from the objective to solutions, but simply jumps from the objective to solutions.- it is not focused: it seems to me like a bunch of ideas thrown there for the only reason that they can imply some changes to speed. indeed the plan affects too many different things, nerfing even webifiers that is the natural counter of nanos.come on ccp, this is the result of a coffe-break brainstorming. i know you can do better than this.i'm against this specific plan of nerfing nanos, while i'm pro a smart way to avoid reaching too fast speed.st"
"aaaaaaagainst."
"i am against it"
"against"
"against"
"i'm against it."
"against"
"against."
"especially against gimping the blasterships!"
"against"
"i like this thread."
"who cares about nanos? don*t kill blasterboats!!"
"against the nano nerf in the current form."
"we tried blaster ships *a lot*, and if anything they are better than before, so i am not sure where you are comming from on that.i was shooting drones no problem either .. but if your set-up makes that hard, use your drones on their drones.i don't understand your claim that some ships can't tank at all either.there are some awesome tank fits for some of those ships, but people are trying to use them how they used to, and then moaning it doesn't work.missiles need adjusting a bit not much though, a small tweak on explosion velocity should do it, i agree. however, that does not make the changes bad in general."
"/vote against the nerf"
"vote against the nano nerf"
"againt"
"against"
"against!"
"against!"
"against"
"f*ck you ccp!making raven one of the lightest battleships and nerfing the minmatar bs further into uselessness is just f*cking stupid-check the new stats."
"support"
"against!"
"against"
"save solopvp!"
"against!"
"against"
"against!"
"against"
"against"
"against!"
"against!"
"against. save solo"
"poasting in the loser thread"
"gay"
"against"
"against most stupid nerf ever galaxy should evolve not degrade"
"against"
"i'm against the speed nerf"
"the changes on sisi simply are too aggressive... other simpler changes could achieve the more important corrections without causing so much collateral nerf."
"against."
"ahora creo que si :"
"i'm against the speed nerf"
"against."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"100% against."
"against"
"against"
"against"
"against! worst idea for a nerf ever"
"agaisnt again , forgot to support topic :s"
"against!"
"against changing nano in that way."
"i'm for ccp's willing to improve this awesome game, i'm willing to express my attitude to \"nerf\"\changes as \"against\"."
"being a newbie means your passion to test those pretty ships everybody already fly."
"against!"
"against"
"ha ha"
"1.0"
"against!"
"against"
"even if this nerf made game balance better which i don't think, the cost of customer dissatisfaction is too high.this nerf does more to change the style of eve pvp than to adjust balance in eve pvp. we don't want to play a different space game, we want to play this space game, that's why we are here.the speed balance can be adjusted without creating a new game experience for eve"
"against, it's better to boost missiles a bit"
"signed!"
"against"
"fully against."
"more against the web nerf."
"this nerf is something i'd expect from swg devs."
"there have been many much bigger changes than this in the past.eve survived, and thrived."
"against \"nano\" nerftoo broad of a \"fix\", its like going after a fly on the wall with a trebucet."
"against"
"would it help if i said \"please?\"please?!"
"yep - wheres the problem? why is this taking so long - it should have been implemented 5 years ago..."
"i can see where you got the idea that having t2 frigates for all the hulls would be nice, but i don't think remote repping is the way to go. t1 repping cruisers like the osprey, exequror, and augoror would outperform your variants with less training."
"supported"
"thumb up"
"/signedthis change has forced one of my three accounts into expiration. i cant play with currency only isk, and the isk cost increase has forced me to lose an account as i do not make enough extra isk to cover it."
"so ccp tells the csm and us, the players, that a price increase is not within the pervue of the csm.... i guess that is a little nicer than ccp saying \"stfu plebs! pay it and like it!\" but, the end result is the same isn't it?what i find extremely telling about this issue is ccp's unwillingness to talk about it or even allow discussion of the topic. to me, this translates to they are screwing us, they know they are screwing us, and they don't even feel obligated to admit it. talk about learning in no-uncertain terms where you stand with a company....oh, for the record, i support the op and a full disclosure of this subject by ccp. i also fully support and request a return of further options to the gtc. i.e. 30 day, 90 day, 120 day... etc. not that we are going to get any of these things. after over five years i am fully aware that ccp is not in the business of keeping their customers happy or of being responsible to them in any way.support."
"this topic deserves csm/dev attention."
"support"
"like a jockstrap... i support this."
"support"
"supported"
"support! small frig shuld not be able to take out huge battleship cause of there speed"
"support, we so need this :"
"support, nerf is needed"
"support"
"i have to admit that i havent had much pvp, so i can't really vote for or against it. but as i read a lot in the forums, watched the nano vids and speak to people who do pvp, it seems that the current state is imba, as there is little against these nanos except other nanos.i dunno if those changes are the right adjustments, but basically, i agree."
"about time...."
"get out"
"nanos are good"
"signed"
"i'll throw my support in here just out of spite."
"support, nanos have been overpowered for to long"
"bring back variety, boost misile speeds by 200%"
"aye!!!"
"support."
"hahaha. too funny."
"waiting for reasonable fights to make a comebacksupport"
"support"
"i support this thread."
"/voteyes"
"support"
"support"
"gay"
"awww the carebears are getting outvoted over 2 to 1 :*comforts sobbing nublet*"
"as a curse pilot i dont exactly welcome the nerf but it has been a long time coming... about time too"
"supporting to troll pandemic legion"
"1.0"
"maor nano-tears. this is a long time coming."
"fully support nerfing nanos"
"time for over-powered nano to end."
"ludicrous speed must go or better counters for nano***s."
"adios nanos...you abused the ability...now it's time to lose it."
"what's the phrase i've heard on the forums for years?oh yeah: \"adapt or die\"suck it up whiners. p.s. contract all your nano stuff to me."
"what? are you serious?"
"i'm sorry but you guys whiners to the nano whinned first...please. you guys should've learned to adapt or die...this is rediculous."
"carebears?like, for example, people who want the option to run away from a fight rather than get killed?like, for example, nano-ship users?"
"to hell with nanos!"
"full support for this... bring back the p in pvp."
"nerf it!"
"adapt or die lolololololololol"
"this is the issue that has come the closest to making me leave the game.war decs keep me from playing when i want to play and doing what i want to do, merely because i don't always have the time or resources to make sure i'd be safe in the location where i would be playing.currently the only solution for this is for me to eternally stay in a npc corp, which is just ******ed and frustrating.what i'd really like is for concord to only allow empire fighting if the war is mutual ... as it is now, the system is basically the same as if i went up to a police officer and said, \"i hate this person, so i am going to kill them,\" and merely because i told the police i wanted to kill someone, they respond, \"ok. no problem. go ahead.\" what the hell? :as for war decs being \"necessary\" to attack logistics chains, this is already not the case, as many many people have neutral hauling alts to get around this aspect of it. right now, the war dec system is just a way to force many people to pay for two accounts."
"supporting ;"
"an important issue that needs to be addressed asap"
"i support this ."
"this is a horrible idea that you people are only supporting because it's chribba. dreadnoughts are combat ships, and any attempt to make modules specifically to help make them mining ships is awful."
"ok, here it is."
"how about ...remove local in low sec. / null sec. but leave the same as it is now in high sec.best of both worlds ... pvp / pirate crowd is happy and the \"carebear crowd\" is unaffected."
"removing local flat out is a bad idea until they improve scanning.make it constellation."
"it is not so cut and dry. i think local is fine."
"yeah so do i m8, but figured i would find a happy middle of the road i can see how it really plays a part in low sec / null sec."
"i haz idea.local sucks. no local sucks. let's go 50/50.systems randomly lose local for a random period of time due to ion storm."
"/signed"
"an easy solution is just making ppl not appear in local chat until they vocalize themself with a chat message..else make it possible to disable local chat so that you cant see it and no one else can see you since you are'nt in that channel... simply not joining the local channel unless you want to.."
"i think your incorrect it is reported to your computer. displaying the information is just flipping a flag. completely stripping it out would require a much more concerted effort and probably a lot of programming time that could be better used on other aspects of the game.just like one alliance first hacked and got the standings in the local window and then we all got it because it was an unfair advantage, this is pretty much the same thing, that's why ccp has never removed it except for that hiccup once upon a time, they can't figure out how to do so economically. personally many of those calling for removal of local will not find the situation they want if it is removed. it would actually make the game harder for both the hunted and the hunter. the hunted would most likely retreat to empire, if they leave hi sec it will be only to do exploration sites and generally in groups becasue any other activity would just be to dangerous. they'll either look to stay in npc corps to avoid war declares or gravitate to that as the hunters become more bored in low and 0.0 sec and look to empire for targets.the hunters would become bored because of decreasing targets. in both cases ultimately folks would probably leave the game faster than the current average.it would probably lead to a slow decline of the game at best and at worst a very drastic decline of the game as what happened to swg"
"leaving local chat a recent chat, is the best e easy way imho. evolving che scan system will be needed of course.i don't think it will become boring. we speak about pvp in general, not only 1vs1. so you need a fleet and an organization, and so eliminating local intellychat would improve cooperations: some explore to hunt down, some gate camp. not simply wait at gates or at belts to kill people. camping is not pvp imho.even now people remain in game corp to not risk a war, so changing the local system would not alter their gameplay and a recent chat wouldn't hurt them.leave the possibility to drop probe and scan pos would render hunting people fun and easy. freighter fleet in null sec doesnt change, becouse you have to have a recon ship in fleet to scan gate and system ahead, so what's the difference? only that you will not have the exact number and name of people in system. today noone could stealth himself without a cloacking device from au away. this is a mess. maybe some powerful ships would emit so much em-noise to speak loud in local chat, but what for a ship shutten down whit all systems off? the tactical sceniarios would be really vast. :"
"i don't think this is a very good idea.you can want to change this so it doesn't show anyone in local, but don't go whining in c&p when someone sneaks up on you and pops you.doing this would also make it much more difficult to tell if there are pirates in the area..war targets...alliance and corp members...it would make being in system a terrifying experience for some and a rush for others.leave it be."
"eh, not so sure, while it is used as a tactical tool by people, the potential victims could easily use it the other way around, the pirates use local to see who is in system, the victimes can use it to see who is yellow/ flashy red"
"the bolded mostly, but this entire post in general also states while it's not the best idea, and since you are here saying how its \"being used as a tactical tool\" im assuming your a non pvper, and if this was implemented, you would go whine on c&p very quickly, because at least local gives you the opportunity to scout for potential dangers, like you most certainly do now, but you probably dont realize it, and if you dont, well you better start, i do it without thinking, and fate decides to punish me when i dont, apparently the caldari have been camping neutral systems concord, interbus in gallente high sec, most of the time, i check local, make a quick scna down, to make sure no reds, or war targets pop up or people i know, so i can start a conversation with them anyway, im gonig to my corp, and im in my little salvage boat destroyer, and i come out of local, and see what systems i will be passing through it was a 12 jump journey and i didnt check local, im in the star map, and boom one of the caldari militia is camping the gate, im in star map, and hear the locking sound and think, oh well, it's a noob who thinks he can kill me or someone did it by accident, then the ship starts shooting me and it is then i realize its a wt, and i didnt check local, and look what happened, he shot me to like 50% structure before i got to the gateso, start using local to your advantage instead of finding a way around it, which you are going to regret anyway"
"i disagree"
"support in theory. the exact roll out would need a lot of work though"
"making local a recent speakers channel would also mean it \"cannot be utilized as a tactical tool\"."
"i love this idea. this would have covop frigates in higher demand, and can let said covops and recons scout without being known. having it be in 'delayed' mode would still allow people to talk to each other, but their presence would still be hidden until they decide to reveal it."
"no local, so when my mate jumps into a system i.m in, someone whom i may not seen for a while,who is in a different corp or alliance, and we may even be at war with each other.means we can no longer pass the time of day with plesantries or smack. how against the ethos of eve. friendships begin and are formed through the local channel.no longer being able to exchange a few words with passing pilots is a massive down side to losing local. a second is when chasing enemy gangs it will be harder to track them down and follow because not every alliance has the numbers of goonswarm who could in therory place a covert ops pilot on every gate to moniter commings and goings.i believe local is a vital aspect of this game."
"if you read the thread, you'd see that people have suggested using constellation chat as auto-updating and you can chat in there."
"dont have constalation channel active, have enougth without it."
"that's as useful an argument as the other folks who say \"if you don't like local, then turn it off\".the point is... constellation chat spans too great a distance as far as people are concerned. they don't use it because they don't want to juggle all the conversations to look for anyone speaking directly to them.local covers that area, right there... so you can gab with whoever you like. and if you happen to notice someone threatening, then you can take appropriate action.what isn't factored in, is the ships onboard sensors. there's no particular reason why you should know the instant someone jumps into the area. i don't think that ships have little beacons that ring the doorbell and cry out \"honey, i'm home!\"but that's exactly what we're calling a problem, when a spy wants to sneak unseen into enemy territory to spy on the gathering fleet.\"i'll just creep up to this gate. hopefully no one is on the other end. either way, i'll cloak as soon as i get there, and sneak up to viewing range of their pos. just gotta make this jump first...\" ***honey!!! i'm home!!!***so taking local away from everyone who is abusing it as a tactical intel tool... really shouldn't affect you who are only looking to gab with friends. you can just as easily ask \"anyone around here know where to find a villard wheel?\" without seeing the faces of the people who will want to hurt you for asking.and as for knowing if friends or enemies are nearby... there's that little button for \"onboard scanner\" too."
"that may be, we dont know how ccp would implement it. the standings data was always available to anyone by doing a get info on the portrait in local. do you see any hacks that give a listing of all ships in system beyond the 13-au range of your ships scanner? is it because theyre not there?one of the points of this change is to make the game more complex. if that means harder for you, then thats a subjective assessment."
"interesting topic, nice to see these are being looked at! a few things i'll comment on...component manufacturingread this a few times before and does sound appealing. i like the idea of manufacturers being able to 'specialise' in a field of manufacturing if components were required such as components for afterburners would be completely different to, say, railguns. of course, adding new skills would be needed so long as there aren't a huge amount of them, or highly ranked. as for making higher meta items, would be nice being able to possibly create them with some extra bits but as to how either extra items or buying a bpo/bpc from lp store etc would be interesting to see.ship variationalso sounds good, depending on what variations we have. as a guess, maybe gallente ships could have things oriented to drones, blasters and speed perhaps or anything, even shield/missile variants. but, would it affect the actual amount of rig slots available? since we have 3 for t1 ships and 2 for t2 ships, might be a toss up between having a boost to your ships inherent bonuses example: a dominix variant could get +20% drone damage/hp per bs level with, or without penalty to something else or using normal rigs. of course, would there be a way of adding more rig slots? considering the rig fitting window has about 8 slots, maybe variants could have more rig slots as well? should be fun either way.t2 bpo'si wouldn't like to see them seeded on the market at all, nor do i want to see the return of the lottery. however, i would like to see t2 bpo's issued from either a r&d corps lp shop specific to race, so amarr r&d corps would see lasers, crystals, amarr drones, armour repairers and hardeners for example for a high lp cost the better the item will obviously cost you more lp, or you exchange your rp for a bpo. in that case, a nanite engineering agent could offer you an expander ii bpo and any other bpo that requires nanite engineering for x amount, wouldn't be a mass amount of bpo's available, but would also put invention in a bit of a pickle. a third option would be to have a corp based \"rp store\", much like the lp store for corps. so, if you have 4 r&d agents for one particular r&d corp it would be counted as a single rp store where your combined rp from all fields would go towards various t2 bpo's and their components and limited then by race.on a similar theme, maybe it's time to take a closer look at science jobs in stations and the general lack of me/pl/copy slots from high-sec all the way to npc null-sec, and how more people can use them without the need of getting a pos. perhaps with standings for that corp you have your own private set of slots, and gain more as your standing rises such as 2 of any slot type for standings around 4.00 and working up to about 5 or 6 nearing 9.00+ standing. could tie in faction standing to it as well perhaps, who knows. either way, needs to be looked at more, especially if all these new s&i changes will come about!high-sec woesthis, in all fairness, will probably always be an issue. for myself, i have no business in low-sec because it's not that great compared to what i can do in high-sec along with some unnecessary risks that some folks don't want to take. i believe many people prefer null-sec 0.0 over low-sec i for one do anyway, much bigger rewards there, but at a risk which i'm willing to take. how to go about making low-sec more popular i don't really know, but perhaps something that can appeal to both our combat and non-combat pilots out there fw isn't really the answer, but at least helped it.well that's all, should be fun to see what happens to all these and look forward to seeing how these might be applied!"
"i am all for supporting the high sec based players and promoting their fun in the game. i do like pvp and i am member of a \"pvp\" 0.0 alliance, however, i really find carebearing also to be fun for limited amount of time in the office every day.there is no need to add content to high sec aspect of eve. what it needs is challenge. honestly. what this side of the game needs is challenge. it's not challenging enough to manufacture something. you can build a bs in a few weeks after you start your industrial character and in a year, or a bit more, you can actually produce the t2 equivalent provided you follow the whole chain youself, research, getting funds to buy bs bpos, invention, etc. in two years, you can build almost all capital ships. the main problem is that you can do that on your own. invention was supposed to fill that hole, but honestly, it's just tedious and just promotes the use of science alts that never get played. it's not challenging per se.what 0.0 dwellers seek out there is not so much pvp or fame, but the structured environment in which to interact with other players and accomplish a common goal kick bob's or nc's butt for example, believe it or not camping a gate for four hours just to get podded in hell-lag has its perverse moments of fun. that's where the challenge is.why not give the same thing to high sec dwellers ? make it so difficult to build a single t1 bs that at least 10 people have to work together by making it so that it needs a hundred different components, ten of each, cheap to produce but requiring too many slots for a person with just 3 alts - just a crazy idea to get it done. make it so difficult to produce a marauder or a black ops that only a high sec alliance of 100 people can do it. maybe do something similar with modules.don't fear that ship/module production will take a hit. it will, until high sec rises to meet the challenge, but who cares ? let us blob in t1 frigs and cruisers in 0.0 instead of bses and capitals. might even make things a bit more interesting for a while, and losing a bs might actually mean something. win all around for high sec and 0.0.same goes for missioning. don't make it more profitable, make it more challenging. make so that in order to do a lvl4 in high sec thus no pvp you need 2 bs, 2 cruisers and a logistics ship - maybe even a command, and definitely an indy to do the salvaging/looting afterward. i'd love to be able to do a mission for laughs with 3 other guys using eve voice. right now, there is no need for that. yes, isk input in eve will take a hit for a while, but again who cares ? people will adapt to this and there is already too much isk around in wallets to keep people buying until things stabilize."
"\"eva csm ankhesentapemkah commented that research should also be a lot more dynamic, as research is currently too static and predictable. she suggested having a more variable outcome, as well as unique and special rewards that could be obtained through researching. an example was to add tech 2 blue print originals as a very rare outcome of an r&d process, as well as other new and unique items.\"i like the idea but not unless there are heavy skill reqs and the chance to get t2bpo is 1% out of 100%.otherwise current t2 bpo owners will uproar too much and invention might become useless because of the large amount of t2bpos.it would be nice to implement a time requirment such as you can't get more then t2 bpos per year via that process combined with the above percent that i posted i think that it would be balanced."
"the problem lies in the fact the people have combat mains and industry alts because the difference in skills required is very wide. for manufacturing in particular it would be nice to need the following manufacturing skills based on their current combat counterparts:spaceship command - industryfrigates and destroyers - small hull constructioncruisers, bc - medium hull construction requires small hull ivbs - large hull construction requires medium hull ivcapital ships - capital hull construction requires large hull ivt2 ship - advanced <racial> hull construction requires industry v, ships need this skill plus level v hullother possibilities:navigation - propulsion systems constructiongunnery/missile launcher operation - weapons systems constructionelectronics/shield - support systems constructionhull upgrades/engineering - internal systems construction"
"being fatalistic about lag comes from years of sitting on one side of gate or the other dying or being liberated of your ship while you wait for the grid to load. ccp has seriously conditioned us into accepting this lag as the status quo and we believe there is nothing that can be done about it; hence the apathy displayed by the eve community as a whole to provide pressure on ccp toward improving lag caused by massive fleet engagements.we recently had a titan pilot dd friendlies and allow the enemy to escape partly due to a laggy node. this is how influential the issue with the robustness of the eve servers is. the strength of the node becomes one of the major deciding factors in the outcome of major fleet battles in eve. the skill, determination and decisions of our pilots and fleet commanders become secondary and diluted by a faltering node.we see this happening all the time and just throw up our hands, shake our heads and utter that's just the way it is. - apathyccp can fix this and they are tentatively showing slow signs that they will in the future, at some point apply some effort to improvements to fix server lag. however, who knows when? we just need to pressure them into knowing this is the real and urgent priority to us, the pilots of eve, not all this other crap they are doing to \"improve eve\". when did core playability in mmo games become secondary to cosmetic improvement?laggy massive fleet engagements is a major playability issue to 0.0 alliance. we just don't know it because like pavlov's dog we've been conditioned over many years to ignore it and just live with it."
"let me just ask you this then - do you really think that they're unaware of the lag problems? remember, the devs play this game, and they're disproportionately pvpers. the old-timers among them were suffering lag before the game got out of beta, and they've been suffering it for the 5+ years since. i'm sure that they would, to a man, love to have silky-smooth responsiveness in thousand-man fleet ops. but they can't neglect game development to do it, since that's how they get new subscribers. and before you say \"less lag = more subscribers\", no, it doesn't. noobs don't experience lag, since they don't play in l4 hubs or fleet blobs, and even if they have discovered jita, it's an occasional thing. i'd love to see ccp rewrite the game's code, install a brand-new supercomputer, and run a fibre optic line from rekjavik to my modem. but it's not realistic. hence fatalism - they want it changed, i want it changed, and it'll change eventually, on its own schedule. the ten thousandth whine thread on the topic won't change that."
"i whole heartedly agree; but as you hinted on before, this is way more than just a server side problem. this end-result of their programming methods can be seen in our single-thread clients.why should your game freeze when you open up the corp history tab on a corp hopper?why should your game freeze when you accidentally open up your corp's sanctionable actions?why should your game freeze when you open up a hangar with a lot of items?one of the biggest killers is the fact that even when they modified the client to use directx9 graphics, they still maintained a single-threaded experience."
"while i'm not against them putting energy into these fleet issues in theory... i kinda feel that way too much energy goes into supporting the massive fleet stuff already.it does have marquee value, and they can show it off, and a few alliances really love them.. but the bulk of the eve population will never see one of these fights outside the news section and have very little interest in them.yet developer resources pour into null sec war mechanics more ships, bigger ships, alliance toys, etc etc to a detriment to other play styles.in other words, the stuff you are asking for is already the favored child of the development process, not some ignored little aspect. unfortunately it is also a really hard problem to solve which is why it always looks like so little progress is being made."
"the amount of time wasted on vanity projects such as the 'walking' expansion suggests more should have been about this by now."
"this balancing issue must not be forgotten."
"don't use it. probably never will but from the stats i have seen from many fights with arty ships in the ranks i tend to agree something needs to be done for the poor ducttapers."
"/not signed"
"the optimal range on this system is pathetic and it needs to be addressed."
"/signed"
"/+1"
"/+100%"
"i support this."
"100% supported"
"very /signed.having a relative who suffers severe color-blindness due to a major sickness in his youth he says watching movies now is the same as old b&w ones, i believe this will help.also, stealth poke for ui overhaul"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"i'm for this"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"definitely! as well as corp deliveries ..."
"/signed"
"c-c-c-combobreaker!!!!...nah, only joking /signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signedat least fix audit log containers in corp hangars."
"it would be rather nice."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"i agree this is an exploit.if you choose to join a corp that is in a war you should be made to stay in that corp till war is over period."
"yes, it's much easier than changing an entire mechanic or warfare. it used to be implemented, so just put it back."
"support, as this is an obvious exploit. but honestly, the whole war mechanic itself needs to be looked at. it's completely broken and doesn't at all serve any purpose anymore, and is basically only used for griefing. wars should be between corps and/or alliances, have a beginning, a goal, and an end. for example, if you wardec a 0.0 alliance, you should have to show your face in their space once in awhile if you want to maintain the war, instead of sitting in empire like a coward."
"i also support thisneeds to be an exploit"
"all though this subject was covered two days earlier>"
"i too agree that this should be considered an exploit and that it needs to be resolved."
"this fix is way way ez.simply make so u can't be fully accepted until your docked.the accepting corp could \"accept\" your application but it won't go into effect until you dock.problem solved."
"whichever gm you talked to must have been daft.leaving a corp to avoid wardec and rejoining later is a bannable offense, and thats clearly what he's doing."
"i agree with the thread title, i didn't read the text even if they can leave the corp, but remain a target until the wardec is over, i don't see a problem with that."
"okay guys hate to shoot some things down but here is reality...isk farmers make corps now... they infiltrate corps....shops use a character that they get into a corp in xyz alliance so that character can fly around and grab loot from the can farms the ratters use to store faction loot.they don't use the character much and anyone that uses this character tends to be an english speaking person.everyone has farmers and/or a farmer loot gatherer in their alliance and they don't know it... especially 0.0 space holding alliances.so, forcing restrictions on what agents they can use if they are not in a corp would just force them into a corp we can't wardec anyhow.you can never wardec an isk farmer corp, they don't have roles and drop the corp when the war is declared and jump into another corp within minutes.benn tried, tested and that is how they dodge wardecs.no amount of petitions for exploits do any good, gms say they can do it all day long and there is nothing to stop them.basically, the joke is on you for going after the farmers.. your lost isk and in the meantime they lost a grand total of 30 seconds - that's how long it takes for them to dock at the end of their mission and drop corp, accept an app in the next corp and keep trucking.the game mechanics are all for farmers at this stage.- they can evade wardecs- they can evade pvp by cloaking/logging- they can transfer isk via market transactions safely- they suicide alts in the ice fields at uptime to prevent ganks.- they are an immense drain on resourcesi am sure i have missed something....all of these ideas about kicking them out into corps is all fine and good but dodging a wardec should not be allowed.it would work if:- you could not leave a corp with an active or declared war- they were forced into corps.then macro hunter groups would actually clean them out easily."
"solution: every 10 cycles of mining, the person at the computer must do something that would be easy for a person but near impossible for all but the best macro programs. internet sites use those crazy picture codes, have the person at the computer input the code or do some sort of calculation.anything that makes mining more interactive will work. hope to see this in the industry patch."
"u want to stop isk farmers and isk spammers? just dont buy isk. its pretty easy.but i support this thread anyways :d"
"/signed"
"is that why i have reported 10 farmers so far and they have not been banned, not even one of them?i get the usual ' we will investigate the issue further ' response and a month later all the farmers are still up and farming. isk farming benefits only ccp hence why they arent really doing anything to fight them in the first place.**** ccp"
"something to keep in mind for everyone who keeps saying \"isk farmers are easy to spot.. i can see them, why can't ccp?\"....ccp has a somewhat different burden then playing when it comes to tracking down cheaters. they really can not act based off someone 'looking' like a macroer as opposed to someone with multiple or free accounts sitting and neurotically playing since they have actual money and potentially liability on the line. if a player gets it wrong, they get a bit of egg on their face and maybe feel bad, but probably don't care all that much. if ccp gets it wrong their bottom line is effected and they might potentially get into an argument with the credit card company about improper denial of service,.. which will cause a fine from the credit card company. and those can really eat into your pocket if you are a moderaly small buisness like ccp."
"covetors are still used to mine with more often than you may think. covetors are often used to mine in low sec and 0.0 situations where security is lacking or war time conditions exsist. less tears are shed over losing a 20m ship vs 100m ship.also for fun, fit a 1mn ab or a civilian shield booster in the med slot, works nicely too."
"the training times for the covetor are way too long compared to the next step up. it is the only t1 ship besides the iteron 5 that requires 5 in its primary skill..."
"agreed on both points. and i would also vote for the astrogeology reduced to level 3.@ treeloxthat's right, but it isn't an argument against this whole idea, right?"
"no it is not, but i dont really see much of a need to lower the requirements. the only benifit i see to lowering the requirements is that macrominers could be pushed out into the belts quicker. otherwise, i see no real need for this change, and i honestly believe that i would say that if i was starting over from scratch again."
"i see nothing wrong with adding more slots to the mid. however they will be relatively useless without additional pg/cpu.i see no reason to change the skill requirements."
"while lowering the requirements would not do much for the hard core focused miners, it would do wonders for those who are part time miners. right now unless you want to invest some serious time into skilling barges you have the effect of 'quick into retriever, stuck there'.the analogy for combat ships would be like having frigates, destroyers, then nothing till t2 battle-cruisers. fine for someone who all they are doing is training up for the big nasty combat ships but would kinda screw anyone who was only dipping in and wants a gradual progression."
"except destroyers don't obsolete frigs, cruisers don't obsolete destroyers, etc...the covetor certainly obsoletes the retriever."
"depends on where in the game you are talking. in mission running which is often compared to mining for instance, destroyers do obsolete frigates, cruisers obsolete destroyers, battle-cruisers obsolete cruisers, and battleships obsolete battle-cruisers."
"well the descriptions havent been changed yet, and the fact of the matter is that igs is full of roleplay, where you really don't want to mess things up with fw ooc posters, cas is way more dead then a zombie, and caod just isnt the place to throw fw discussions in, as will be felt by both fw and alliance players. as it is now, most stuff is posted in general, where it doesnt belong either.nothing and i repeat nothing in forum descriptions, sections or threads points to info about fw, so the person who wants to read about it has to skim through everything to find anything. on the boards is where the forum pvp should be happening, where the vendettas shud rise, where ppl can read at work about what battles with what results are happening, and that will keep ppl in the game, fafa fw is concerned. all you can see now is the stats page and thats it. and even there nuthing is happening, besides more and more ppl quitting on fw.im not even involved in fw, heck, im not even actively playing. i just visit these boards to see if fw is hot enuf to get me back into the game, and tbh what i see in terms of facilitating from ccp isnt very encouraging. ur doing something halfway, n not finishing it off or doing it properly. learn from other rvr games where things are indeed kicking. not having flamewars is bad, coz it only shows there is rivalry and competition, which is what fw desperately needs. dont be afraid to put some extra forum mod attention on it, u shud be stimulating this if fw is to survive as a viable concept at all.giving fw a forum is not putting it away in a ghetto, it means facilitating and stimulating it, giving it public face and recognition. it is stuffed away in a ghetto as it is now. heck, there isnt even a ghetto at present! as it is now, theres just nothing. giving it a platform = not hiving it away. if you cant see that, you just never did any rvr."
"i stand corrected. there isnt just nothing. no. there's a sticky in the eve general discussion.and? hold your breath, there's actually info stickied in the *drums* game development section. now why couldn't i think of that?"
"okay, for the sake of clarification, im going to elucidate you all on what the matter at hand is.the issue, raised by players and ccp and supported by a silent majority, is that carriers are becoming the new battleship. its a matter of simple mudflation and the progression of scope creep in eve online. the issue is not solo carriers, but fleets of carriers. yes, carriers need support, but right now the best support for carriers is unquestionably yet more carriers. we want carriers to be on the front lines, but we do not want carriers to be the front lines themselves.in order for developers to maintain interest among veteran players, they increase the marketability of their product by continuously releasing new features with new expansions. as time progresses, the levels explicitly or implicitly achievable by older players moves ahead farther and farther, yet newer players or in many cases, simply players who fly ships that require less skillpoints remain at the same initial starting point. this is known as scope creep, and it is bad for the game because ccp does not create ships so that they can be discarded after the next expansion; they want to see their roles preserved and they want to see time and money spent modeling and coding paying off as an investment. overall, scope creep leaves many players who do not want to participate in the constant vertical migration out in the cold. factional warfare, released in the last expansion, is an admirable attempt to turn back scope creep and give new players and smaller ship pilots something to do, but it does not address the core issues with the most profound instance of scope creep in eve, referred to as capital ships online."
"to substantiate the importance of this topic, allow me to show you some samples of developer quotes taken from eve-tv interviews from the pvp tournament in quarter 1 this year, viewable here"
"carrier change ideasover the past year, many suggestions have been raised for how to change carriers. some were good, some not so good. here are a few sample suggestions. one from zarch aldain from the establishment, one from ernest graefenberg from razor alliance, and one from yours truly.zarch aldains idea:"
"admittance:my ideas for how to modify fighter damage to allow a specialized carrier to do significantly more damage than current need some work. people want to be able to do more damage with fighters if they occupy all of their highslots with drone damage modules, but hardly anyone trains advanced drone interfacing to v let alone level iv and 1500 max dps like now is a little lackluster, and something like 2500 dps for a carrier with some lowered ability to hit smaller ships maybe? could be more reasonable. i don't exactly have a clear idea for how to fix that, though. however, i think my idea for \"nerfing\" spider tanks and incentivizing repairing support and not other capitals is very good, and something at least similar to it would be integral to the game behaving as the developers envisioned. recommended changes: at base, carriers can deploy 5 fighters/drones of their own 125mbit/sec bandwidth, but can still delegate up to 10 including original 5 to gang members with carrier v. a mothership can use 10 fighters on its own 250mbit/sec bandwidth at base but has 20 overall to use at once. change dcus so that they give +2 fighters/drones controllable by the carrier instead of +1, and +50mbit/s bandwidth. introduce new highslot module that does something like o disallows fighter delegation to gangmateso enables the carrier to use new \"bomber\" fighters that do 5x the damage of fighters, but have 1000m signature resolution for their turrets, are slower, occupy 5000m3 like a normal fighter, but you can only launch five at once. o disrupts the warp and jump driveo lasts 5-10 minutes and consumes fuel or not? similar to siege modeo problem: this makes a carrier's max dps similar if not the same as a mothership's. maybe give motherships an extra damage bonus to bombers, so they can do around 3500 dps 4375 for a nyx?  consider dividing the drone bay into specific bays: one for ordinary drones and one for fighters and bombers. make the regular drone bay 1000-2000m3 just in case the fact that carriers can carry thousands of light, medium, and heavy combat and logistics drones bothers you. it's not really a huge issue for me, but i dunno, it does kind of rub me the wrong way from time to time  reduce capital remote armor repairer, capital shield transporter, and capital energy transfer array rep amount and cap use by 1/3 don't freak out until you get to the end, please vastly reduce cpu requirements for capital energy transfer arrays, capital shield transporters, and drone control units  increase the cpu need for officer smartbombs; many officer and faction items are harder to fit than other meta levels, but smartbombs are an exception change triage module to have something like the following bonuses note that some bonuses are already there currently:1. +1000% bonus to sensor resolution faster locking 2. immunity to electronic warfare3. cannot move, warp, or jump probably, maybe could negotiate the ability to move on grid4. 2x bonus to capital remote rep/shieldtransporter/energytransfer amount more efficient 5. 2x bonus to capital armor repairer and capital shield booster amount6. .5x bonus to capital armor repairer and capital shield booster duration more repaired, but harder on cap use 7. immunity to capital remote armor repairers, capital energy transfer arrays, and capital shield transporters but not large, medium, or small ones8. 1000x capacitor need for electronic warfare modules9. cannot use its own fighters but can still delegate them to gangmates probably? 10. small boost to capital logistics module range? reduce skill prerequisite for tactical logistics reconfiguration to logistics iv instead of logistics v"
"the idea behind the \"5-fighter nerf\" was that it was meant to incentivize carriers repairing the support instead of just other carriers. only the support can use the fighters, and if the support dies, then the fleet has lost their effective total dps. to prevent this, the carriers have to keep the support alive; basically returning them to their original ideal role. the problem is not just that carriers and motherships can at least sometimes operate without support, but that in many cases the best support for carriers is yet more carriers, leading to unwanted alpha-classing.carriers aren't used to repair support in battles very commonly now because of lots of things both in and out of player control. people can't rep their support too effectively because of things like lag, where a subcapital ship will be dead by the time the repairer activates, making them want to rep other carriers instead. in addition, carriers always have much higher resistances than subcapitals, making it more efficient in terms of hp/second to rep other carriers. further, carriers are more expensive individually than subcapitals, so people want to rep those since it hurts more to lose a carrier than just a bs.making repairers extra worthwhile in triage mode means that carriers have to use triage to gain the real benefits to support, but also means that they can't spider tank their carriers anymore because of the immunity to capital logistics modules. this puts an upper limit on the number of carriers or motherships in a fleet, where at larger fleet sizes 100-200+ they are still somewhat useful, but i imagine people would find it too risky and would not want to bring them out because they would be afraid of getting primaried by an entire fleet and losing their carrier or mothership. to this, i would point out that a standard archon has 31 times the effective hitpoints of your standard fleet megathron, and the archon in triage can repair itself with one capital repairer that repairs as much as four and has the cap use of just two. if a battleship fleet primaries that archon and the archon's fleet attacks the enemy battleships, the battleships may have destroyed a carrier worth maybe 2.0 billion isk altogether, but the archon's fleet has destroyed at least as much in tech 2-fitted battleships and almost guaranteed substantially more in the same time frame.if you want to repair other carriers, you can still triage a carrier and have it repair an attack carrier, but if you want to repair a carrier in triage, you have to use subcapitals, such as logistics cruisers. a carrier in triage can transfer energy and repair armor or shield on a handful of logistics cruisers, and while that may not be able to keep a carrier alive under a fleet's firepower, it will still prolong the carrier's life at the very least. what's more, with a repairer's power split by three maybe more, it's up for debate, a carrier can repair multiple ships with greater efficiency but also adjust which modules to activate to retain cap stability. the maximum amount that a carrier could repair remotely has definitely decreased, and now there is a weak link in spider tanking's chain, but overall i think that people could adjust over time and, in the end, accept the benefits of greater efficiency, more ships repairable at once, more granular activation of logistics modules better cap stability, and more. still, maybe you could consider adding in a script that gives you basically the same triage module that you have now, just for fun."
"it could be the case that they may have to revisit the ewar immunity of motherships, retaining their immunity to conventional warp scramblers but removing the immunity to damps, ecm, and webs, since otherwise there is no weak link in the chain to take advantage of, but whether or not it is necessary is up for debate. other little things to consider buffing:fighter cost - they're a little on the expensive side. if they got nerfed, maybe it'd be safe enough to make them a bit cheaper? skill prerequisites - carriers require months of skills exclusive to capital ships that have absolutely no benefit to subcapitals, such as advanced spaceship command and advanced drone interfacing. ccp has already tried to alleviate this by introducing the black ops battleship, but still, please consider removing some skill prerequisites, such as jump drive operation v, advanced spaceship command v, and so on. this makes the blow a lot lighter for people who were in the middle of training for capitals but feel disappointed that they're going to be nerfed. and the skill training time is boring and causes harmful stratification between newbies and veterans, and thats bad enough.mothership buffs - please consider some of the ideas for the remote ecm burst and the clone vat bay published in this thread:"
"how about we fire zulupark and nozh?"
"i would like to see a lot more thought poured into carriers, and this is a good start. for now, signed and i wait with anticipation."
"bane is a smart and eloquent man"
"supportedhopefully this stays on topic, it was an excellent read. i was gonna ask for a tl;dr but it's actually worthwhile because there are good rationales in there."
"i endorse this message.**note: there are no emotes to suggest that i am joking."
"tl;dr version?????simply put are you pro or con zuluparks proposal concerning carriers?"
"stop whining and read the whole thing. it is much more in depth *than zulupark's* and you're being rude."
"bane, i have no idea whether i agree with your ideasand those of others that you bring forward, but they're at least interesting. i'm not wholly opposed to the state of carriers as-is, but i'd likely be in favour of a well-considered change to how they operate, as long as it ultimately made sense. carriers being endgame is a problem, and while i don't think it's as bad as zulupark's dev blog made it out to be, it's something i'd like to see addressed. capitals are for old, rich players who need a big hammer for a specific nail, they're not supposed to be pwnmobiles for the sake of it. i'm not sure any of the specific changes proposed are the right one, but i think you're at least barking up the right tree. tl;dr - read the damn post, cretin."
"then why reference zulupark in the subject line, if they are more \"in depth\"more thought out? than zuluparks?i can not be arsed to read anything more than 2-3 lines long if it contains his name in it. i'm sure you understand why....."
"zulupark's dev blog is the single most prominent example of the discussion bane wants to have regarding the roles of capital ships in the future, and he referenced it for that reason. and if you can't be arsed to read it, then stop being arsed to clutter up the thread whining for a secretary. either participate in the thread, or stfu/gtfo."
"understood, and that's fine. basically zulu has expressed discontent with 'capitals online.' based on that thought and similar discussions, bane constructed a solution that seems to lie parallel with the views and concerns of the developers. the carrier fixes he proposes attempt to shift it to more of a support role rather than it's current role as the quantum unit of fleet engagement."
"i am always stunned when i hear such sentiments from dev's, that they didnt \"expect\" capital ships to become the next bs. ofc they would, it only evolution they provided in game. everyone one wants bigger, badder, more pew pew. basic human nature, and the dev's perfectly fed it when they introduced carriers 2-ish years ago.anyways, back to the op, i am currently reading it, mulling it over, might even sleep on it and get back to you all later. rome wasnt built in a day, you know.p.s. herschel yamamoto, change your rag a bit more frequently, imo.p.s.s. fahtim meidires, at least we kept bane's thread in the top 5, while you educated me ;"
"this isn't the first issue that was initially voted down when it was too vague, and then reconstructed to specificity and posted in the assembly hall to gain fresh support and force it on the table. so it may be that's the goal. if it was presented poorly the first time, hopefully this suffices."
"bomber fighters?lol, so dreads will be usefull only for pos killing.also, imo fighter delegation need some nerf, because mostly during sub-capital ship fights carriers just sitting near poses and delegating fighters."
"this was all discussed."
"bumping this jeez."
"being a carrier pilot myself, i have to say, they have become the new battleship of eve tbh. carriers dont need to be nerfed combat wise tbh, they suck at it, the only thing they dont suck at combat wise is engaging targets that are smaller than themselves. so, carriers were meant to support fleets right?i tend to use mine in several roles:firepower fighterscarrying supplies, warp bubbles, extra ammo, scan probes, scan ships, cap charges, scripts, extra drones, etc.transporting ships to the frontlines, generally when we know longer-term engagements are going to go down.but, i also use it for logistical purposes, such as putting up pos towers, keeping them running, etc. i don't want a jump freighter and i dont want a rorquoral, as much as they would help with this.so the only combat duty it has is remote repping and assigning fighters, so how about...remove all ability for them to control their own fighters it sounds harsh, but makes sense, but increase the number of fighters they can control. think this was stated above, or something similar to itgive fighters the ability to use some kind of stasis webification but not warp inhibition, that would waaaayyy overbalance thingsmake them more of a mobile station and less of a bulldozer more corp hangar space, and maybe even a \"public hangar\" space for alliance or blue membersnow, here is my favorite idea. give fighters and other drones the ability to \"engage enemy drones\" so, instead of the carrier's fighters bulldozing everything in sight, you can maintain a sort of \"drone superiority\" and then work on the enemy's ships. in conjunction with this, give fighters better damage against drones/other fighters, and then give them 1/2 ish damage against battleship sized targets for instance, or as was stated above create a new class of fighter such as a bomber. i personally think this idea is awesome, because it could create some epic \"dogfights\" in addition to giving carriers a role that makes sense.nuff said."
"see, you gotta kinda prove that bit before we go any further.list the names of your silent majority - otherwise refrain from making the claim.use the phrase \"me and my alliance mates\"."
"voting for lavista vista to be kicked from the csm council.flaming fellow csm delegates without adding anything constructive to the topic at hand seems like a display of disrespect, shortsightedness and plain utter stupidity."
"bob, yet again trying to stunt game balance in favor of in-game vested interests, deploy to counter bane \"i-nerfed-titans\" glorious' ideas, more as this develops"
"what if with fixing current bombs ccp added either new class of torpedo bombers, or new weapons for sbs that did sufficient damage to capital ships. 99% grid reduction for citadel launchers? to prevent them from being used against pos modules instead of dreds they could get very tiny range so pos guns will always slaughter them."
"haters get out.voting to stop capital inflation 08'"
"or maybe i don't think the minority should be able to claim they are speaking for the majority when pushing an agnda which suits their vested interests?you get that, right?"
"supported"
"i enjoy this one here"
"good idea"
"this is really a lot of work, between nerfing nano ships and caps. wouldn't it just be easier to do a general skillpoint reset along with a 15 million sp cap?"
"just to be clear, is this the part that would be escalated? there are several different ideas brought up in your writeup, but it isn't completely clear which ones would be the ones proposed to ccp if this passes."
"lots of words that i generally agree with."
"as i said, these ideas are just sample solutions to the problem; what ccp decides to do is entirely up to them. all three will be included in the submission template for them to read, and they will likely give their opinions on their viability. escalation in this case is as the topic says, a discussion of the issue of carrier spam. ccp has no obligation to give a flying fart about my idea specifically."
"supported, at least as far as to have ccp readdress the situation. the current solution is less than optimal for numerous reasons; not the least of which is the lack of a focus for carriers.dreads kill structures and non-nano'd capitals. nanotitans are abominations, but anyhoo...rorquals are mobile mining and hauling beasts.carriers and by extension, motherships and titans don't have very well-defined roles. titans at least have a dedicated logistics/tactical angle to them with their jumpbridge ability. motherships can jump into an area and clonejump in some support, though this facility is of limited use aside from raiding.carriers are basically large dominixes, that have a large cargohold. is it any surprise then, that they are becoming \"the new battleship\"?give carriers a role and a defined function."
"well despite the fact that you already raised this exact issue before and been voted down i still support it in theory although without specific proposals it is impossible to give any support to the thread. unless of course you are planning on not presenting the issues without any proposals to ccp in which case i can't support it either as it would be a waste of their time."
"didn't read the rest of the posts?"
"i think this proposal just needs a clearer mission statement as the initial writeup in the op is vague, and then it quickly gets into very detailed specifics and you have to really dig to figure out what exactly the proposal is all about. at present simply supporting 'having a discussion' could go in so many ways that it is very hard to lend support to it, despite much more concrete sample recommendations appearing later on in the proposal.a firm statement at the start would really help this out. something like \"the csm should recommend that ccp revisit the idea of changing the carrier's role, and that that revisiting should involve increasing the level of specialization in any given carrier fit to prevent it from being a jack of all trades on the battlefield.\" and then later get into the specific types of fits you'd like to see possible, and what their weaknesses and strengths would be.basically something broad enough that people don't reject the concept because of some silly detail, but not so vague that people can't tell what they're signing on to when they support it."
"then i'll be sure to mention this in the meeting this sunday.can i have your thumbs up now?"
"itt goonswarm tries to get capitals nerfed so they have a chance."
"why is there no thumbs down option, because that's what i would pick"
"ugh. ccp has enough problems coming up with sweeping changes on their own. it rarely works out. as much as it might bore the lead developer, small incremental changes are the only way to do things in a game like eve, because the only place you can really learn about game balance is on the live server. the skewed risk/reward on sisi makes it useless as an indicator of how ships will actually be used on tq, and ccp has shown a complete inability to predict totally obvious yet potentially abusive game mechanics cruise missles on kestrals, titan fleets, etc. the biggest problem is that this post completely sweeps under the rug what your own alliance did over the past two weeks, where non-capital fleets were used convincingly. breaking spider tanks isn't rocket-science, everyone knows how to do it although it would be nice if damps on bonused ships at least could manage this again. the reality isn't that capital ships are necessarily overpowered, but that once you reach a carrier fleet of a certian size it's impossible to bring to bear a large enough subcap fleet against them. this is a lag issue as much as a cap-ships online issue. that said, you make a strong point about carriers being able to do too much at once while in combat. remote-rep + fighter dps + smartbomb/neut/etc means they don't have a lot of weaknesses other than ecm, and a large enough carrier blob will be able to survive those 15%-20% jam chances enough to maintain it's spider-tank. nerfing captial remote-reps seems like a pretty simple and straightforward solution eg: cutting their rep amount and cap use in half that isn't likely to have any major side-effects you'd need to half the volume of the reps as a result, and their mineral cost, and make every single cap remote-rep into two when the change is implemented, but that's all stuff that's been done before."
"caps turned this game from intresting and fun into boring pos wars and lagfests."
"this is a good enough post, so thank you. i agree that the biggest problem with carriers is the difficulty with breaking spider tanks and how their strength increases in a supralinear fashion as carrier numbers increase. ernest's idea for carriers might be the most like what you're looking for."
"no, i think you'll find that poss did that."
"we have an absolute ****load of carriers these days."
"i'd support that statement more or less unedited.calling them 'jack of all trades' sums up the issue nicely: the issues with carriers is not that they are, strictly speaking, 'overpowered' they die fairly frequently in combat, even to subcapitals but that they have the ability to carry out almost any role one can think of reasonably well with a single generic omni-fitting. it would be more in keeping with eve if carrier pilots were forced to commit to a particular role like the pilots of every other shiptype are, if not at the point of purchase then at least at the fitting screen."
"i will never support a change that takes fighters out of my own control. they're my fighters, not my gangs. i trained for them, i bought them, i want to control them. and i think it -highly- unfair that in order to use my ship, i'm required to have other people around to use it for me. that's ridiculous. i should always have the option to use my ship as i see fit, and not require other people to use it. the -risk- should be higher without support players around me, but that would be my choice to use my ship in a risky manner.imagine me telling you that in order to use a battleship, you had to be in the gang of a person with wing command 3 in order to use your guns? that you can only use 3 of your 6 guns if you aren't in a gang w/ a wing commander 3 leader? yeah, it makes about as much sense as me not being able to order my own fighters around. the issue is spider repping. the issue is not fighter control. nerf the spider repping, the issue with capitals being all powerful will begin to fade. it's a very simple fix. you can only use capital remote reppers if in triage mode. this makes carriers a sitting duck.i support making dcus more viable. a dmg increase sounds nice.capitals should use capital-modules-only in high slots. give us a capital smartbomb/neut, make sure the fitting requirements are increased, restrict non capital mods in highs, and you'll see less problems. mothership tanks need to be improved. they're too easy to take down solo. the right gang can do it quickly and without a ton of players involved. i expect a ship that i paid 25 billion incl fittings and trained 2 freaking years for will last longer than 3 minutes on the battlefield."
"that's just it though--this isn't a battleship, and one of the points of this thread is to keep them from being less-mobile harder-hitting versions of battleships. maybe nerfing the spidertank will be sufficient; maybe more of a stick is needed to wedge carriers into a specific role.i'm in the same boat--i've actually trained several accounts to use carriers, and it is entirely possible that when the carrier is \"repurposed\" or \"better-defined\" i'll be screwed out of the utility i had in mind. however, a generic do-everything ship is not good for eve.one thing i'm hoping for is a reduction in the capital remote rep modules in terms of fitting and ability....and a reduction to logistics 4 for the triage module. i think the original vision of the carrier was for a subcapital support vessel/force multiplier, and if that happens to be the defining vision then i hope it gets to be a bit easier to train into that role. having to train dozens of skills to 5 as prerequisites to even sit into the carrier and fit the mods let alone use them well is very harsh; logistics 5 is basically forcing people to train battleship 5 all over again."
"my example was just used for the principal of the matter. i 100% agree that carriers shouldn't be the \"all around gods\" of the battlefield. but carriers are just that - carriers of fighters. the fighter should define the carrier, not the mods the carrier pilot decides to equip. if carriers want to do better at repping members of their gang, withdraw their fighters and put out repping drones. so again, reduce the effectiveness of the remote reppers, remove the ability to equip non-capital modules in high slots add more of a variety of capital modules with appropriate fitting costs though, and you will see a big difference in the ability of capitals to demolish everything on the battlefield and never die. yeah, making logistics 4 the pre-req for triage won't hurt either. there is no need to require delegation of fighters or put other cavioughts sp in order for a pilot to even use his ship though in order to obtain a balance of capitals in the game."
"i think that this is worth pushing forward."
"even assuming you limit yourself to these proposals, that's just it. they are proposals in the plural. you're still attempting to forward a large number of proposals in one csm vote. you need to break it down into individual proposals.congratulations. a really big post. this is your proposal to the csm for escalation? all these changes and ideas from yourself and others whom you give url's for? this is nothing more than a goonswarm wish list designed to give them a bigger, easier win button.as you claim to be a recent graduate in business, i would have expected a much better presentation than this confusing, bulk array of ideas, quotes, opinion from a player you don't even name darius?, personal opinion expressed as the \"silent majority\" and nerf ideas for carriers. one of these ideas, \"at base, carriers can deploy 5 fighters/drones of their own 125mbit/sec bandwidth, but can still delegate up to 10 including original 5 to gang members with carrier v. a mothership can use 10 fighters on its own 250mbit/sec bandwidth at base but has 20 overall to use at once\", is the same one ccp zulupark was unmercifully flamed for when he made it. forcing carrier pilots to have what amounts to a co-pilots in order to deploy their own fighters.what this all boils down to is:- reduce effectiveness of carriers.- decrease skill training necessary to pilot carriers.- force carriers into a support role as opposed to a direct combat role.- increase the effectiveness of smaller ships against carriers.- decrease effectiveness of carriers against smaller ships.- increase the dependence of carriers upon smaller ships. even to the point of making the carrier pilot dependent upon smaller ships to deploy the carriers own drones.- minimization of the effectiveness of skills older players have and maximization of the effectiveness of skills newer players have.and what that boils down to is; candyland for a large alliance composed of relatively new players who are too impatient to dedicate the resources to train for and purchase capitals and who prefer to blob with less expensive and easier to fly ships. instant gratification has always been the hallmark of goonswarm.older players with more skills and resources that have been developed over years are what is under attack here. without carriers and other capital ships these players will be easily overwhelmed by an alliance such as goonswarm represents.windjammerp.s. playing the race card is repulsive enough without being vulgar about it. besides, photographic evidence seems to indicate you're a curly haired white kid. needless to say i and others will not be puckering up regardless of the skin color."
"the idea of carriers having to specialise is an interesting one, and one i think would benifit the game as a whole.maybe having to sacrifice the cha and/or the sma to achieve maximum dps or repping potential would be usefull as well, and incentivising filling highslots with +dps or repping modules ie, make 4-5 dcus or remote reps usable and useful would make it harder to be a jack of all trades."
"how have i not signed this?"
"hi i came accross this issue recently when i had been contracted to do a copy job on small nosferatu 1 bpo specifically the order was for 20 max run bpc's imagine my suprise when i found out that this would take a grand total of 62.5 days to do he job which given other small module high slot item times seems unreal to be honest.so to give a run down of the research copy times per single copy on the vampire family assuming science five skill please see below.small nosferatu 1 - 15 minsmedium nosferatu 1 - 30 minsheavy nosferatu 1 - 60 minsto give a comparison lets compare this with the nosferatu's cousin the energy neutralizer familysmall energy neutralizer 1 - 1 minsmedium energy neutralizer 1 - 1 minsheavy energy neutralizer 1 - 1 minsi have bugreported this issue as i had believed it was a bug and i know that previously the copy times on the nosferatus were a lot lower than what they are now and the responce i have received was as follows.so what i am asking is that the csm take up this issue and ask ccp to bring the energy vampire bpo's copy times into line with that of the energy neutralizer bpo's after all when you consider that they are both part of the same energy subsystems family it seems rather strange that they have such vastly different copy times."
"interestingly enough the small nos bpo used to have the following copy stats, but i am unsure when/why this was altered.hopefully csm will take up this issue and get it resolved and bring the research times back to how they used to be and inline with the other mods in the energy subsystems family."
"not an issue that effects me but with the current wishes of ccp being towards balance i think it is important to balance everything."
"obviously agree with my own topic"
"i agree for balance sake this should be addressed."
"the response to the bug report seemed to say that small nos and small neut have the same copy time, but the data you provided indicates that they do not. is the gm who responded to you in error, is your data in error, or am i just reading this wrong?"
"its not a gm response, discussing gm responses is not eve allowed. the response was from a bughunter and they usually consult with the people in the know about that sort of a thing.if you ask me this does not really warant a csm issue, its very small and not really breaks anything or causes massive issues for anyone."
"in essence i would agree but to me it looks like ccp are saying \"as intended\" when what has probably happened is they have fecked up the db entries for the nosferatus given the apparent disparity between them and neutralizors. i would not actually have taken this path were it not for the fact that i have petitioned and bug reported and re-submitted bug report as i was not happy with initial one line responce and basically been left no option forward on it than what the bughunter themselves suggested i.e. use the csm function."
"lol good point +1 for reading i am actually going to reopen the bug report because i didn't read properly what the bh said at first re small energy neut 1... will respond back here once i hear more edit: blimey bug hunters reply quicklyso yeah guess the previous bh'er mistyped"
"this. i don't want to disable effects outright and not see important stuff that could actually kill me, like dictor bubbles and doomsdays. but right now one of the simplest visual issues with eve is looking at a bs fleet that appears to be in a pond kids are throwing stones into."
"pls"
"dualboxing one character who flies a falcon and a buzzard and another who flies a thanatos is a total nightmare because of this restriction. while it should be just a two click process to switch from one hull to another, instead it takes five minutes of shuffling scan probes and lo around just so i can keep my cargohold full of the things i need to go about my business.utterly unacceptable."
"agreed."
"carrier pilot posting to say that this is needs to be looked into."
"please yes"
"yeah you guys basically need to either start learning how un-fun your game is to play or start listening to the players who actually play your game. fix this and maybe increase playability for once instead of adding broken new features that nobody asked for or wanted."
"as you have some need to not allow the cha of a carrier to allow it to be used for logistics as some form of \"meet in the middle\" not allowing industrials in the cha of carriers could be an option."
"please for the love of eve devs take notice and act on it!"
"agreed."
"seriously, this change needs to happen"
"while i don't fly capitals / carriers, this sounds like a good argument..supported"
"supported"
"yace"
"very much agree./signed"
":snypa:"
"great idea"
"nice"
"i approve."
"do it fffffff"
"ex to the zee makes an excellent point. signed."
"was a good change.no support."
"so say we all."
"voting yes on dis"
"i think there needs to be more than just ammo allowed but not everything. in specific i am talking about cyno fuel etc."
"nice troll"
"do it, ****!!!"
"to: ccpif it ain't broke, don't fix it.it wasn't broke, you fixed it.unfix it.lovingly yours,vakor"
"yase"
"this was always a horribly conceived nerf."
"this"
"how can i effectively run a group of frigates from a carrier fully fitted and ready to go and extra parts to spare with this nerf?i thought the idea of carriers and motherships were to be mobile stations, thus why they have clone vat bays etc, what's the point of those if people can't effectively use the ship for the very purpose they're designed for.things need to be changed back to how they were, or have less restrictions."
"please do this. there are far better options available for large-scale hauling and it makes too many little things annoying."
"poorly implemented then, unnecessary now. probably the most ham-fisted change i've seen ccp make."
"i agree if only to allow things like base minerals and trade goods to be held in ship cargo while docked."
"how about allowing everything but haulers to have stuff in their cargo hold? or as someone else stated only allow 1km3 in a cargo hold."
"/signedrostran targo, future carrier pilot"
"make life easier, sure why not."
"please do this - the restriction no longer serves a purpose"
"signed"
"makes sense to me; i'll bring this to the next csm meeting for consideration.iz"
"having just got into carrier use, i can vouch for the frustration of trying to swap ships, only to realise you have one non-0ammo item in your cargohold, or trying to scoop some ships left in a pos etc etc."
"/signed"
"still is a big deal, especially for me. i abhor having my chatbox moving around when i open the market."
"i will sign any ui fixing post."
"ui needs a good long hard look at but some specifics needs to be presented."
"my main issue is the silly bugs that seemed to crop up recently.tho a complete revamp would not be unwelcome."
"/signed"
"you have to actually click support to sign this.we need a multithreaded ui so we don't hang when opening a window and eventually multiprocessor support."
"fix ui!"
"i agree that titans need to be changed, but i also think that doomsdays can be salvaged. even if doomsday damage remains the same, limiting their range 30km instead of 250 maybe?, and adding a drawback that would make them be more of a \"last ditch resort\" can't cloak, can't warp, -50% rep amount, and can't jump for a period of time or something wouldn't be bad.i would actually like to see that titans would be used as more of a \"front line station\" as well, but have their turrets be useful as well, instead of their highslots being only neuts, smartbombs, and cloaks besides jump bridges and doomsdays, with some using clone vat bays."
"not signed. if you remove the doomsday outright, no one will ever deploy a titan in a vulnerable position - and no one will have the chance to kill them. instead give them offensive abilities that work alongside a support fleet rather than making it a fleet in itself."
"this will create a new and greater dynamic in deep space logistics"
"i like it. it's simple, easy to implement, etc."
"agreed. people shouldn't need to ask which ts channel we're on every 2mins."
"now we can tell people to read the motd every 2min"
"/+1"
"i support this."
"agreed.bloody pain."
"i would like to encourage the csm to think about this:multiple windows for the market tab. like you could actually view market details and my orders at the same time, or compare prices of the same item with different meta lvl or even different types, like ion and neutron blasters. would make it much more comfortable imho."
"yes my veto is in."
"pro tip... use your wallet window to look at your orders and the market window to look at market details at the same time.now on to your idea, i would love to be able to have a few different details open at the same time. sadly even if we got support for this idea, and csm passed it through, i bet the database devs would cry that it would make to many calls on the database, slowing down nodes, maybe crashing them, etc etc etc.still a thumbs up from me."
"/+1"
"tim, i don't think veto means what you think it means.anyway, this is an excellent idea and would be a huge time-saver. definitely supported."
"hehe yeah i noticed that too, but i figured id give him a break since he got all the right letters for the word \"vote\""
"sounds reasonable - would save me a whole lot of switching back and forth to compare various things."
"1 remove eccm modules and make eccm a sensor booster script. this makes good sense, and addresses the reasonable complaint that eccm is the only ew counter that doesn't do anything else.2 change the signal distort amp to affect all forms of ew; damps, tds, tps. if +16-20% strength per mod is too much and it might be considering the non-ecm ships have more low slots, and ccp seem to want lower ew strength for non-ecm ew, then 10-12% or 12-15% would still be pretty useful imo. caldari ships should still have the most powerful overall ew, but other races should be allowed the option to use fitting options to increase their power. losing low slots is a pretty decent tradeoff for ships which are actually supposed to fight.3 add an ew falloff range rig. sensor damps and tds rely heavily on their falloff range.in short, i'm not in favour of an ecm nerf, but i do believe that other forms of ew need a little help to be more useful."
"1 is interesting, and as long as they figured out how to compensate all involved i could go for it. 2 makes good sense, and 3 does as well."
"thank you. there's probably more that could be done, but i'm trying to keep my proposals deliberately simple and modest.if a t2 sensor booster can add +60% sensor strength, that will give a very significant boost to the chance of resisting a jam to larger ships. 2x t2 would, with stack penalties give about +210%. this isn't exactly an ecm nerf, but i think it would allow a much larger number of people the chance to resist ecm attacks without fitting an otherwise inutile mod.with respect to boosting the other ew types, the sda change is the simplest way to implement it, and it's automatically balanced as well. the specialised ew ships will be able choose to reach their pre-nerf abilities - at the cost of gimping their non-ew ability. the choice will be there. i prefer to add options rather than always nerfing.the ew falloff rig is simply filling an obvious gap in the rig lineup. i know damps used to be overpowered, but not including this rig is simply blatant discrimination against gallante ew, which everyone now agrees is much less useful that it ought to be.the changes i propose would overall result in a little less overall power for ecm and a decent increment for non-ecm. caldari should be about more than ew, and the other races should be able to at least play the ew game."
"what we need is a eccm skill. there are skills, modules, rigs, faction, officer stuff that improve ecm jamming however there are very few things to improve eccm. we need to boost eccm. we don't need a nerf on ecm."
"i thought about that - tds and damps are both countered by skills, but i couldn't come up with a solution i liked. what's your suggestion?"
"absolutely"
"seems reasonable.full support and a highfive."
"noone uses maller, it's a crap ship most people does'nt even know about. my maller thread on the ships and modules section just instantly decayed with only 1 other person replying it. this clearly shows that noone flies the maller, noone knows how to fit a maller to make it competetive and that noone gives a **** about it.i propose that we increase mallers armor hp by 200% mass by at least 2000%, remove it's current boniis and give it a large mwd bonus instead.with the proposed changes the maller will be usefull as a bumper to knock ships larger than itself around. the huge inertia will allow it to keep its speed even if the mwd dies from scrambler \"the nanofix\" patch and also allow it to even give carriers a push.this will also solve the crappy whack-a-mole problem with stationhugging battleships and captials, the maller will simply push them away./e: forgot about that its turret slots should be reduced to 2, so that people does'nt abuse the extra armor and makes uberbuffermallers instead."
"naturally, i supports my own topic."
"okay, the maller sucks, i agree, but your idea is seriously appallingly bad. like, nightmarish.i'll give you a thumbs up, but jesus, i'm glad you're not the one calling the shots at ccp."
"after playing on sisi, and experiencing the new bs's that maneuver and fly like supercaps, seeing inty's nerfed in speed 40%, and looking at skills you trained and stuff you bought wasted and reduced to nothing, do you vote for no confidence in the management of the dev team, which admitted in the dev blog that they came up with the concept of this massive kick to the balls nerf in a mere 5 hours, whilst players have proposed far superior solutions over the last year?imho, whomever came up with this stupid plan should not be allowed to plan anything more complex than possibly lunch that we don't have to eat ever again! this proposal makes as much sense as swatting a fly with a nuclear bomb. and will produce the same collateral damage. 117km/s with nav 5 on a freaking raven... stupid."
"i of course support my own proposal."
"if they only came up with this nerf in 5 hours then that in itself is questionable.just based on the number of pages in the yes to the nerf/no to the nerf motions in this forum i would say that this is a very big deal.i don't support the nerf because the nerf represents the whining and crying of those that never actually tried to combat nanogangs.it's actually quite easy."
"edit: thought twice, i'll avoid bashing the op."
"i hope they made the nerf in 5 hours - honestly it is a good tactic and hear me out here:first off we all know that the speed nerf is subject to change. the fact that this warning is in big yellow letters tells u that not everything will be included. the best way to test a speed nerf is to apply everything at once, then look at the pros and cons of each individual change.i doubt half of the nerf will make it through, but i applaud the devs if they all got drunk and in 5 hours thought of all the things that could balance speed. we'll see in a week or two a completely revamped nerf that will be tested again before the final changes."
"honestly after hearing player feedback in general i'm quite convinced that eve is better off if they dont listen to player feedback in general"
"four devs who have been thinking about speed for a year sitting down and spending five hours hashing out ideas face-to-face is a whole hell of a lot more than five hours of forum *****ing. frankly, that sounds like a whole lot of time to me - i'd be unimpressed by 20 people for 5 hours, but 4 guys can actually get stuff done. i don't really like a lot of the changes, but i'm not going to vote no confidence because of that alone."
"personally, you would have gotten a check from me is you had called for a \"vote of no confidence in the balance team\".after all, i wouldn't be paying to play if i thought all of the devs were doing a terrible job. some of them are really cool guys. *cough* greyscale. *cough*the one thing i will second however, is that it does seem at times that all some members of the \"balance\" team *cough* zulupark *cough* nozh *cough* do 24/7 is sit around, drink beer, smoke ganja, and dream up as many ways as possible to screw over eve and its playerbase.my two isk.cheers.p.s. the final insult: 117 m/s raven. 125 m/s max skill fenrir. yep. that's right. the freighter is faster than the battleship. something a little wrong with this picture you think \"balance team\"? maybe? huh? just a little??"
"supportin' da op. my positions are quite clear in the threads i've started and discussed in. its a terrible idea."
"the single biggest problem with nano ships wasnt their combat abilities, it was how fast they could move across the map and evade things they shouldnt be able to."
"like they were too fast?"
"in a manner of speaking. ccp has been trying to help keep alliances into a more local focus rather than spanning multiple regions. this is why they dropped sov 5 from my proposal when they used it. it is also why they made more entrances into 0.0.nerfing nanos to ccp is primarily about traffic control and population management. what they are doing is trying not to overdo it.but most players are too selfish to notice anything other than their ships not doing 10km/s+ anymore."
"[nozh mode] thank you for pointing this out sylthi, we of the dev balance team realize we have made a mistake here, and are fully willing to admit that.freighter sublight and warp speeds will be halved with the next patch.[/nozh mode]"
"adapt or die you bunch of girlie girls."
"the balance team has no idea what they are doing, what they are screwing with, and are the epitome of how not to interact with people regarding game play changes...pretty much a lot of idiots"
"lol wut the ****?i vote you kill yourself"
"lol, what?yes, you're going to vote zomg no confidense in the entire development team. oh, man, burn!so what does that actually mean? nothing. squat. it means angry people on the forum have made posts that range from valid to completely asinine regarding a design change.if you want to vote no confidence in the development team, do it with your wallet. anything else, especially something as dumb as this, would be pointless."
"look, please quit it with silly \"no confidence\" in x,y,z threads. they have no meaning. its just spam. get on the test server. test the changes. help the devs and testers see the impact of these changes on the game and make your point in a useful way.can we have this thread locked please?"
"buy a stock majority or stfu!"
"vote with you feet and wallet, not with some stupid thread no one gives a **** about if you feel that strongly.supporting anyway, just in case."
"cross-post from:"
"i think you are right, most people suggesting changes only look at the specific ship and its counterparts and expect the ship to have the same qualities. instead all ships are created differently and have their own little quirks that make them interesting to play with.looking at the bigger picture is much more interesting, and probably a lot more people care and have ideas about that. i think what you csm folks should try and get some discussions going on the different aspects of things that you feel could do with improvement. after all you are elected to lead the discussion and interpret the wishes of the community."
"lavista, is the goal to come up with a recommendation on how to handle ship balance issues? what response are you looking for from the other csm members?does the csm need some formal action from ccp to redirect ship balance concerns through other channels? or can that goal be accomplished more informally and immediately?assuming ship balance issues were somehow collected into one master list and ratified by the csm or the playerbase, would that be an appropriate format/item to present to ccp?would the csm be endorsing specific actions such as powergrid increases and module changes?if the csm simply refused to take up ship balance issues, the attentions of the community may just be redirected to the bigger picture things. in a way it is up to the csm to provide leadership and filtering on this and not just wait for the playerbase to tell them what to do. i think it's far too slippery a slope to continue entertaining these highly specific issues that ccp is unlikely to respond positively to."
"yes. i think for continuity reasons, it's important we figure out a good way for handling balancing issues. unlike \"bigger\" issues, balancing issues tends to be fairly simple.thus, a streamlining for the process, as described, would be a possible solution. but for now, lets have a good discussion. changing the way a body like the csm, shouldn't be taken lightly. since we need to represent the community, they need to understand how the council works too. and they have a say, too.i'm sure if we talk to ccp with a proposal for how we should submit these, it will be fine.else, we can restructure our internal processes, but that is not too good due to continuity. yes, that would be pretty good, in my eyes. i suggested a similar way in the op.it's hard to say. the csm would of course have to agree, that these suggestions are to be presented to ccp. but i'm not sure about how a vote would work on that, etc.we would have to discuss this for implementation at a later time.yes, you are completely right. i would hate to see that the community think we are filtering balancing issues, just because we can. it seems elitist. the problem is, that there is no channel for raising balancing issues, from the community to ccp. i would like if there was a way, but i don't think csm is the best place. but sadly, it's the only place. that would force us to do it."
"ship balancing issues, as lavista rightly points out, is just one of the smaller issues that takes up a lot of time for the csm.ship balancing, imo, can never be 100% perfect for all of the eve players, due to the fact that a player can have characters in any of 4 races, with secondary racial characteristics. this means that ccp gives each race exactly the same set of ships ignoring racial differences, which would result in some races getting better bonuses in some areas and others in different areas, or it tries as it has to take account of the strengths of a race and cater ships towards those.this means that straight off, before skills are taken into affect, there is a spectrum of different ships that will each suit different types of players. within each class of ship for each race, there is further possible variation depending on the skills of the character and module-fitting/use ability, rigs etc etc.essentially, there are many possible types of final ship types, depending on a character type and skills etc. it then follows that there will be major differences between the ship of a certain race class and that of a different race of the same class.this is all kept continuous in-game via the storyline, with different corps producing the types of ships for each race, each ship with its strengths and weaknesses.the problem comes when a player designs a ship they think will do well against other ships, only to find that another ship has an advantage in an area they have overlooked.essentially, the ship-balancing calls place the csm and ccp in a no-win situation. players want an uber-ship that can hold its own and defeat other ships. we don't like it when we overlook something and are made to pay the price on the battlefield...anyone watching tourney battles will quickly come to the conclusion that certain ship types are useful in certain situations; there is no one answer.it's essentially like cars in real life: each is made to do or fulfil different functions, they all look different and have different attributes. they even are made by different designers and manufacturers...the 'betterness' of one type over another depends upon how they are employed and who is using them, and the situation they are used within.i personally don't think the csm should be used as a portal for ships to be tweaked to make them better or like another ship. there is a place for it; it's called the features and ideas discussion forum.edit: i don't think balancing is needed, unless there is some major area that is not working as intended eg., speed. variety, as they say, is the spice of life.arithron"
"i've been on record from the very beginning see link below sig pic that i am not inclined to support ship nerf/love always love, really - few people ask for ships to be nerfed unless there is an extremely good case for it. this is the 'game' we have and generally we choose to fly the ships we fly; if we don't like one particular ship we always have the options subject to skilling for it to fly a different make race and model.sfaiac the csm should be more concerned with considering how the universe works than how a specific module or ship is engineered ...iz"
"i like what ccp did with the sansha faction ships, personally, and would like to see the same done to angel ships and blood ships in some regard as well."
"nah"
"tarminic's idea looks exactly like mine... only he added limitations to what systems and modules you can target based on what defenses are still in place.as for \"how\" to make it work...try using a survey scanner sometime. it opens a new menu window, just like your overview... with little dropdowns for the various ore types. then you leaf through the options, based on range most often, and start mining.this systems scanner could do the same thing. you lock onto a ship, and activate the scanner. it opens an extra menu, which wouldn't be too big and obscuring since all it'd show is weapons, shields, armor, engines, warp, cap, etc. basically all the vital parts of the ship. i don't see this system allowing you to very precisely target their \"large armor repairer ii\"... but it could cause damage to \"armor repairs\" which would carry over. and if you happen to be caldari, then targeting their \"armor repairs\" wouldn't do much good, now would it?little menu box, with a couple of options. score enough hits, and they can't fire back... or they can't mend damage... or they can't run away..."
"now it's good =dtargeting of subsystems could be implemented in the targeting menu as a drop-down option that falls off the side of the right-click menu. also as a drop-down from the target button in the selected item window.sub-systems should have a specified very low percentage of the signature radius of the targeted ship. this makes it automatically very hard to hit with anything more than very below-tier weaponry.sub-systems should be reparable by remote-reppers, allowing triage to put a wounded cap back into action etc. sig radius just makes them harder to lock here, giving logistics and triage more lease in life.sub-systems should have a small slice not adding up to 100% of shield/armor/structure of the targeted ship, simulating the overwhelming of all local defenses in a very specific location all the way through the structure.sub-system damage should be counted against the total hp of the ship using the regular damage calculations on a simulated slice of the ship's hp. ie if it takes 16000 shield, 12000 armor, and 14000 structure to blow up the sub-system, that amount of damage should be applied to the ship's shield, armor, and structure.aoe weapons do not affect sub-systems at all. 6000m radius is not pin-point enough =psubsystems should automatically repair their structure over time, but require remote or local repping to recover their armor/shield.sub-systems should receive repair from ship's own tanking mods, but with a weighted percent of total damage repair applied to the sub-systemi don't know how all this became so clear to me so fast, but i can already hear the 11,000 carrier pilots cringing and the bomber pilots going nuts synopsis of the implementation:small ship weapons will hit your sub-sytems on capital bs as well? ships. if they can blow up the protection and do structure damage to the system before you can get a rep-cycle in, you will start eating sub-system structural damage. these systems will regen over time, becoming active again upon reaching full structure. they will become deactivated again once damaged to 0 structure again. a carrier or any logistics can give your sub-systems extra protection. get rid of small ships to prevent losing access to systems.available systems should be:propulsion jump drive, speed and agility cut way backhigh slotsengineering large capacitor drop/no rechargesensors easier to jam, slower locks, lose rangeyes, jump drive. you have smartbombs, fighters, drones, ddd's, and should have support. a wing of bombers working effectively can pin a cap/super-cap. big trade-off of pilots required, pilots who could be flying tackling ships, which are more general purpose and probably regarded as superior in pvp anyway. fair trade in tactics. you can still warp, but align very slowly.i think hitting tanking mods makes absolutely no sense because it'd be more like hitting the module that is the locus of all defenses of the ship. there would be so much shield/armor rep coming from that location that the small weapons that could hit it would be working against the total hp of the ship, not just a slice.basically your worst nightmare as a cap pilot becomes getting alpha-strikes from bombers that hit in between rep-cycles. anything else probably won't have the alpha/tracking/explosion radius to hit the weak point hard enough fast enough. i stress that the sig radius should be very small and the hp should be to where a bomber wing can pin a cap fleet. bombers are a specialized ship with not so much usage, so don't complain that it's too much for a small ship, because it's a specialized ship that will still require good coordination.pos warfare trick of the month is to blow up the engineering on a dread and take it down before it's out of siege."
"i would support this for targeting capital ship systems thus making smaller vessels a danger to them like that a wing that takes out the executor bridge in return of the jedion smaller vessels i don't think it would be as good."
"anyone here played tie fighter? loved that game."
"i still think the tactical sensor module would be easier to implement.1 to prevent sub-system damage from a 150km sniper, the sensor has a much closer range. you have to be pretty up close and personal in order to hit specific locations rather than just the ship in general.2 the sensor could open a separate menu to display the weak points, and the damage meters for each. personally, i get irritated with all the right+click flyout menus. if you wiggle your mouse just slightly, then they disappear or choose something completely different. whereas a separate menu would be easier to navigate in the heat of combat.3 i don't think that sub-systems should each have shields/armor/hull. that's what the ship has in place. so either taking the suggestion earlier, and saying you can't lock certain systems until the ship's defenses are already down... or just making sub-system damage resemble heat. each area will have a certain amount of damage it can take before it goes down.4 i don't think they should repair on their own, nor should remote reppers work. but i do think we already have the tool for making repairs on our own... nanite paste."
"ah, i was thinking about it recently as well, when i found the \"drawing board\" section of patch notesi was thinking on how to implement this, and i think i came up with a good idea, first you would need skills to use it something like:targeting level ivsurgical strike level ivsub-system targeting level inow, what you could do, would be like this, instead of aiming specifically for specific modules, ie a vagabonds mwd for example, you could aim for high slots; mid slots; and low slots, and it would be like overloading modules i cant overload modules yet, so correct me if im wrong but you konw when you overload modules, they get damaged, and un useable for a certain amount of time? well, what if you could do something similar in this case?like this screen shot see that half circle under structure? and the 2 lines that seperate it into 3 sections? you could be able to target high slots; mid slots; and low slots, and if the first bar was gone, that rack could be deactivated for i would say 3 minutes no module damage, you shoot him some more, and if the second section was shot down to 0, now the modules are damaged, and then deactivated for 5 more minutes the times could stack on top of each other, ie, you shoot him straight to 2/3 down, so his modules would be deactivated for 8 minutes when and if you shoot it down all the way, the modules are extremely damaged, like 39/40 down, and the modules are deactivated for 10 minutes, regardless if you repair them, or dock at a stationbut these modules wouldnt be exactly easy to hit either, it would have to be along the lines of trying to hit a small drone going like 500meters per second or something, and you cant even web them the modules so even if you webbed the ship down to 5 m/sec the modules would still have to be hard to hit, of course it would also have to be easier for smaller ships to hit them since they are smaller and use smaller guns themselvesthis would help alot imho, so now pirates could shoot or try to shoot modules instead of damaging a shipfor other things normal ship propulsion idk, i dont think it should be a death sentence because if you think about it, soemone shoots your propulsion out, you are a sitting duck, and dont know what if the pirates are going to just keep you all there, and maybe pop you one by one lmao that would funny though, line them up, you konw you are next, the other ship is itno armor, structure, boom, then you hear the locking sound on your ship, lmao anyway, if it was to implemented, i think i have a good idea on how that would work as well, maybe you could shoot propulsion out, and it just damages it quite a bit, like they shoot out your sub-light, it would also have its own little bar of health, but instead of it being deactivated, its performance should be cut down, ie, first section is shot out, ship can only go 66% its normal speed, second section shot out, ship can only go 33% its normal speed, 3/3 shot out, ship can now only go 1% its normal speed, and this would work out still on modules that are based off that ships attribute, you have a mwd that allows your ship to go 15km/sec for example, they shoot out your propulsion, and your ship can only go 1% of 15km/sec, now your ship can still go 450m/sec even with its propulsion shot out due to its mwdsame thing should go for warp engines, your warp speed could be messed up, yoru ship warps at 3au/ second, now it can only warp like 0.5au a second for example, or maybe it could suck way more capacitor to warp out, or maybe a combination of bothbottom line though, no amount of module popping should prevent you from escaping completely, no matter if your propulsion, mwd, and warp engines are shot out, you could still warp away, its just more difficultsame thing with weapons and protection, you should still be able to use them, it should"
"sorry about double post, but maybe also, if you dont target the equipment on the ship, just targeting the ship itself, there could be a random chance something like a \"strikes perfectly wrecking for. . .  shot that it does damage a module along with it, and if it does, it shoots it straight down to its first level of damage, and that module is un useable, however, if you are aiming for a certain rack high slot, mid slot, or low slots when you miss it doesnt damage the ship eitherjust an afterthought"
"i agree with the idea presented by soldier of fortune here but would make it substantially harder to train for than he presented. something along the lines of:targeting vsurgical strike iv or vtrajectory analysis iv or v"
"ah, thank you, i knew there were other targeting skills, just wasnt sure which onesand thank you for agreeing with me, but, im not sure about lvl 5 skills, those take a while to train for, i would say those skills at lvl 4 would be sufficientagain, thanks for agreeing with meif this was implemented, it would add another complete tactical tool to the game, and would give smaller ships a better role in this world, when each side starts taking up mass battleship fleets like the caldari a few days ago, they built a fleet up of about 20 battleships"
"sorry, but i can't say i like this idea"
"i could see ~some~ extra training to accomplish this. but i don't think it requires absolute mastery of targeting skills to achieve. unless all level v's means you can shoot the capacitor battery cables off a shuttle in mid-warp from 200km away.i think part of the idea is to achieve some of the cinematic action we see in sci fi shows. targeting certain systems to incapacitate the ship without destroying it completely.i just don't think the tactical officers on star trek or bsg have all trained so thoroughly into targeting, just to make a few extra shots. i think they have extra sensitive sensor arrays that allow for it... kinda like the tactical sensor i suggested already!"
"as much as it seems like a good idea i loved homeworld 2, and using bombers to that effect was fun, there are a couple flaws. the main one- lag generated by only a couple hundred ships shooting one pos lags a system as is with nothing else to speak of going on in system is a problem as it is, having the servers have to calculate even more divvied damage would kill performance and nodes.it would be awesome if it could work in this game, but i fear that current mechanics and software wouldn't be able to support it."
"i think it would be an interesting change to the game mechanics if super-capitals and possibly capitals couldn't be tackled in the same way as current ships. instead, warp disruptors and webs would increase the time they needed to align for warp, or to spool up jump drives. during this time, attackers could target specific sub-systems such as propulsion, navigation targeting, weapons, and engineering self-repair.the idea of a freespace/homeworld-style system for capital ships appeals to me, because it would be interesting to see capital ships as vessels that are tough to destroy outright, but possible to incapacitate. there is even room for currently under-used ship classes such as assault frigates and destroyers to be efficient at damaging capital sub-systems."
"while we're all referencing other games... so there was this game called empire at war and the absolute greatest damned tricks to pull were either sending in a load of bombers after station shield generators or using hero unit red wing with the \"lucky shot\" capability that instantly took out a sub-system.on to more serious things...to address the issue of what to do with the 100k of damage that hit's skizzlefist's titan while people are aiming for the subsystem, do the damage calcs twice. once for the sub-system, once for the titan. subtract the damage that managed to land on the sub-system from the larger number. this way a big fleet alpha from bs's won't be doing 2k to the subsystem instead of the 100k against the titan. like i proposed earlier, hits to the subsystem hp should affect the total hp, so the total hit to the titan would end up being 100k still, with the difference being that a sniper bs fleet would have managed to slide a great deal of it through the keyhole, surgically dismantling a capital ship.just make the sensor res small enough and you won't have too many issues with snipers taking out subsystems. i wouldn't mind if they did, but more in a \"skizzlefist's jump drive is primary\" alpha-fleet titan-no-go-home manner. in other words, the ability to put damage onto subsystems accurately is for small ships, but can also be done by smaller ships, thus preserving balance in huge carrier fleet vs bs fleet battles. hell, even cruisers would have anti-cap value at that point. bombers maybe even more so. 250 dps like a scalpel is a pretty focused design.skizzlefist's smartbombs got the hic, but not before skizzlefists jump drive was incap'd. skizzlefist loses supercap.i'd like to see some more entropy from the bottom up. we don't need another supercap or cap killer, just to increase the options for small ships."
"damn you skizzlefist!!!that's what i was kinda thinking would be a good focus/reason for sub-system targeting. to allow the non-bs/capital ships a reason to join the fleet. when the final killmail against that titan reads \"assault frigate\" then i think people will see what we mean."
"i agree with you 100%, but i just don't think that the current game engine can handle such a load. if it could be implemented, that would be amazing."
"this is the excuse for every other popular idea that has risen on assembly hall / features and ideas not being implemented.maybe ccp should quit wasting so much time and money making patches that suck for weeks after deployment, and fix their game up right and proper first.database errors, graphics engine malfunctions... get it right for once. otherwise... this is a 5 year long beta test!"
"as the jammers are the only ew mod that is chance based and racial i think it would be good to remove the racials and add racial scripts to be used on the multies. the strength on the multies stays like it is and the script gives it the strength of the racials. this way the fitting problems of choice which racials to fit is solved and can be adjusted on the spot, like the scripts on the sensor boosters and the scripts on the dampers."
"err. how about no? racial jammers are a tradeoff. more power, in return for maybe getting your selection wrong. to make them scriptable, would be basically the same as upping the power on multispecs to be the same as racials. as an ewar pilot, i don't think that's necessary."
"ok then make the multies as strong as the racials now, as jamming in the only form of ew that is chance and racial based. make the others forms of ew racial or chance based also or take the racials away"
"i fly ecm, and i hate bringing the wrong jammers. however, this essentially gives everyone the right jammer all the time, every time and since currently ecm is dominating electronic warfare this just makes it better.this could work, but must have a very long recalibration time like 60s or greater so it's not an instant \"ha i'm always ready for anything falcons are even better ha ha\". an rp reason against this is that the sensors on different race's ships are based on completely different technology and would require different mechanical parts and physical hardware, thus the different jammers.personally, i think the rp reasons outweigh the convenience provided by your suggestion. the versatility of the multies comes at a cost of diminished effectiveness. and the reason ecm is chance based is that when it does hit, it is 100% effective at taking a ship out of battle minus fof and sb, rather than reducing it's effective abilities.in short, ecm is currently the best form of ewar and would be terribly overpowered with this. no support until rsd gets buffed or something.oh, and always use racials."
"ok, i see what prompted your argument. the difference between ecm and other ewar and the reasoning behind the balance:rsd, target painting, tracking disruption:100% chance of hitting the targetxxx% of effectively removing the target from battleecm:xxx% chance of hitting the target100% of effectively removing the target from battle"
"correct but this mod is instead of a tank and then its a chance based tank and ontop its racial, so you need to fill all or as many as with , what you think you going to fight, racials to have a chance on a successful jamm. if you fail you will lose your ship most of the time.all other ew has 100% chance of success and will add to the total damage that is done indirectly or will lead to causing less damage. but all will have a tank and only need to use 1 or 2 ew mods to be successful in their role.the script idea wont make it to powerful as you cant change scripts when you cloaked and if, what is mentioned before a calibration time before you can use this mod will be added the only advantage is that you can change your racial setup without docking."
"still, problem is there is no rp explanation for ecm 'scripts'. different jammers are physically different from each other both mechanically and at a hardware level. because of the extreme effectiveness and completeness of ecm there needs to be more limiting factors in it's chance of working. in fact, chance is really the only factor. either you did or did not fit the best module suited for the job."
"although this would be a good idea, if it wouldn't make the jammers totally op. it'd be the same, but being right all the time about your jammee is too muchout of balance."
"yes it is. currently, if you want to be prepared for everything, you must fit either multispecs, resulting in lower range and strength, or one of each racial, resulting in less meaningful trials. that's why racials are in place - otherwise it would be [edit: surprise sex]. i fly ecm, this would make me god in a griffin. not fair at all."
"having the right module fitted stays the same only you dont need to dock to change it.i dont know how old you are as i played when the jammers were not chance based, you had the strength and they added up then  total jamm strength vs ship sensor strength , the only thing was to fit the right racials. the basic idea of jamm instead of tank, little damage output  scorp vs the other races tier 1 bs's  vs good jamming as chance based did not existthis base idea does not add up any more as its old concept and after the invention of sensor script and damper scripts  range and locktimes  this old technology is due for an overhaul and racial script should be invented"
"speaking as a falcon pilot, this really would be op. a basic limit on my effectiveness is having to balance my loadout. being able to weild 5-6 racials would be completely imbalanced."
"fix ecmecm is too powerful for 1 race. each race should be able to have their own racial bonus and caldari get bonus to their race and multispec.so amarr can use one type of racial ecm but get no bonus to others etc. as it currently stands, ecm is like having 9000 tracting disrupters and 9000 sensor dampners on you.also i would say ecm scripts, 1 script for power and 1 for jamming time. so scripts that jam you for 20 seconds have low power but scrits that simply break locks like ecm burst do have higher power."
"no-one will ever use the jamming time script except perhaps against solo targets would are doomed anyway.also, only someone who's never flow a jamming ship could say something as ill-informed and incorrect as \"ecm is like having 9000 tracting disrupters and 9000 sensor dampners on you.\" that's just utter nonsense.edit: i have made an ew balance proposal"
"then i see more in a short range more strength or longer range less strength scripts for the multies, so that you can use more powerful multie jammers on closer range, so the risk also goes up as range does not save you as it does now when a cycle fails."
"it's fine as-is, and this change would eliminate one of the balancing factors to jam setups. /not signed."
"horrible idea"
"**i searched back a month worth of threads in here to try and find this, and if i re-post an issue, i apologize.**minmatar large artillery and battleships need a buff in the sniping department. compared to similarly fit ships from other races, artillery battleships pale in just about every single category.minmatar large artillery:all weapons in have their pros/cons:1 beam lasers: pro- never need to reload, amazing tracking. cons- use lots of cap, horrible falloff, em/therm only damage2 railguns: pro- long range, high capacity, fast rate of fire. cons- bad tracking, low damage, low volley damage, exp/kin only damage3 artillery: pro: high volley damage, no cap, high falloff. cons- horrible capacity, horrible tracking, horrible rate of fire, horrible dps, horrible rangehowever, as a \"sniper\" gun, the only attractive qualities are the high volley damage and no cap usage on the artillery. in laggy fleet situations, having a whole 10 rounds of ammo per gun on 1400mm autocannons is pretty ridiculous when you have to wait 20 minutes to reload. the tracking on artillery wouldn't be too much of an issue, either, if it had the range to match it. having 425mm railguns outperform 1400mm artillery in both categoriesis pretty bad.what i would like seen done would be an increase in the base damage modifier, as well as a balance to artillery range and tracking to fit somewhere between beam lasers and railguns. also, doubling their capacity would be amazing. their high volley/low rate of fire attribute is nice and is unique to artillery, but the other stats need a boost.minmatar battleshipstyphoon: for a tier 1 battleship, the typhoon can spit out ridiculous amounts of damage, and still be able to have a decent tank. it has the same mids/lows as the armor tanking megathrons and apocalypse, and 8 weapon slots which no other tier 1 battleship has. besides it's inability to easily fit large artillery, which i believe is intentional and don't think needs to be changed, it is an amazing ship.tempest: the designer of this ship took the \"jack of all trades\" tradition a bit too far. it has a sick dual projectile turret bonus, and is basically an older rupture/hurricane in battleship form. however, it decided to try and become some sort of tanking nightmare as well. coupled with the problems with artillery discussed above, the tempest has the worst range, worst dps, worst tracking, and worst tank of all sniper battleships, which is horrible for fleet fighting. it's a slingshot made of paper, while the megathron, rokh, and apocalypse outshine it in every category.maelstrom: this ship could be a mean machine. with autocannons and a good shield setup, this thing will laugh as it melts ships. at minmatar battleship 5, it out damages a similarly-fit tempest by only 6.6%, which i guess is made up for by its tank. however, even with its abilities to fit on 8 tech 2 1400mm artillery with advanced weapon upgrades 5, it still gets overshadowed in fleet combat by the \"usual suspects\" when it comes to sniping. the increase in price and training to barely outperform a tempest is not worth the cost.so, for fleet setups, none of the minmatar are very satisfactory. module scripting and large artillery woes have doomed these ships for fleet combat. overall, a big boost to the tempest would make it a good sniper if artillery was also tweaked as far as a fleet ship is concerned. the typhoon has it's niche, and so does the maelstrom as far as i'm concerned, but the maelstrom might also need a little revision to mass in order to make it shine more in its role and fit inline with other minmatar ships.if you disagree, please say so and why. i understand that ccp wants to keep ships balanced in both pvp and pve environments, and i only have really covered one aspect. after seeing the apocalypse range change in february, i'd like to see something similar to a minmatar battleship."
"i support myself. imagine that."
"you missed this thread:"
"whoops, so i have. is it still acceptable that my thread covers minmatar battleships and all large artillery? the issues are in tandem."
"i'll support this :"
"here's a radical idea: why not instead boost the specifically made-for ships that have a sole class just for mining?iow: why create new ships to make useless barges even more obsolete when you could instead boost the lower barges?i actually do like your idea, but i think it is ridiculous enough right now, that battleships can out-mine small barges, no need for even more non-mining ships."
"i agree that barges should be upgraded before we start adding new ships to replace them.if you don't want to risk taking your rigged hulk into 0.0 space, no one will blame you. but you could definately take your covetor instead, rather than redesign a cruiser to take its place.you mean how industrials are t1's, and blockade runners are t2's of the same hull? kinda like how barges are t1's, and exhumers are t2's?cruisers are for combat. if you are worried about combat, then don't go mining in 0.0 alone. take along a few friends... since \"eve is a multiplayer game\"."
"the only useless barge is the procurer, all other ones are utilized often. and even though you can mine more with a battleship, than a retriever, the retriever can be bought, insured, and fit for under 10 mil... adding a t2 mining cruiser would make low sec mining ops more enticing, as a cruiser is much more survivable than a mining barge or exhumer. there is so much ore in low sec and 0.0 just waiting to be mined, but the risk factor is too great for most people, so this might be incentive to push people out of empire..."
"more people to kill in 0.0 i approve"
"there has been quite a bit of discussion about bars/clubs in ambulation and the fact that players may be able to own them. if, in fact, players can own bars i wanted to bring forth the idea of the owner of the bar being able to stream a real song into the game to be broadcasted throughout the establishment. this would add some flavor to the scene as well as allow the owner to add some of his own taste, after all if he pays good isk to maintain a bar shouldn't he be allowed some sort of freedom for customization? of course there would be problems with explicit songs, so perhaps the guests at the bar could 'vote down' a song that came on so that the bartender doesn't blare 'baby got back' all night anyway thats just the cool little thought i had, obviously there will be a lot of potential problems with this but if this becomes popular enough i'm sure kinks could be worked out."
"the major \"kink\" i would see if the copyright issues for ccp. so unless ccp find someway around that i can't support even if i would like to see it."
"please make bpcs have a different icon then bpos. a simple transparency that puts a mark in the corner of bpc icons would make my life much easier. after accidently grouping together 1000+ mixed bpos and bpcs, i thought i would die before trying to sort them all out."
"yes please make them different green  copy  and blue  original or anything so you can see the difference"
"yes please ! is it too hard to put a \"c\" in a corner kinda of like how you mark bp's for tech 2."
"i would love this. but it's not possible, according to lingorm."
"not without much work, true.but if their database can't compete with todays requirements, it's time to redesign it.the current issue can't remain that way forever, it's ridiculous."
"and when they change the database, this is one thing i'd love to see fixed. but until they do, we get to suffer through having to show info every time."
"this has been explained hundred of times before.if it's that much of a problem, use the science and industry interface, it has the the copy / original filter built right in."
"i often have this issue and end up turning off the module i intended to turn off. i also like the suggestion of a cycle indicator for modules."
"/+1"
"full support."
"telling people to get learning skills out of the way during the trial so they are 'ready to play the game' when the trial ends is pretty funny. considering, you know, they'll be training skills the entire time they are playing the game. also considering that, having only trained learning skills, they actually won't be ready to play the game, if we accept the belief that noobs start with too few skills to do anything.anyone dumb enough to train learning skills so early they don't even have enough basic skills to enjoy the lower levels of the game deserves it. i'm not sure if this is even possible to do anymore with the noob sp boost, don't they start a stones throw from t2 frigates these days? assuming they combat spec ofc.anyone so impatient that they are unwilling to wait a month for an entire set of skills to finish training are going to be very disappointed when they find there are single l5s that take a month or more."
"/+1"
"yes you should be able do disable this, especially since i would hope that it would enable you to disable the dev/gm spam that occurs sometimes using the same msg window. i really hate it when they spam things multiple times, like when the pvp tourney is about to be broadcast, or some such. seriously it was already posted on the forums, and the login news screen, if i cared i got the info already, if i didnt your just annoying me. even worse one of these stupid pop dialogs informing me that the \"live dev blog\" was about to begin, actually caused my ship to pop. since it had to be acknowledgedclicked before any other ui commands could be entered."
"i whole-heartedly agree this should be a feature. when a split second can make the difference between a smoking ship and a floating pod, these pop-ups can be a killer. yes, voice of experience there.unfortunately, you will never get them to do it. i have discussed this very item with a gm live, and his response was: \"the time warning screens are a very useful tool in our fight against macros. they are unlikely to change any time soon.\" typical ccp bull.yes we need the ablity to turn them off; but good luck on getting ccp to do it.cheers."
"modal windows are nasty."
"i understand your point, but it does seem good against macros. sorry, but i'm split."
"i hadnt thought about it being good against macros, but i would think that if a gm/dev targetted an individual with such a pop up window, then it should bypass the off toggleor it could be set up that way. for just mass general information spammage though we should be able to turn it off."
"while asteroid belts were removed from jita over a year ago, agents still remain. jita contains 7 level 1 agents, 7 level 2's, and 3 level 3's. no one with the faintest spark of intelligence is using them, and anyone who is should be kicked in the junk. it's plenty clear by now what jita is used for, so kill the agents. same goes for any neighboring systems that would bleed over. please."
"contracting damaged goods should have been an option from the beginning of the contract system, and not only for this reason."
"agreed."
"signed.it'd also be nice to consider contraband contracting in 0.0."
"nevermind, use the dev finder under forums. i'm dumb and didn't know about this tool."
"definately would be a good thing, especially if the issue in question is one that could be resolved with a quick \"yes/no/already answered in topic link\" answer"
"do you realise that intentionally devs dont post here in the assembly hall? this is the players area, so they strive to leave it to the players to \"control\"' exception being to the posting of the meeting notes of the csm meeting in iceland. its multi-threaded interlinkage was something that only someone with board admin/mod powers could have constructed.as to your idea being put in place for other subsections of the forums, besides the assembly hall. while i think it would be nice to have, i think in the long run it would just be a self decepetion to us the player base. having 1st response post of every thread created would lead players to think they are entitled to a dev response for every post, on every subject.idea world i see this working, here on eve-o it would just become a mass cluster *****. id rather see the \"dev finder\" feature updated more frequently, 1-2hr turn around would be great. i think this coupled with an actually functioning search feature would achieve most of what your after, and be more worthwhile in the end.tl;dr = no, not worth it in the long run."
"not appropriate to the forum. and if the dev really does want to say something, op can just edit the op to link it."
"off topic.locked."
"no - it is an isk sink and not a signifigant oneit would be used to make playing dock/undock games free and dock/undock games are gay"
"it is an isk sink. and the repair bay won't go away.for one thing, it's much quicker to pay the fee and fly off than it is to wait for the reppers to work their magic.also, reppers don't work on modules or drones. so you still have to pay to get those repaired.arguing against this topic is pretty silly anyways. pilots either fit reppers, or carry them onboard. they dock long enough to swap them out, then float right outside the station and repair for free anyways. so there's no difference between allowing it just outside, and allowing it inside. the repair bay isn't getting your isk either way."
"people, seriously. stop with this \"here, here!\" nonsense. it's \"hear, hear!\". in an era before microphones it was easy for a speaker in parliament to be drowned outfor that matter, in an era with microphones speakers are still often drowned out, and as such his supporters would often yell \"hear him! hear him!\", or simply \"hear! hear!\" to call attention to his words. the short version is far more common today, of course, but it still nonetheless refers to an action, and not a location."
"they're merry and lively? well, if you say so... i always thought they were lame and annoying myself.i like the original idea though."
"this would be very nice."
"d^_^b"
"non constructive and not an issue for the csm. its assembly hall spam. lock please."
"bump"
"this issue has been brought to the csm's attention and any required action will be taken. thank you for the input!"
"i do agree that launching dd's should require them going into some variation of a dread's seige mode...indeed, i'd not even mind if a dd were made even more powerful if there was that requirement!"
"they already have their 'can't warp' thing, right? besides this still doesn't stop them from launching multiple and just sitting there, assuming any opposing force has been killed.make ddd like a big sb with a diminishing effect from increased radius. set medium range 40km to take the current amount of damage. anything closer is almost guaranteed to die, anything further takes less damage. 100-150km snipers should still get hurt, but once we get to 200+ only paper airplanes should be getting popped.ships shouldn't be able to dock - it will turn into station games. give them refit bonuses and jump portal anything that a pos could do really. give them a few more guns too, why not. make them just as super awesome, but in different, less game-breaking categories."
"not supported because this:i agree. local can stay as it is, although it would be nice if ccp wrote a backstory scientific article on this omnipotent system scanner that can determine pilot identity from ship signature if only for rp reasons. zis would be a fair compromise, no? just say it. i like crepes."
"[x] the ninja salvager should be aggro'd to the mission runner after the first wreck is salvaged, because the mission runner owns the wrecks, and i feel that ccp needs to change the current dynamic."
"no you are terrible ebile people"
"if mission runners ever own the wrecks, then ninja salvagers will, inevitably, own them!"
"by all means please do - that would be a change i'd be happy to be associated with.because, you see, the only 'change' is that the option to defend what you see as yours would now be present. as to the rest - that can happen any time under the current system. just take one single module from a wreck and you're flagged. the choice of aggro or not is entirely up to the salvager.i'm not worried in the least about all the 'sky is falling and they're invading my mission space' repercussions. those can exist right now at the desire of the salvager. the fact that it happens only seldom tells me that it will likely to continue to happen only seldom even if there is a change.so, yes, i think it's a fine change and am happy to stand behind my support for it and any possible repercussions from it.while you may disagree with that position, i hope that, at least, you can respect that it is honestly held, honestly stated and that i will back it up."
"with a name like that i'd love to agree with you... but i can't. i don't mind the 30 day skills, i don't even mind the 50+ day skills. it's just such a damn good feeling when you get the \"skill training completed\" on one of those monsters! personally i'd rather we bring back the old days when you needed level v in a skill to take the advanced skills which followed or to fly the advanced ships dependent upon it."
"i don't remember exactly. but when the advanced learning skills were introduced, didn't you have to close out your basic skill before you could even start the advanced ones? and somewhere down the road ccp relaxed the requirements a bit to make it easier?"
"correct"
"what about the maraudors? they were never needed for doing missions but still they implemented a ship which could both do the missions with ease! and salavge the whole lot and loot with its awesomly large cargohold.traveling becomes a pain when you need to move more than one ship around over longer distances for just that one purpose of doing exploration sites.. having a ship that does both can be awesome without being unbalanced as long as it is not made unbalanced. a ship that could do a 10/10 complex and also scan its location is not desireable bit for use in low sec and high sec i see it a a good idea.players may even want to use a covert ship over a potential new ship, because if this kind of ship should be balanced, it wouldn't be as effecient as the covert ofc."
"sounds interesting."
"of course, exploring with a partner who flys something ready to do a little combat on rats really helps...i explore, and use a helios. i have never minded the swapping ships...since i mostly have a wing-person with me when i scan out sites. placement of probes for optimum coverage is easy with a little practice, if one also remembers that moons can also be flown too...exploring carries risks, and has good rewards. it shouldn't be a way to make fast and easy iskies by introducing a exploration/combat ship.arithron"
"and the worst thing is that no one really wanted to destroy speed and nanos, they want the ability, if they fit for it, to counter it without nanoing themselves...such as by fixing webifiers... there needs to be a long range but much lower speed reduction webifier...instead, amongst the changes is a 50% nerf to web strength with no increase in range!stupid. very stupid. did i mention the proposal is stupid?"
"i said this in your other thread eleanor. the speed nerf is not final. they put alot of changes on the test server to see which ones worked and which ones break the game. this will be a multi-step process don't **** yourself."
"the csm are showing their worth.hopefully they'll continue to do so and ignore the babies who'd rather whine and cry than adapt to the game's changes."
"yet people keep bugging us ingame about it .i can't count the amount of convoes i have gotten, because of it. and people are always disappointed in my answer edit: and oh, very few people actually seemed to actually read the very first line of the dev-blog."
"i guess bright yellow wasn't good enough. next time they should try red or something. maybe a rainbow - that would get people's attention."
"nano nerf gets a thumb down from me."
"well they gotta make their money somehow when people quit the game from a nerdrage at the nanonerf."
"balancing shouldn't be a csm issue unless it's game-breaking, as stated already.i would like to see more csm member views on this topic."
"since i sent out an email to all council members when i posted this post, i am not happy either.so i sent another mail and created a thread over here, which will hopefully make them post."
"ship balancing issues, as lavista rightly points out, is just one of the smaller issues that takes up a lot of time for the csm.ship balancing, imo, can never be 100% perfect for all of the eve players, due to the fact that a player can have characters in any of 4 races, with secondary racial characteristics. this means that ccp gives each race exactly the same set of ships ignoring racial differences, which would result in some races getting better bonuses in some areas and others in different areas, or it tries as it has to take account of the strengths of a race and cater ships towards those.this means that straight off, before skills are taken into affect, there is a spectrum of different ships that will each suit different types of players. within each class of ship for each race, there is further possible variation depending on the skills of the character and module-fitting/use ability, rigs etc etc.essentially, there are many possible types of final ship types, depending on a character type and skills etc. it then follows that there will be major differences between the ship of a certain race class and that of a different race of the same class.this is all kept continuous in-game via the storyline, with different corps producing the types of ships for each race, each ship with its strengths and weaknesses.the problem comes when a player designs a ship they think will do well against other ships, only to find that another ship has an advantage in an area they have overlooked.essentially, the ship-balancing calls place the csm and ccp in a no-win situation. players want an uber-ship that can hold its own and defeat other ships. we don't like it when we overlook something and are made to pay the price on the battlefield...anyone watching tourney battles will quickly come to the conclusion that certain ship types are useful in certain situations; there is no one answer.it's essentially like cars in real life: each is made to do or fulfil different functions, they all look different and have different attributes. they even are made by different designers and manufacturers...the 'betterness' of one type over another depends upon how they are employed and who is using them, and the situation they are used within.i personally don't think the csm should be used as a portal for ships to be tweaked to make them better or like another ship. there is a place for it; it's called the features and ideas discussion forum.edit: i don't think balancing is needed, unless there is some major area that is not working as intended eg., speed. variety, as they say, is the spice of life.arithron"
"/signed"
"signed"
