"****sticky****"
"*supported*"
"i'd have using a remote \"buff\" module on a target set you as hostile, and be added to the kill-mail and kill-rights of anything your target activates a hostile module on. the weapon used text on kill-mails could read either the \"buff\" module used, the name of the player being buffed, or both. those in npc corps should be made unable to activate \"buff\" modules on other players.as womble states though, adding rr to the gcc would do a lot of damage to the logistics class in exchange for almost no benefit."
"i have to support this idea as well"
"supported.it's common sense: if you get involved in the fight you're not neutral anymore."
"supported."
"supported."
"needs a bit of clarification- would any sort of assistive module (remote sensor booster, eccm, etc) have the same effect? would corp mates rring each other have the same 1 minute countdown?as described, assuming corp mates are affected by the countdown, i disagree with this proposal. while neutral reps are a *****, this proposal would essentially eliminate guerrilla warfare as we know it- there would be no feasible way to fight outnumbered, and eve would become even more about who has the bigger blob.i believe the reason that this change hasn't been implemented already is because ccp wants eve to be about the tactics- you need to take precautions against neutral reppers for yourself- if you see logi ships on scan, take them into account- and if they undock from a station you're fighting on, scram/web them before they can burn away, and add a guardian kill to that engagement. also, get smart- if you're fighting the same people often enough to bother complaining about their rr, write down the names of their neutral reppers and send them as a corp mail- when you see them in local or on the battlefield, expect and prepare for them to rr.please consider what this change will do to small gang/guerrilla style warfare prior to confirming it's implementation."
"supporting dual flagging.also, this applies to salvage rights as well, correct? cause ninja salvaging is way out of wack with regard to risk/reward."
"i'd prefer if all space was made 0.0, concord was deposed and tossed out on it's ear, and let the corporations defend themselves. then if someone tried to nick your stuffs you could protect your own rights ;)but in lieu of that, more flagging to allow people to fight over stuffs floating in space sounds good too."
"yeah... the wreck should not be owned only by the pod sitting there unable to do anything about looting... it should be owned by both the slain and the slayer.grabbing from it should = a blinking status for both sides of the fight.a 'targeted' wreck should not be salvageable by neutrals, either (just like a targeted ship cannot be boarded). this will prevent interlopers from snapping up your target, but not completely disable ninja-salvaging."
"supported!"
"supporting because that patriwhat(?) is such a huge ***got and deserves to lose an internet arguement."
"/signed"
"so, new csm, willing to take this back to ccp? unlike the 2nd csm i would hope you would be interested in what the players want you to do instead of just what you want to do."
"*thumbsup*"
"omg agreeing with cva"
"3d csm is the charm? so far this issue and csm have been mutually exclusive, i wonder why? because no one wants to cause waves once they get a free trip to iceland, by bringing this up again in a proper and thorough format, rather than \"funky pos idea?"
"support"
"i am disappointed in the lack of imagination and vision of the people who support the modular pos, because a modular pos is what they only seem to care about. having been with eve for three years, its flaws and potentials seem to stand out with time, yet the notion of refining and further development of the game mechanics seem to be trivial to say the least.i fear people are stupefied by a single idea of limited importance to the evolvement/development of the game mechanics. as if getting rid of a big annoyance with pos' is all that is to be of interest.so now i guess ccp will perhaps make pos' modular and that will pretty much be it. the pos issue, or rather a rethinking of pos logistics and pos warfare seemed like a good opportunity to evolve things, and seeing that there are multiple interesting ideas about a other things, it feels somewhat awful to know that it has to take this long a time to get merely a few steps ahead.seems to me that itemization, bugfixing and features are more important that evolving the gameplay and that saddens me.i hope csm delegates have some balls to get into the mood of thinking of evolving the game mechanics in a more visonary and imaginary way so that they can at least make a semi qualified judgement when people come up with ideas."
"just curious ... did this ever get reviewed or supported by csm/ccp?my support for this is on either reducing or removing the huge drawbacks on the hybrids ... makes the t2 ammo a pretty thing to sit on the showcase but never really use it."
"supported 100%"
"supported."
"if drones were ignored completely by gate guns, i can foresee drone boats being a little too overpowered. that being said, maybe some tweaking of the gate guns is needed vs drones in order to ensure that they don't die instantly to the guns. if that is too much work, maybe a new module that boosts drone hp or something? supported nonetheless because this is still a problem, even if the proposed solution might need some modifications."
"yes, is completely unfair for droneboats and limits even more what ships can engage at gates or stations in low sec without war decs. if the sentrys can't kill my ship, it should leave my poor drones alone."
"in principal the guns are shooting at a \"hostile entity\" at the gate when shooting drones, in practice it is an unfair nerf on drone boats.maybe a balance can be found that keeps drones under fire but reduces damage to allow a chance to recall or rep and manage the fight.supported."
"with drone assignment, wouldn't this lead to people assigning drones to an expendable ship, which then ganks the target when the assigning ship is far away, the target is held down by a high tank hic? or to save on use, assigend to the hic itself maybe?this is soo open to abuse.not supported."
"tbh i dont see a difference why would sentrys recognize a need to shoot at drones yet npcs in missions don't change targets even though it can account for a large amount of a ships dps. would someone be sad if you couldn't run missions afk?"
"thumbs up."
"supporting"
"supported!"
"reppers being flagged was introduced for a reason.out of corp invulnerable reppers in high sec and faction wars, remember them? you want to wind the clock back to that?no support."
"yup."
"hi, did you even read the op? this has nothing to do with neutral remote reppers in hisec."
"read before posting please.i need that facepalm picture cause i can't explain in words how stupid what you just said was...we're dealing about people getting gcc cause they're remote repping outlaws without gcc. explain a situation where somebody in a high sec war is going to be remote repping an outlaw from a different corp...."
"never enough enthusiasm from ccp towards mining despite the large number of players who still, despite it's lack of profitability vs level 4's in most cases and it's mind numbing tediousness, continue to mine those rocks.a specialized skill-set should provide better returns than a generalist one.besides that, much of what makes up these recommendations would make the whole thing a little more interesting, which is something mining really needs."
"supported.especially for the interbus storyline agent, currently its doable for people to repair standings with gallinnie by using soe agents, the reverse used to be, and should be, true too."
"supported"
"not supported.i do agree that if someone makes a serious mess of a remap they are stuck for a long time. maybe ccp allowing a petition to change the remap within 24 hours of it taking place could be allowed with a solid and reasonable explanation from the player. but introducing this as a \"bought\" item is definitely not the solution."
"big support.drones are the only primary weapons system that can be destroyed ... let me shoot your missile launchers off your ship and see how you like it. seriously, i would like to see some attention, improvements to the gallente drone ships. a fed navy dominix? some decent drone mods, implants? fresh coat of drone paint ... anything please!"
"i say no because there are hundreds of things more important that should be higher on the list of priorities. eye candy is the last thing we need more of, even if it's a way for us to make our own."
"while i agree that the ui needs to be brough upto date i dont support the introduction of custom add-ons, its the wrong way to go. being a 'paranoid idiot' has kept by computer systems and passwords safe from keyloggers and viruses for 20 years.the problem is that the add-on wont come from eve-hacks.rus, and the first couple of versions will be safe as houses with a couple of bugs, then you will start to get the malicous stuff added as people start to use it more. anyone remember mybrute.com? that was initially safe, then it started injecting malicious code."
"ui addons is good idea."
"i await with bated breath the day that the developers of evemon, eft, battleclinic, eve-files, etc go rogue on us. if you're that paranoid don't install them.and if you do get scammed? welcome to eve. scamming out of game is probably not as encouraged by the developers as it is in-game, but i honestly don't see the difference."
"how about a compromise.ccp release the code as part of a \"competition\". players are invited to \"develop\" a new ui or elements thereof for submission to ccp for approval. any improvement incorporated into the ui by ccp as part of a regular patch could be rewarded with a period of free gameplay and a yacht.improvements could be limited to features which improve the appearance and functionality of the ui without giving any additinal information or automated warnings to the players.end result... ui improvement is accelerated without security issues since the client would still have to meet the compatible version check etc to ensure that the same ui is available to all, thus negating a mods arms race.maybe someone with a coding background could comment on the feasability of this?"
"i disagree with the op. no player addons to the eve client, please."
"i think that will be one of the biggest \"what if\"'s and practical problems to overcome with implementing this new system- people finding exploits within the addon programming and exploiting it. when i bring this issue up with ccp i think thats one of the major elements of this issue we need to talk about.some of the possible solutions i can think of-1. creating a system to share, rate, download addons within the eve client, and allowing the coders only work within a script environment that is restricted to only certain functions and not others. majority of the population is protected because they dont have to go to 3rd party websites, and they can see if others have had a problem with the addon before.2. in the event of an exploit being found anyways, only allowing eve accounts that have been paid for with credit card at least once to post addons to the eve services. it at least creates a paper trail and discourages most would-be-hackers due to the rl consequences of doing these things.3. all addons must be open sourcedwhats the story behind mybrute? was it the owners trying to make some black market profit or did it get hacked? i never got into it."
"it still doesnt address the ui issues of smaller segments of the population, that have their own ui needs that the rest of the population might not share. colorblind people, people with movement disability, people with poor vision, people with whatever other specific preferences or situations, 100% of them will not have what they want in the game because everybody has to share the same ui. eve right now- without player created mods- 99.99% of all the ui complaints are unresolved, and probably never will be. so maybe everyone can have an \"equal\" ui, that they will all be unhappy about. every ui change that comes in, lots of people are unhappy about.also releasing the code is far away above and beyond what i'm suggesting. i dont think ccp should release their client source code, and i really doubt they want to either."
"perhaps source code was a poor choice of words, i'm not in any way a techy.i agree with the points you make regarding vision impairment and disablities. perhaps if \"mods\" are developed in this area they can be added as a user setting.it is a contentious issue for sure, and i actually find myself agreeing with both sides. i would like to see greater ui flexibility, but wouldn't want a wow style addons library with automated warnings for everything. my general direction on it was to open up the opportuity for changes through player development while retaining ccp control of the implementation. an attempt to break the stalemate between the two opposing arguments and find a middle ground."
"fully supported.to all those conservatives and bug fearful people:1. does example of all quakes, half lifes, wow and other several hundred games with mods have no value to you? mods in these games made enormous positive effect on them and their respective game communities.2. what to so-called \"arms race\" - where is arms race really, if i'll always be able to download the same mod which makes game ui usable which used by my opponent? what you, conservatives, proposing are really to live in sticky swamp all together in fear that some of us instead can improve life of everyone else (by releasing ui mods).3. to the ones who is too lazy to imagine that they will need to download not only eve client, but also some mods: don't you see an example of blizzard, who in one of the patches embedded a bunch of most popular mods/features in their core wow client to level off the need to download additional mods? also see p.2.4. the ones who fear the bots and macroses - i'd say, nothing will change, because now they use programmaticaly unrestricted (on client side) illegal means to control the game. and in case of mods, if they will attempt to use for this purpose legal means of published mod api/framework - then, in fact, they will be more restricted in what they will be able to do. in other words, look at wow macros'es - they have many restrictions about number and type of actions player can perform with mod code.5. if you fear about client integrity and its source code - don't worry, if devs of any game have any brains, mods are implemented as external api/framework (maybe even on same programmic language as a game - it doesn't matter) executing in separate interpreter, which places numerous unavoidable restrictions to what mod can do (for example, it cannot get your password or anything like that).6. also, don't you understand, that if you think that client side mods will bring additional load on servers by transporting to them need of secure calculations, it means that now eve client is already flawned because it breaks one of fundamental principles of mmorpg to not trust the client and not use it for server-side calculations. which, obviously, is not the case (otherwise we'd all seen ibises with doomsdays in jita long time ago) - so, mods (and, in particular, ui mods) will not bring additional load on server.7. if you think that good mods/ui will make eve less hardcore, then think about the fact that it is a good and interesting gameplay which makes game hardcore and not ugly ui and not devs deficit of time and man resources.jeremey,programmer / game developer with 3 years length of service."
"i agree with a contest or some such for the players to develop the ui and let ccp add it in.the ui needs to be upgraded tremendously. if it comes in thru ccp then there is no way to use it as an exploit or hack.the ui is obviously not high on ccp's to do list so why not allow the players to do the work.make it a regular system that can be used all the time. a player develops an add on and submits it for testing and adding. ccp tests it for compatibility and security and usefulness. then they can put it on the test server for players to try and see if it would be wanted. its free help for ccp and the players get to have a more usable ui.the players get credit for the ui or add on just like other games but officially from ccp. john black's drone control window.if players would build a ui or add on for deaf, blind etc without going thru ccp then they would do so while going thru ccp as long as they know it will have a real chance of making it into the game.this also would allow ccp to control the quality of ui and add on. if it doesn't come up to their standard for the game they send it back with suggested improvements.seems to be a win/win situation. players get improvements, and ccp spends as little resources as possible to get them."
"there is no need in such bureaucratic process, which will add to ccp just more work.this problem can be solved in much more simple and elegant way - just by carefully designing mods api and executing their code in separate interpreter on client side."
"confirming i get real dollers for supporting mazz. also confirming pushing pl/goon agenda for unfair advantages.come on, think about it. i know at least a dozen people that used macros for f1-f8 before gun stacking. if client was modable people wouldn't rely on 3rd party software to give them an unfair advantage, but would instead use resources available to everyone (i.e. client modifications, can be available on eve-o for download, or, even better, through an igb interface much like firefox addons). this would actually reduce not increase the number of \"3rd party abusers\".i'm not asking for a lot, just make the client more customizable. like moving around the hud that is now always top/bottom, ability to sort watchlist by hp left/hp missing, etc. it's a scifi game, surely the computer in a superadvanced internet spaceship can handle that? also, most importantly, hotkeys. my rmb is hurting.\""
"this is the writeup i'm about to submit for some meeting. i think i worded it to avoid any misunderstandings such as there have been in this thread."
"i was a bit sceptical but after reading the replies it seems like a safe and good idea."
"i think it is a nice idea but it is too late to add something like that now.it will likely be a lot of work to develop an api for extensions and then may take a lot of time to stabilize and avoid exploits.the should just get some better ui developers that actually try to play the game or read the forums.vote against."
"i don't want to play a game where add-ons to clients define outcomes more than player skills. currently, everyone has a level playing field, and its the player that makes the difference, not what add-ons they have.no support."
"this.not supported"
"actually, i do."
"please scrap the whole wis idea. it's too grandiose an idea to implement without devoting huge amounts of resources to it. it doesn't actually yield anything for the community besides a bit of extra eye candy.instead, please fix logoffski mechanics, overview phantom-ship bugs, sound bugs and nerf minmatar."
"not, supported.ambulation is a much needed bone for us roleplayers, this is what we have requested and scratched for since launch, after 6 years, ill be damned if we don't finally get our fulfillment.in addition, it will have other neat stuff, like that table game showed at fanfest, and possibly eve poker ingame, which is cool also."
"they devoted an extra team to this, do you really believe a few unhappy players can stop wis? did you hear what they told us at the fanfaire about it last year? no way, that any force can stop wis"
"*signed*atleast make them equal to railguns."
"statements like this confound me. i can't tell if kytanos termek is intentionally trying to mislead people and spread the hysteria, or if he's genuinely implying that cruise missiles aren't every bit as good as large railguns.cruise missiles do consistently good dps, hit against the target's weakest resistance, and have an optimal range generally further than the ship's max targetting range, while having no minimal range that you have to contend with.railguns do consistently mediocre dps, hitting only kinetic and thermal resistances so they never do good dps, they require you to switch out ammunition constantly to get different ranges, and anything that gets in too close, even a cruiser, will be under the guns and completely immune from them, forcing you to rely on your drones to deal with them.so, what aspect isn't equal to railguns?"
"the damage is severely reduced if the target is not stationary, they do not hit for their full damage even against the intended class of target when it is stationary. these are common things ive heard.but what really gets my goat, is the travel time, a crippleing disadvantage, even our long range missles, arent. imagine this, a fleet fight, primary is called, your missiles take 10-20 seconds to hit after you've targeted your enemy. (lets face it, most battleships are at sniper range). it's ridiculous that the target is dead before they are even halfway, while the rokh next to you unloads it's batteries, blasting enemies apart. missles are only useful in long range in a pos or capital bash.in short: if missles do comparable damage to railguns, they are at a crippleing drawback, they, for all intents and purposes save for 2 exceptions of shooting at stations, or a capital ship. are unable to be used at long range, before the target is killed. railguns on the otherhand, can fire far away, and then their is blasters, which can fire at short range.however, blasters compensate for this, by doing alot of dps, missles on the other hand, don't have this advantage.missles are still a decent system solo, in a 1v1 fight close up, against rats, or stations, or posses, but in a fleet fight? dont bring your raven, ever."
"signed"
"ccp will never out the real hard numbers out about the mechanics that go into the missiles. the only numbers we have are glimpse of what might be close to the numbers from player's experiences.the major problem missiles is they still act like the did way back in the day when they did area of effect damage. ccp nerfed the area of effect component but left this explosive radius and velocity in the mechanics. missiles act like rocket propelled grenades that only ever seem to do damage to one person, instead of real world missiles work with shape charges. even the wwii rocket propelled grenades used had shaped charges lol.world war 1 technology will be used for missiles by inhabitants of a distant galaxy millions of years from now, that are full of our space ferrying descendants."
"supporting this, because 2000 csm votes cannot be wrong (i hope)"
"its so simple you wonder why ccp didnt think of it.oh and supported :d"
"macro use at all, of any sort, needs to be weeded out and taken apart.courier missions into lowsec are run by real players but not by many. they can be run by a simple macro available at any of a half dozen game exploit sites... some of these macros have a monthly subscription equal to or in excess of the game itself, which begs to wonder why bother use them... *shrug*dynamic methods need to be implemented that macros cannot see, with changing visual parameters (many macros focus on a visual 'snapshot' of an item like a rat or roid) that require active human input.how will this affect hotboxing sweatshop blobs? it won't... doubtful anything can... but anything that causes a bot to crash = a good thing."
"what does this button do"
"would really like to see some industrial expansion.full support for just about anything also, sure would like some note or post as to what ccp has on the drawing board for industry."
"we need this topic stickied, it's too damn valid.all factions should have identical agent ratios to prompt people to homogenize across the map."
"sounds nice. btw the mentioned new gallente agent avele lelynier in gererique (0.7) is listed ingame as a level 3 one (and not a level 4 one). still a nice boost for solitude"
"supported."
"supported"
"farrrrrrr too easy to exploit.1 - create alt account. 2 - gang unskilled alt. 3 - grind missions, alt gets standings.4 - ???5 - alt can use l4 agent within a week, primary character then doubles available missions for self.= loose."
"your post was spot-on but i take offense to the above. i chose caldari because their story (history) interested me the most. i love role-playing caldari. as such i enjoy running their missions and flying their ships. yes, i role-play :p. my point is, dont classify caldari pilots in such a narrow-minded view. as i said before, i wholeheartedly agree with the rest of your post."
"defiantly a nice idea"
"would be useful."
"good grief yes."
"ofc"
"this is why we voted, lets see ccp do something about this."
"i agree with most for what you are saying despite my limited fw experience. my one problem is alliances in fw. for example my alliance could join fw not for the whole fw type thing but for the fact it gives you 2 large groups of targets to kill with out gcc and it doesn't cost you a penny unlike a war. alliances could also join fw casually i.e. a big 0.0 entity could join the caladari faction warfare and not partake in it but just use it for some extra target practice or they could completely dominate the fw with their superior organisation and numbers.so with alliances in fw you would have to tread very lightly in order to not make a huge imbalance although it would bring more people to the joy of pvp which is of course a positive."
"agreed... fw is fubar out the box as it stands. it's utterly pointless. ping-ponging systems back and forth with no real consequences or advantages to or for anyone.fw specific lp offers would help quite a bit... new faction ships (fleet breacher, bellicose, typhoon) for example, or other items simply not available through the regular empire mission agents (equitable to those, however, with different traits). perhaps even t3 stuff.get rid of the reduced returns for higher ranks... gaining rank right now only slows you to a crawl when you're taking larger and larger complexes/missions but recieving less and less reward is pointless.many of the ideas postulated here are good; denying station services or entire stations (faction stations firing on opposing forces with sentries, etc) is one of the most logical ideas.also, a far more clear method of determining system holding status would also be a massive improvement.further reduction in fw specific lag (which is not even seen when massive 0.0 fleets go toe-to-toe) is a must.war declarations against an fw corp should, by anyone's logic, mean you're at war with the entire faction. that may deny the warring corp's access to enemy space for the duration... but that's what they should expect when declaring war against an entire empire's mercenary front. likewise a loss of standing with that faction, massive during the war itself and then a lesser lingering loss subsequently.complex rats for fw should use the new reactive ai developed for the 'sleepers', but without the freakish damage outlay. remote repping of allied forces (npc and pc), dynamic threat assessment, ect would make the complexes much more interesting and not the cakewalk they are currently.shifting of surrounding systems to lower security as nearby systems fall under opposing control would make the entire empire map a lot more fluid and dynamic... and may motivate more people to get into the fighting. likewise a raise in security as systems are held for longer periods of time (amamake shifting to 0.5+ would be hilarious). moving of empire l4 agents into newly secured systems (an overall shifting of l4 agents fluidly dependant upon in-game empire mechanics would do wonders for un-hubbing empire regions, i'm not saying 'move l4 to lowsec', just move them *around* more).like cosmos, i fear that fw has been aborted post-delivery..."
"i am completely for a deep and complex system of empire development, and competition with other nearby alliances \"empires\"."
"more drone-love in general."
"<3 sadly i dont have a free rattlesnake to bribe you with"
"we have way too many stupid people out there that think taking local away from 0.0 is a good thing. i must to put this counter proposal up.. with the current scanning system removing local is a bad idea period. i can't see a modification of the scanning system that wouldn't in one step replace a window called local to a window called scanner that cloaked ships can avoid being on. if that is how it is going to be, then save ccp some coding time and just ask them to allow cloaked ships to disappear off of local after a few seconds of cloaking witch is essentially what removing local would do.below is a list of effects removing local will have for 0.0. please support it if you agree.{isk making in 0.0} - everyone living in 0.0 has to do it when they aren't roaming...[pros] >none[cons]>need to keep scanner open and local scanned every few seconds while mining, ratting or plexing, witch can be imposable while plexing.>trying to keep track of the friendly uncloaked and new hostile uncloaked ships from scanner results then noticing the difference, while trying to make isk.>needing to leave isk making to get safe when a new ship is on scan regardless if its friendly because you can't tell the difference.>querying alliance chat or intel channels to distinguish friend or foe (fof) of the new local ship. - if that's not obvious why its a con, it is explained why its a con later{pvp in 0.0}[pros]>on the pvp side of things, yes it makes pvp more interesting, and easier for those high sp pvpers that roam 0.0 to get kills. >it benefits corps and alliances that don't have stakes in 0.0 or do not have members that live in 0.0 full time.>it will finally allow players to kill macro ratters if the window called scanner that replaces local is not capable of being live and free of the need to mash refresh every 30 seconds..[cons]>the small gang isn't going to know it's about to run into a blob while traveling so they won't leave until they have 20-30+ players in a blob.>making ships that can't warp cloaked a big no no, it removes t1 ships from small roaming gangs as well.>need to keep cloaked scouts on gates and eyes open to spot hostile when he enters the grid to get a true fof detection.>cloakers are hard enough to kill now. with no local to let you know they are in system they are going to be imposable to kill. so they will be the ship of choice for small gangs.whats left? large t1 blobs, small gangs of roaming recons and bombers, big ineffective 23/7 0.0 gate camps, lone cloaked spotters on nearly every 0.0 gate, and cloaked hostile residents that only log on and kill a ship or two before local is too hot and cloak and idle or log.{risk vrs reward imbalance} >with 100x more hostiles roaming 0.0 its riskier then wh space without local and the reward equal to lvl 4 missions in empire, so why live in 0.0 that has no local?{imbalance effects}>more industrialist opt out of 0.0 and go to low sec and the high end mineral market implodes.>more ratters and plexers opt out of 0.0 to wh space for more reward for less risk; faction mod market implode.>alliance chat or intel channels will have to replace local for fof detection, all that fof intel can be used to a alliance spies advantage. alliances opt out of 0.0 for all the difficultly of losing ships in 0.0 due to spies, many hours sitting on fail gate camps, lone soul sucking solo gate scouts, 23/7 need to have a force on hand patrolling space rather then pvping or making isk to replace ship losses, and total number of hostile cloaked residents they can't catch or kill.>for pvpers, fewer people in 0.0 equals longer roaming to find fewer people; that equals longer roams witch equal more risk of camps. pvpers opt out of 0.0 and in to wh space or low sec space.so wth, do not remove local from 0.0 noobs!!!!"
"supporting my threadhere is a query that i am interested in all those that say its a bad idea to keep local should answer.if ccp opened a new region to us and you had the opportunity to move your corp or alliance in to the region would you if..it was the only 0.0 region without local.it had no benefits to offer over any other 0.0 systems.it was near alliances hostile towards you with several easy access points.it was deep in 0.0 making trips to empire long where assembling a jump bridge network to empire was impossible."
"we in the business call this a straw man"
"/signed"
"this.not supported"
"signed"
"removing local is the dumbest thing since... ever!!!"
"on the pvp side of things..its hard enough getting a fair fight with local being visible now a days.. its going to be even harder when it isn't visible. it removes small ship pvp from the game. the small gang isn't going to know its about to run into a blob while traveling so they wont leave until they have 20-30+ players in the gang.making ships that can't warp cloaked a big no no, it removes t1 ships from roaming gangs as well.cloakers are hard enough to kill now. with no local to let you know they are in system they are going to be imposable to kill. the norm will be having long term residential hostiles that live in hostile systems that only log in to pop a single ship and logging out, with no way of catching them.whats left? small gangs of roaming recons and bombers, big ineffective 23/7 0.0 gate camps, and cloaked hostile residents with no way to kill them or defend yourself."
"under the current mechanic: no. introduce local immediate even for wh space.improve the local scanner to a constant operation rather than forced spamming of scan scan scan all day long and then i'll be willing to shut off local... but not until then."
"don't be under the assumption it wont bother your alliance. this hurts big and small alliances alike.when you aren't around killing all these people because local is gone...you are back in your alliance owned 0.0 mining, ratting or plexing with the scanner open refreshing every 10 seconds to look for probes or hostile ships right? if you find a ship on scan how do you know its hostile? do you leave the belt or plex and ask in alliance? does that alliance chat become a huge spy tool for another alliance, thus giving away your position? how many times in an hour are you going to leave a belt or plex because a new ship was spotted in local? how do you keep track of all the friendly uncloaked and spot the one hostile uncloaked?no no no...you pvp in 0.0 then you mission run and mine in empire then right?what happens to the cost of minerals like zydrine and megacyte if miners cant mine the 0.0 ores? then what happens to the price of those ships and mods you fly? can you afford to fly them to get these cool 0.0 kills because there is no local?"
"still not going far enough, but will support anyway.fear is clouding sceptics's minds in this thread. they will find a way to live without local and live well, they just don't know yet."
"now, when i'm fitting a ship, i tend to want to fit on a bunch of guns of the same type. when they're all separate, i can do this really quickly by selecting them all and just right clicking and selecting \"fit to active ship\". if they are stacked up on top of one another, though, i have to fit each one individually. this is silly. would it not be easier to, when you right click on a stack of one particular module, for you to click \"fit stack to active ship\", so the game does the repetitive clicking for you? i think that such a simple ui improvement will speed up fitting for a lot of players."
"i just got comms from the chief petty penguin. he's taken a vote and the crew support this."
"i'm not opposed to this.although any minute i expect to see a flood of \"quit being lazy\" posts.supported."
"this would be nice tbh. anything that decreases the daily amount of irritation i feel for the ui is a good thing.supported."
"something in this vein would be nice, yeah."
"support, especially since w space.hangers are a mess."
"i think it has to do with the fact that you need \"repair facilities\" to repackage stuff. i think stations with those taken down cant repack stuff either, if i remember right. anyways its a stupid mechanic that is also dumb, and annoying."
"most defiantly supportededit: to add support ^^"
"supporting this"
"of course"
"supported, it should be possible to repackage things in a pos array, and (i think) in any other multiperson hangar (including those on capital ships)."
"i think ipod is trolling you with verbose posts that go nowhere."
"my proposal is effective and in the right direction, without the need for being agressive, and easily tweakable after the implementation.it's a sandbox game, right ? developers need toys too, not just players.as for its necessity... i would argue that it's not just useful, but sorely needed.there is no need for \"advanced\" work in the initial implementation - just throw in a couple of numbers, heck, even copy verbatim my simplified example. this is precisely the sort of proposal csm should be championing, a radical new look at some of the very old things in eve that received next to no improvement over the many years they exist, a nudge in the right creative direction... especially if this hasn't already been implemented by a half-drunk dev after a pub brainstorming session.or would you say that the csm's time is better spent arguing about \"boost hp on ship x\" or \"nerf falcons more\" ?!?you can't possibly be serious with the thing you seem to be implying, can you ?it has been my unpleasant experience that in anything that ccp does that would require fine-tunning, they get most of it right (and even right in ways i wouldn't have thought of), but they stub their toe on some itsy bitsy detail and the whole concept goes to hell in a handbasket because of it, and only because of it.so, no, it is imperative that this particular reward tweaking system be implemented exactly as described above (and ideally, the balancing of modifier values be implemented as explained in even more detail in the linked thread - but any other method that's reasonably fair is good too), not in any other way.doing it any other way (but leaving missions in general in the same format they are today) would be pretty pointless.now, ccp can go wild with the balance factors and the particular amount by which they want to boost/nerf revenue levels, and many other eve players can appeal to ccp to tweak any particular set of modifiers higher or lower as much at they want to - as long as the system is in place and working as described (not in any other way), the fact that it even exists at all, that's important - the rest are just details to be adjusted later as many times as needed."
"ooops"
"any system which allows the reward from missions to be tweaked more dynamically from ccp, be it at the npc, mission, or agent level would likely get my supportthe applications for population redistribution, sec risk/reward balance, etc are obvious and agree or disagree with any individual implementation it's difficult to deny such a tool would have it's uses."
"\"multiply everything by 1\" is hardly effective. that is such a non sequitur. the game is a sandbox, the development environment is not. again, you seem to be claiming that your proposal will do something that it simply won't. that'd be like me proposing that ccp should flip through some catalogues on server hardware, and then claiming that i'm going to fix the lag problem thereby. i'm sorry, it doesn't work that way. you don't solve problems by building a tool and then declaring the problem solved. so what you're saying is that you're smarter than the dev team, that your(mostly unspecified) proposal is flawless, and that the csm should accept the received wisdom of akita t and get ccp to replace their design process with divine inspiration. of course, the actual process of balancing(read: implementing) your suggestion, they can just go hog wild and do whatever they want, but as long as your mechanic is brought in to the letter, it'll be perfect. look, i do genuinely respect your knowledge of the game. your proposals tend to be interesting, and i think your objectives are broadly the same as mine. the problem is, you overthink a problem, come up with something too narrow and weird to actually solve the bigger issue, and then let your ego get in the way of your brain in the discussion. thus, we wind up with stuff like this - a non-proposal you're viciously defending on the merits of a proposal you haven't actually made, with a bit of a superiority complex thrown in. it's tiring."
"-gah, hit reply instead of update-"
"have you read the thread linked in the second post ?sounds like you haven't. please do.it's an essential change which will enable the means to properly balance missions according to any desired criteria to be determined later - for starters, the very least, security ratings, as exemplified.without this proposal (in this exact form) and the changes that it enables, no proper balance can ever be acheived across security ratings without radically changing the way missions work, with insane amounts of developer time sunk into it, and again and again each time a rebalance would be needed.by comparison with other possible solutions (that could maybe acheive similar results but have little tweakability potential after their implementation), this is a relatively trivial software upgrade, requiring a moderate amount of developer time, adding negligible extra cpu time overhead compared to the typical cpu use during mission-running, and most importantly, easily tweakable after implementation.of course i don't really care at this point how they pick the modifier numbers as long as they do pick _some_ modifiers that are not 1.00 ; after the system is in place, there's ample time to debate what the modifiers should be according to a myriad of criteria, or just simple hand-made adjustments if all else fails.obviously, i'd really prefer they pick the auto-balance method presented in that thread i linked twice now, but any other method of balancing that they might choose (while using this exact proposed system) - even something as brutal and lacking elegance as periodically hand-adjusted multiplier values - is lightyears ahead of anything we have right now, so, for the time being, that's my one and only concern, getting the fundamentals done with a coarse initial balance, and worry about fine-tuning later."
"1) i have some serious doubt on your opinion that the database calls will have little negative effect. salvaging is already often slow not only for the time required but for the time spent by the system deciding what is salvaged.opening a wreck to check the loot is slow. again, almost certainly, because the loot generation procedure is slow. adding 1 procedure that check security status of the system and then apply a % chance of removing/adding a piece of loot depending on security standing seem a great way to slow loot/salvage generation even more;2) we will get full wrecks that when opened result empty. to explain it better, apparently the system today work this way:ship is destroyed:a) wreck is generated and system check if there will be any loot in the wreck;b) wreck is opened and loot content is generated (i think that is the procedure, as there is delay, sometime even a long delay, between opening a wreck and seein the content);your procedure:ship is destroyeda) same as above;b) same as above;c) every piece of loot is checked against a rng to see if something must be removed or added. say we have a wreck with 3 pieces of loot and a 30% chance for each to be removed: that is a 2,7% chance of the \"full\" wreck being really empty. for a wreck with only 1 piece of loot it would be a whopping 30% chance.i think you can easily imagine the reaction of people opening a full wreck to find it empty .3) it would be hell on the tag system. with a x% chance of losing the best tags people will not think \"on the average it is the same loss i will get from the other bounties\".they will see that the higher denominations tag are missing and say \"to the hell with faction missions, they already cost too much standing, now i get no reward too\" and ever less people will do faction missions."
"i have some serious doubt you understand how loot is generated. with salvage, yes, you are correct, the results are determined when you succesfully salvage it. however, loot is generated at the same moment the wreck itself is generated, not when you open the wreck to see its contents.also, nothing extra is \"checked against the rng to see if it is removed or added\", everything in the loot table is always checked against the rng to see if it is added in the first place.all this \"additional\" system does is multiply the mission-wide value from the \"multiplier table\" with the values inside the loot and salvage table. it's one single database call (which could be cached at the start of the mission, when you enter the mission area) as opposed to a truckload of database calls during an entire mission (at best, for each wreck type generated you get at least one database call, if they call up the entire loot table and cache it for that npc type - or maybe they don't cache it, and call it again for each individual wreck - or worse, maybe they call it for each possible item in each individual wreck, with no caching whatsoever, i don't and can't know for sure).so, yeah, the additional cpu/database load should be negligible.if they choose to lower the highsec multipliers below 1.00, then yes, what you say above is true, but only for highsec factional missions.lowsec multipliers however, it would be downright stupid to be below 1.00 at any time... so the polar opposite of what you just said should be true for fw missions - many more tags should drop (both guaranteed amounts and randomly additional ones)."
"pity support."
"what about people who aren't outlaws, but still aren't \"allowed\"(i.e. a -3.2 in a 0.8) to be in the system. are they now blinky?"
"sorry, when i made that post i was thinking from -5.1 sec status onwards. or is that still to harsh?"
"not supported sorry.players are free to police low sec currently and it is not particularly effective. if low-sec were more attractive to pve players then this dynamic would evolve more there and is the appropriate place for it to happen.\"safe\" hi-sec is vital to the game economy, disrupting it would cause serious issues."
"this would require scrapping the request of remote repping an outlaw not causing global criminal countdown for the repairer."
"hi-sec has concord.lowsec doesnt."
"edit: alt post is fail"
"no it wouldn't. anyone who attacks the outlaw would be flagged by the person repairing him. being vulnerable to attack from anyone anywhere would make combat as an outlaw in high-sec almost suicide anyway."
"faction navies are considerably weaker than concord anyway. high sec is just that, high sec, policed by faction navies and concord. the actions of an outlaw should have consequences.not supported."
"supported"
"supported!"
"not supported.the faction navies != concord, and the two of them serve a different purpose. you can, if my understanding of the standings system is correct, have a positive security status and still be kos to a faction navy (i very nearly am to amarr).the faction navies keep out people the local government doesn't like. concord is there to keep out people who are actual criminals and to protect the general populace who keep the economy of the cluster working."
"i kinda want to support this and yet i kinda don't. it would make suicide ganking a lot easier and that would hurt the game in a lot of ways. but it could also make things more interesting in high sec because when i am there im usually buying something and bored out of my mind so a fight against an epicly tanked pirate bs that everyone outside of rens is shooting could be fun. still though high sec needs to have some limitations because it kinda is still high sec. not saying it should be safe (and in my opinion should be a lot more dangerous because we aren't playing hello kitty here) but if your an infamous murderer.... maybe there can be some limitations on it though like the faction navys and or concord if you wanna get them involved will arrive in set amount of time if you stay in one place for too long.another idea is to make another channel so that you can report outlaws to the militia who can in turn get a fleet to chase after the person. of course this could be easily abused but at least it will add a new twist to the militias.supported either way because i would like to see a change."
"you should support this then because you just said concord is for keeping out criminals and faction navies are here to keep out people the government don't like. right now concord keeps out criminals with gcc and also faction navies keep out outlaws..."
"correct me if i'm wrong, but - outlaw means you have a standing of -5 of lower with a particular empire faction, which is totally unrelated to your security status? at least that's what i was thinking when i wrote that."
"i can see where the op would be very usefull for poss out in null-sec however, for those with a manufacture/r&d pos in empire space, many times arrays sit offline until needed, quite often on a daily basis. increasing the online times would be unnecissarily hurtful.i do support the idea of an \"onlining queue\" for module already anchored."
"support"
"supporting"
"but the new one plays when someone creates a charecter.the old one just becomes the new intro.so everyone will see the old and new intro eventually."
"they should tell every new player this."
"now people have suggested probes, that are capable of finding cloaked targets, however perhaps these probes themselves should be tech 2 and be able to cloak themselves. they would only be capable of being detected by probes of the same type or if someone decloaks them by coming too close.i also believe (i may be wrong) that you cannot destroy probes with smartbombs etc anymore. i believe that they should be capable of being destroyed by an enemy or yourself just like warp disrupt probes (unless warp disrupt probes can no longer be destroyed)."
"talk about nerfing cloaking in one swift stroke. you would make the module, cloaking device, completely useless with this idea. no support.--isaac"
"this."
"so your basic complaint is there are no shield tanked minmatar faction ships?so you're whining because the race you chose to start with doesn't have the ships you'd like to fly.there is a simple solution, my good man.cross-train.that aside, i haven't had a single minmatar faction ship that i have had to armor tank (emphasis on the had to). i have a shield tanked dramiel (ok, shield + speed) that takes on level 2 missions including multiple cruisers with relatively little trouble.i have a shield tanked rep fleet scythe - mostly for the lulz, cause it's got severely low dps, but it will run level 2's at least as effectively as the dramiel (just slower).i am also in the prcoess of skilling for a machariel, which i will also shield tank (once i can get t2 shield equipment on it).so there do, in fact, exist minmatar faction ships that you can shield tank effectively."
"pos ore compressor - 'nuff said. refineries are crap even with awesome skills, need a way to get more out for better iskiescloud barge - something with more pulling power and a healthy cargo holdwh specific freighter - freighter that doesn't annihilate wormholes, or has some awesome plank generatorlittle rorqual - if no other ore compressor is available :)"
"a cloud barge? many ppl thought giving the tier 1 barge and exhumer that role bonus would be a good idea. i think its a good idea also. why create a new ship, when you can create a new mod and give a bonus to an existing class of ship. having tier one exhumer only good for deep core is kinda waste of the hull. better refineries would be nice.. how about a ore faction refinery with 85%? it could have higher fitting requirements and cost to the standard mods. something that would only be used in very remote locations in 0.0 and wh space.i don't know about the mini freighter.. the orca makes a good sub freighter hauling ship. i don't think anything else is needed for that.i don't think we will ever see a non cap ore compressing ship. =\"
"not supported for the following reasons:1. basic mining skills don't take long to train up for the odd mining mission.2. before you log off, you can request another mission and if it's a good one, accept it the next day, guaranteeing you at least something to do tomorrow.3. you can also set up multiple l4 agents that you can simply jumpclone between if you do get landed with a couple of bad missions in a row./ben"
"they need some 'fuzzy logic' for missions... if you turn down a mission it gets shuffled in the que and recieves a different spawn calculation for a short time so you don't end up getting it back immediately (i've had that happen more times than i care to count), or even within the next hour or two or four.if the ticker on missions builds up by denials that mission falls way down on the que for all pilots, but in so doing the rewards start to add up until a balance point is reached and people start running them again, which eventually achieves an equitable ratio of occurrance and reward.currently that is how they manage the time they anticipate missions to be completed. expand that to a more dynamic system and you'll see which missions are heavily accepted (with a slow degradation of rewards) and those that are not (with an inverse progression) until most all missions have similar acceptance levels."
"the simple solution is to run missions for multiple corporations, which is what i do.not supported."
"agree with previous poster. atleast do something!"
"jolly good."
"could actually create a diplomatic role and give fc's the power to set on the fly as it were."
"no good can come of this terrible idea."
"entrire standings system and it's implications needs looking at....until then a method of repairing bad standings would be a big help to a lot of players."
"minor nitpick.while what you say is certainly true, it's next to practically impossible to get below -5.00 base with all factions which like the caldari state. sure, you could easily get below with the amarr empire and mordu's legion due to mission-running, but it would be extremely dificult to do the same with both the ammatar mandate and the khanid kingdom since as far as i know, there are no missions that spawn ships belonging to those factions. you probably could find ships belonging to those factions in other creative ways, but i am seriously doubting you can find even a single character in the entire game with under -5.00 base standings with both ammatar and khanid.however, the argument is quite urgent for the \"pirate\" npc factions. it's downright trivial to even accidentally get below -5.00 base with all mutually-friendly pirate factions, especially the guristas-sansha-blood trio, it's almost a given for most caldari mission-runners. the angels-serpentis-thukker-syndicate combo is slightly more difficult to get locked out of.___well, anyway, for now, supported, but with a few extra observations...first, the standing system itself needs a complete overhaul. i am not only talking about the derived standings matrix, but also about how percentage changes get applied to your standings - they're not symmetrical at all, and this enables a lot of... how should i call them... peculiarities, which are not exactly helpful gameplay-wise, and don't make that much sense from a rp perspective either (ok, granted, a somewhat coherent argument can be made in defense of it for standings losses when you're high up, but then what about gains when you're really low, those certainly make next to no sense).second, while this particular idea is nice and all that, and i do hope it is also implemented alongside any other changes regarding standings, a much simpler solution would be to revisit a very, very old \"exploit fix\" that was from my viewpoint a very flawed one.what i am talking about is the \"gain standings with target factions even as a complete newbie by intentionally failing missions with their enemies\" pseudo-exploit.sure, it made sense to plug that \"creative use of a game mechanic\", as it was unfair to people who actually worked hard to get those standings. however, the particular way the exploit was \"plugged\" (namely, simply removing all derived standings gains with enemies on a failure without any discrimination) was very unfortunate.personally, i would prefer if that was \"fixed better\".a way to \"fix it better\" would be to reinstate the derived standings gains with enemies on standings losses, but only when the base enemy faction standing is negative (or below a certain negative value, like, say, -2.00), and only as long as the base standing towards the faction you just lost standings with (the one from which the derived enemy gains are calculated) is positive (or, say, above a certain positive value, like +1.00).in other words, you would have the ability to lose standings intentionally with \"friends\" in order to recover some of the negative standing with \"enemies\", but only as long as the friends remain friendly enough, and the enemies don't become too friendly.it would all but eliminate the need for the above-mentioned solution, as the issue would cease existing.but still, epic standings recovery missions are a good idea, and i hope we see them regardless of other factors."
"yay"
"supported, as long as its done in such a manner that no player entity can control access to them."
"too bad the issue was already raised, thus rendering my strong disagreement moot. i still really hate your idea on this, herschel. choices should have consequences, and some choices should be so difficult to make up for in this game that they might as well be considered unrecoverable. the guys whose friends you have genocided over the past months will not likely forgive you after you do a couple missions for their benefit. in fact, they likely will not ever."
"aye, i think there was no need for the change at all."
"supported."
"supporting this."
"supported. new system was not asked for, nor needed, and has made life more difficult. changing it back would also be easy for ccp so no huge workload for them"
"supported, being attacked by a blue because you are an outlaw because they failed to change their overview causes some 'political' discussions that do not need to happen."
"support"
"supported"
"i to would like my blinky back, it is part of the whole psychological effect of warping in one people blinky blibkny is scary."
"both wartargets and outlaws can be freely shot, make em both blinky."
"agreed."
"after thinking it over, i have decided that ya, i support this issue.even though i doubt it will be reversed"
"basically the don't spit you out within 15 or so km of the gate, they pick a random point in space and plop you there. gets rid of gate camping, and might be interesting for 0.0 warfare? this is mostly because many people complain about gate camping, a gang of three ships can stop and kill anything cruiser sized and larger, so to fix that, the gate simply spits people out into a random area of space."
"inappropriate comment deleted. edo no."
"this would destroy most of the forced interaction and opportunity to catch people at gates - and yes, i consider that a bad thing. there are balance issues with gate camping, you have to make sure it's fair for both sides, but the gate mechanic should not change. not supported."
"this is eve online not wow or hello kitty.i don't like gate camps... but i'm not a total idiot when it comes to the obvious need for them in many cases.stop whining.... and grow up."
"having ganked and been ganked on a gate, i say the current mechanics are fine. not supported."
"not supported. there's already an almost fool-proof defense against gate camps : good scouts."
"not supported.it would make lowsec riskless everywhere bar offstation from a kickout in bc's or larger.introduction of regional gates has already proved just how easy it is to heavy handedly nerf certain playstyles."
"gates create critical strategic bottlenecks. if you don't hold a gate you don't control traffic within territory. annoying gatecamps are a necessary side-effect of good game balance. and i say this as a carebear who hates gatecamps - they have significance to the game, and you can't throw them out because it causes some people to lose.sorry, no support."
"op is already the case pretty much.that buffer maybe protects newer players who are trying out different ways to play the game. they can dip their toes into low sec and take a bit of a sec hit without immeadiate game changing consequences, a bit of time to decide if that style of play is good for them.anyone that really goes down the outlaw route can be -10 in a few days and the \"buffer zone\" would be short lived anyway.not supported."
"i will be posting meeting minutes thread links here, as well as quick links to the pdf summaries.i will also be posting the links to the wiki ("
"i have a couple ideas for possible improvements. the biggest, if you're willing to take the time to do it, is to go back and get all the csm1 and csm2 minutes properly organized and posted somewhere centrally accessible. not sure how your pdfing process works, but if it's easy, consider putting the csm1 minutes through it. but find someplace, be it a jita park sticky or an evelopedia thread, and stick up a proper single-location archive, preferably with a list of issues discussed, so people don't have to dig too hard. the other option, and i know this one is unlikely to go anywhere, would be to try to get yourself forum mod powers on the assembly hall, so that you can mark the status of issues once they're on the agenda and approved/rejected/whatever. failing that, see if you can make an arrangement with the mods whereby you report posts for modification and they amend them. it'd clean up a lot of the necromancy if issues were properly marked, and make it easier for people who watch things less religiously than i to know what's going on with the topics that they care about. this likely won't happen, and for all i know it's been requested before, but if it's possible, give it a shot."
"did the idea of linking meeting minutes on the \"eve insider->csm->meeting minutes\" link to the left of the eve-o interface get dropped in favor of the wiki? i understood that there was there a csm meeting 2.3 in may, but have yet been completely unable to find any information about it. did it happen? were minutes published for it? where are they? and will the csm 3 minutes be linked to the interface mentioned above as well as the wiki, or just the wiki?"
"actually you do have a pretty good point there about the possibilities for abuse. what i think that they could do is have a 4-week \"cooldown\" period for the pirate character. if an outlaw's ship is blown up by a particular player, the player that shot the ship would need to wait 4 weeks before they could re-engage the player if they aren't already -5.0 below or criminally flagged. this could prevent such abuse."
"yes, because carebears had one of their major groups fold because of the standings role being tied into directorships, and a lark thread about outlaw aggro mechanics is bound to be something the +sec types will love."
"i guess this is going to be a very long meeting then"
"i am looking forward to it prepare webcams"
"oh boy do we feel favored!"
"yea i got some things to talk about but i dont want it to get buried in the 200 topics of this first meeting so i'll wait for round 2"
"(edit: added link)i'm still looking for an official response/update on this issue:"
"download: pdf | raw log - txtsaturday 30 may 2009present: ccp xhagen, dierdra vaal, vuk lau, mazzilliu, avalloc, erik finnegan, larkonis trassler, meissa anunthiel, zastrow j, omber zombie, issler dainze (alternate), serenity steele (alternate), ankhesentapemkah (csm2), bunyip (csm2), lavista vista (csm2), darius johnson (csm2)apologies: absent: first meeting  meet & greet, csm procedure and tools."
"1. annoucements and elections ccp xhagen announced that there now was a procedure to remove idle csm members from their seat, the final wording of which will be finished and communicated next week.ccp xhagen also announced that the iceland meeting was postponed by 1 week, to the first week of september.no objections from the csm members.dierdra vaal was asked if he wished to step down from the chairman position to which he was entitled due to having the most votes. he declined.elections followed for the other positions in the csm.omber zombie got elected vice chairman with 5 votes. the other candidates, zastrow and and vuk lau got 3 votes and 1, respectively.omber zombie put in a word of caution about the secretary job taking 5-6 hours a week.meissa anunthiel got elected secretary unanimously, being the only candidate.erik finnegan got elected vice-secretary unanimously. vuk lau had offered to step if nobody else did, but erik did.2. tools, accesses and requirementsccp xhagen informed us that we will receive our ndas to sign and send back and that our charname@csm.eveonline.com accounts were being created.some csm members requested firstname@csm for their email addresses, ccp xhagen replied that he'll see what he can do.vuk lau requested our forum subsection to be reopened. ccp xhagen spoke harshly and used foul words [sic] to get it reenabled already."
"3. organisational issuesdierdra vaal asked if there was a policy to handle issues that had already been brought up in the csm1 or 2.omber zombie replied that there it is already part of the meeting in iceland and as such they did not need to be resubmitted.serenity steele asked if there was a recorded \"csm prioritization for ccp\" of issues that have been passed?ankhesentapemkah pointed out that there is no point in raising the issue again if there's nothing new to discuss, except to get a status update at the end of a term.serenity steele mentionned that different councils might have different views on those issues and that they should be re-raised if needed.issler dainze agreed that was up to csm 3.erik finnegan agreed too, saying that new members might want to alter past issues.avalloc requested clarification on meeting protocol.dierdra vaal and vuk lau explained. [serenity steele later created a wiki document about those:"
"zastrow is one of our primary logistics guys. avalloc is rather wealthy and runs several reimbursement programs out of pocket. they know the industrial side of eve."
"actually, i started programming when i was 8, on an xt. programmed professionally since i was 19 however, so only 13 years there...and you're wrong about the focus. industry is clearly one of the things i focus on, trade also (well, i have to sell what i produce). mining i do every now and then (in 0.0 or during csm meetings :p).where you're wrong is the assumption that one need to be one thing or the other, carebear or pvper to care about a given activity. while it's generally true, it's provably false in many instances."
"i've been saying the same thing to her for a while now."
"i couldn't have made it much clearer than this really;rules:1. register your vote (or intention to vote) for me below.2. if i get into the csm proper (not as alternate), all names entered into a draw for the prizes above.3. the draw will be conducted by an independent 3rd party.4. entry closes when voting does!best wishesxavier"
"hmm i misread one of the lines as saying you would give out small prizes to people even if you didnt win. oh well"
"unsticky and locked as per request."
"can't remember if i supported it or not before, but gonna do it now.a bad change, we want the cyno to make people go omfg caps!."
"having a capital ships share the same effect as gate travelers is an awful letdown."
"oui"
"oh yes, sweet fr!ckn yes."
"want bonus!"
"not supported (from someone who's favorite ship is an af). afs are already plenty powerful for a t2 frigate hull- that one smart af pilot alone can kill most pvp fit (passive/plated) battleships solo is a clear indication of this. i'm not going to run around waving my arms and screaming \"nerf afs ongzzz\"- but honestly? they're small enough barely anything can hit them, when fit right can tank insanely well for a frigate, and put out enough dps to have a chance against active tanked ships- quit qqing because your setup sucks :)"
"supported."
"definitely supported. af's definitely need their missing 4th bonus. some af's just plain suck even compared to other af's. all af's that use rockets (like the vengeance) are gimped because rockets suck. the hawk, in addition, sucks even beyond that, doing less damage than the t1 variant, the kestrel, when using rockets or when using light missiles."
"i wholeheartedly support this."
"supported.with this in mind i think logistic's prob need a slightly better defence, to give them a hope of holding out the timer."
"i support this proposal."
"supported."
"this needs to be dealt with - supported."
"oh yes indeed. supported"
"i agree with the pitboss."
"oh god yes! supported!"
"/signed"
"agreed - a pvper puts his own ship at risk to obtain the loot that his enemy drops - it is only fair that he may take revenge if someone else exploits his hard work."
"bump"
"would love this, i really want to able to manage my money a bit more. currently i use my alt to store my money which is a bit of troublesome work."
"i can see the benefit and can't visualize a reason why it would have any negative effects."
"definitely supported. would be a boon to industrialists and market traders trying to track finances for different market sectors/activities."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"signing this.currently on a blaster ship, i keep some faction antimatter and null in the cargohold. on rail ships i keep faction antimatter and spike. javelin and void both have such horrid drawbacks that i would literally never consider using them over cn/fn antimatter.also, why not make it so that caldari hybrid ammos get a bonus to range instead of damage, since that's the caldari thing on all their hybrid boats?"
"good lord i thought i'd never see this thread resurrected from the ashes of the previous pointless csm runs.of course, i'm still all for making t2 ammo viable against faction, but it seems ccp is more interested in making it easier to create your caldari navy ammo... 23 nice shiny new agents."
"i trained t2 torps for a reason, and it wasn't for cheaper ammo."
"the original sounds like an ignorant and angry industrialist who expected a t2 ammo bpo to be free money and is upset it isn't. t2 ammo is a definite concern, but trying half of the thrust of the original poster seems to be to nerf faction ammo, which i don't support at all. no it's not. you fail at understanding the economics of eve. t2 ammo is relegated to the back shelf because it sucks ass, with it's horrendously large *stacking* penalties. t1 ammo is fine. cheap and basic. faction ammo is fine: super expensive and pretty good. t2 ammo sucks - it needs to be in between the t1 and the faction ammo in terms of cost and power. right now the price is in the right place, but the power isn't there, many of the types are utterly pointless given the huge penalties. you are completely wrong. don't even bother trying to make any sort of economic argument in this thread, it just weakens your case."
"ccp has recently seen a surge in customers and is now arguable one of the top 2 or 3 mmorpg's in na. however, along with this success comes the attention of some undesirables, and an increase in account thefts, compromises, etc.there are many ways a user can protect themselves, but in the current age we live in, its much easier to get compromised due to various software exploits where the user even in good faith might not be aware. not to mention, as users increase, the amount of for lack of a better word \"folks who simply dont know how to protect themselves\" increases as well.this leads to an increase in petitions, and an overall workload increase for ccp.a solution that wow and ff11 are using that has been successful is authenticators from vasco (www.vasco.com) these authenticators are usually less than 10.00, and provide a second layer of protection.they create one time use 6 digit passwords, that you must enter after you enter your password, and these passwords are only good for 30 seconds. i.e. you enter your log in and pass word, hit enter, it asks for your authenticator key. you press the button on your authenticator, and a key is created, and is only usable for 30 seconds before its no longer functional. you enter the key, and you are online.therefore, even if someone were to know your password, they would still not be able to access your account.the nice thing about these keys, is they can also be tied to multiple accounts, so if you are a sick freak like myself with over 4 accounts, you can rest easy knowing you are more secure.this method is a cheap way to guarantee that even the most nonsavy of users are protected, and completely optional for those who feel they are safe enough.i would love to see this implemented."
"this. or at least start with blizzard's idea of mobile authenticator for iphone, ipod touch and soon mobiles."
"i disagree, this is just another way to implement a password change scheme, if your not willing to protect your account then you should suffer the effects, at what point do people start to take responsibility for themselves? i could almost agree if it was truly optional, but these things tend to take on a life of their own and before you know it you have to buy into it or you can't play."
"i dont understand what you mean by password change scheme. this is an optional layer of security to protect your account that would be on the game client and the website. you would have to have the authenticator to change your password.obviously people are responsible for themselves, but as cyber groups get smarter and smarter, you can fall victim completely innocently. few months back there was a youtube exploit. simply watching a youtube link on a blog could infect you with a trojan. this goes beyond the customers responsibility, and starts to fall under simply falling victim to something outside your control.however, i dont understand where you get life of their own. blizzard has been using this for almost 2 years, it is still 100% optional, not required, and will stay that way. this is something new that few mmo companys have tried, and the two that have, neither have forced it on anyone. so again, i dont see how you can say it leads to forced use."
"sounds like a good idea. plus i like gadgets."
"the idea is a good one but i refuse to give my support based on the following reasons:1) ccp's staff are on ball and very fast at dealing with things from what i've heard.2) it'd delude people that they don't need to know about how to use secure passwords.3) eve's player tend to be more mature on average in age and mind.4) eve's 400,000ish players is no where near the 4 million or so for wow.5) eve's game play to become good is far different form wow.to summarise:players on eve as you well know have to play for a few months before they become somewhat decent and many years to become a \"big success\".players in wow can \"grind\" to high levels easily in a few months.what this means is that players on eve cannot create new players so easily if they have their others banned for x reason.people who decided to hack accounts are likely to be caught quickly and the other player account restored in a faction of the time.people are welcome to be devious in game and infiltrate other corporations .. which provides much more reward as it's more celebrated for example goons and bob.if a goon did this by hacking an account there would of been an uproar but this was not the case.so eve does not really need a random thing for this and also it may make selling characters much harder.cheeky."
"i am a gallente pilot, and i fly to the strengths of my ships, namely drones. i have always felt it to be an unfair disadvantage to me as a gallente pilot to lose a large part of my dps under sentry fire, whereas any other race would not.fully supported. lets see some equality here."
"the other part that gets me is, drones are a weapon system with hitpoints and although that is part of your dps they are still something that can be negated by shooting at whether by npc or players. so it would make sense for the sentries to shoot the drones just as much as a player would shoot the drones.really the issue you have is alot of the drone boat dmg can be destroyed, but thats just not related to sentries but to anything being able to shoot your dmg dealing ability."
"100% supported in this corner. lets make fair fights fair."
"are those guys not really there?"
"forgive me, i'm kind of a jove junkie, but there are actually 7 jove agents (racially);4 modifiers, 3 statics.5 are reachable in player space, 2 are unreachable.which agent were you thinking of?"
"agree, especially about needing to gain standings with pirates."
"why?also thukker tribe is in the middle of a storyline progress don't worry about them. it is good that there are some \"hard core\" factions to run missions for.and if pirate factions would get level 5 agents they would be speedran with alliance capital blobs."
"bump for a nice ideea"
"yep, i cannot see how this could be a negative thing."
"supported, but make sure it has equivalent fitting requirements to a large turret"
"supported"
"i support this."
"/signed"
"and what makes you think that add-ons determine what player can do if everything what he can is determined by eve server cluster?"
"are you against ccp' patches and their content addons too? they take long time to stabilize and introduce bunch of bugs and exploits every time too.the whole idea about ui mods is to free devs from additional unnecessary work which can be done by community for benefit of us all. let's not interpret that like we instead want to give to devs more of a work.also, if you think that eve' source code currently is so poorly engineered that it is hard to implement ui addons api on it, then it is actually an argument for doing its refactoring (along with implementing ui addons api) as soon as possible.it's an utopia: not only a small group of devs cannot do same things that large community can do, but they also do not choose their objectives freely - only by managers and gamedesigners from economic standpoint. and i think that fixing eve interface is just too costly for them, as you correctly said."
"please add to your wiki page common arguments and counterarguments on implementing ui mods in game from this thread."
"mazzilliu, also i think that wiki page should contain not only abstract \"pros and cons\" about ui mods, but also a very clever list of concrete technical solutions about their implementations (taken from this thread, for example)."
"its a slippery slope when they open up the client and i understand why they have held back. if they created a new string of editable values for the client that a client mod tool can alter.the mod tool can save modifications to a file that can be shared and imported to other players client mod tools.ccp supports the mods they deem within the elua rules and safe to use.ccp makes approved mods available on their website.they edit the elua giving support to the client mod tool being the only form of client editing of the eve interface allowed and leave it at that.then maybe, it can help to prevent unwanted grey mods that give player benefits from entering main stream.people only want to customize the ui and not re-wright the client ccp. give them some options."
"ui mods work great in other mmos, and eve could benefit just the same."
"since when has been being able to use your rmb/mouse inhumanely fast been a legitimate 'player skill' in regards to mmos? eve's focus is meant to be 'the smarter guy will win', not 'the guy who can navigate a cumbersome, nigh-unplayable ui the best wins'."
"**signed***"
"supported. would be v. handy."
"i have seen this topic a few times.. hopefully it will rise to the top one of these times and get noticed =\"
"i dont particularly want wis, but i have to say that it will probably greatly expand the playerbase, and therefore ccp's available money to spend on fixing other stuff, so i cant support this."
"i do too. not supported"
"thirded. also, by now i believe a lot of resources have gone into this already and ccp have hinted planetary landing is in (very early) development. even with the reservation that walking in stations does not use technology that will benefit more concrete future gameplay, too much has been invested in it to just scrap it at this point.edit: for typo's."
"something is stopping it. it's two years behind schedule."
"ambulation will expand the game towards the vision of ccp which is creating a living and breathing artificial universe. it's one of the things i have been looking forward too since the moment i heard about it.sure some things could be polished but it is up to you and the rest of the community to bring this up to ccp, by example with f&i, game dev and assembly hall.if you really want something changed bring up an idea that many people will like and i'm sure it gets into the game.now please stop trying to tell ccp how they should do they're corporation management.btw: i want ambulation!!!"
"good to see i'm not the only person not thrilled by ambulation (or whatever it will end up being called).adding all that functionality will not make eve an avatar-based mmo. players from 'normal games' will come, look around, realize there's nothing to do and then leave. people who should be playing eve, the game's target audience, are either already in or will be drawn in through the.. you know.. eve thing: internet spaceships. this expenditure of time and resources is nothing more than a gimmick. eve is a fish and they're coding it a nice bike.there is a ton of things to improve in eve. heck, even some extra factional warfare content would be nice (note: i don't give a crap about fw but it's a way to tie the core gameplay content to the setting). the ambulation team may be a separate entity but i'm assuming they're neither thick nor volunteers. which means ccp is paying talented people good cash to code that bike for our beloved fish.there is, naturally, a possibility that eve really will develop in the same direction as star trek online: spaceship combat and avatar-based gameplay onboard planets and stations. possible but hey, not a single game could get it right while the internet spaceships thing is what eve does right and where it's best. i wouldn't need to be a games marketing specialist to see a very risky course here.edit: ofc not a snowball's chance in hell of ambulation being abandoned now but this thread is a nice exercise to see how many people aren't really so thrilled by it. hopefully ccp will just let it die like they did with factional warfare and reanimate fw which actually has relevance to eve online."
"/signed"
"the fact that rails are a useful pvp weapon, whereas a long-range anti-bs missile (cruise) isn't, simply because of flight time. cruise simply has no role, outside niche ewar-raven style tactics, and because the defining feature of missiles is flight time, cruise is not fixable. i've got 13 mill sp in pvp missiles but none of that is wasted on cruise v.however:common and wrong."
"/signed"
"agreed. missles were overnerfed. can we please tweek that back in line a little bit?"
"missiles as a whole do not suck. there are some issues however:some t2 ammo being fail(not just a missile problem)rockets failing in every way imaginable: explosion speed, explosion velocity, damage. ham's have a bit too steep fitting, imo, (or else the ships meant to fit them don't have quite enough pg)cruise missiles could use a niche in rvr. long range fleet 'sniping' weapon with travel time is a pretty clear contradiction in terms."
"signed"
"opposed"
"fix the range, that is the main issue i had pre and post nerf. fix it, and i will be happy as a clam. i can accept the rest."
"bump"
"yup."
"agreed"
"supported."
"/signed"
"supported because risk = fun."
"supported.. even the wish list though ordion doesnt really need another agent just perhaps an increase in the quality of the existing agents. already has a l4 and 2 l3's with 2 storyline agents in system, and a pair of l2's a jump away. mostly poor quality agents, though."
"i think the entire missions system needs a grounds up rethink."
"i agree, just give us more solopwnmobiles in pvp and we'll call it a deal. no sarcasm intended. i have seen the craptacular results of amarr ships doing caldari missions but have seen how they do against sanshas in amatarr space. basically what ccp needs to do is balance all races' areas so that they can do missions on par with a raven in anyone's space that doesnt have those fkin angels!! at the same time, balance caldari ships so that we get more solo-pvp potential then we have now. give us equal footing in that arena and everyone wins. it would also shut down anyone that has a complaint, either why caldari should or shouldn't have and edge in pve. as for those caldari that enjoy pvp, myself being one, i completely hate the idea that i started out with the race with the weakest solo capability in the game. i liked the idea of missiles over cannons and lasers and had no clue that it would leave me at a disadvantage. as for any nubcake that wants to say \"cross train!!\" i say \"you cross train for a raven and stfu\". let them suck on that for a bit and realize that cross training sucks when you like the idea of missiles and shields for pvp still. even after your gunnery skills are double in sp then your missile skills. so give caldari more pvp capability outside of a group and you gain additional support for modding missions to give everyone else a sort of boost doing missions in their home area.---as for the \"problem\" with what ccp did with the additional agents, i think people are taking it wrong. basically they are seeing it as something it was not intended to be. what it was intended to do was spread out the blobs of cnrs flowing out of just a handful of stations. the reason is to reduce the crap performance you can get out of eve in such systems. the agents were meant to reduce the strain on the server and increase performance for the players using the agent in the system. nothing more. what everyone sees it as is a snub against their group. well if you do not have as many mission runners in your area right fking now then adding additional agents right fking now will mean little. it will mean little because few people will have the standings for l4s in gal,mim,amarr space right fking now. adding in extra agents that are clones of preexisting ones will spread the players out quickly. at least far quicker then adding some in gal space 20-30+jumps away for corps the pver never knew existed or did l2s for. so right now we get the pack spread out a bit. move them a few jumps away. let them get better performance for now. basically, stop the bleeding. once you stop the bleeding you can address the problem or the wound. which means that ccp can go back and reevaluate their mission system. look over the caldari solo pvp problem. then address everyone else's problem in pve when compared to caldari."
"as for fixing the mission system its really easy. first of all the problem with mission running is that there are only x number of agents with y rating which = z payout in isk and lp. this creates a group of agents no one wants to use and a handful that everyone wants to use. there really is no reason why an agent should have a rating. if they are lower on the totem pole then they should be a level below their current level. meaning a -15 l4 agent sucks spherical objects all day long. so since they are a failure at being an l4 agent, bust them down to l3. if you suck at your job, you shouldn't get to keep it, you should either get fired or busted down a notch to two until your ability matches your job. if an agent is really good at l3s then he should move up to l4s in the other guy's place. in the end the rating of agents is an internal matter that should not effect those they hire on to do their dirty work. if you are qualified to pass out level 4 missions to podpilots, then you should be qualified to pass out the same level isk as other l4 agents. the loyalty points should be the same as you are completing the same exact task as others with other agents. the task is for the npc corp whom the agent belongs to. you are not doing the mission for the l4 agent. the individual agent's standings internally with his own corp should not effect you in a negative or positive manner. dead npcs are dead npcs. basically get rid of the rating system. install additional l4 agents evenly through out eve, i mean everywhere in eve(that includes lowsec and 0.0 for those dimbulbs out there). require x npc corp standing to gain access to the agents 1 level up. from there adjust isk/lp payout by standings with the agent. then further adjust that, not by security rating but merely by the fact if you could be attacked or not by other players. 0.0 has fktons of isk floating around. lowsec,not really. empire doesn't need to have the most iskflow since it has little risk. doing missions in a \"pvp\" zone means your ship is at risk everytime you undock. this should gain you a \"hazardous area\" bonus to lp/isk payouts. rats should also be a bit tougher but also pay more isk since concord is not out there to help curb the npc's fleet. of course people hate the idea of doing l4s in pvp zones. they hate it because its easy to find a listing of l4 agents in lowsec. this means players can go camp those systems and farm the pvers. but if ccp seeded more agents in an even fashion then this will disperse the pvers as well as the pirates. what this will do is give the pvpers a bit of security through decentralization. pirates will have to hit up several systems for a chance of catching a mission runner offguard. pirates will eventually move onto other systems for a while, this gives the runner a chance to do their thing. as for the pirates, well they get 2 things. 1 is they will not be able to farm the hell of a single system. this means they won't deplete their potential targets by beating them down to the point that the runners have to stick to empire. it ensures the targets will recover after being molested. the 2nd benefit will be that additional runners will want the higher payout at the \"reduced\" risk of running missions in lowsec, this will increase the total targets available even if you have to do more then farm 1 system. as for 0.0,well not everyone has huge belts full of rats. sometimes theres more people then there are rats and not everyone mines. not everyone can expand their empire. so l4 agents in 0.0 will allow the overflow of players to make isk at a consistent rate. the pay wont be higher then lowsec but it will be better then fighting over the smallest of rats. it will also allow individuals to gain various lp store goods.l4,0.0 mission hubs will give hostiles an extra target to strike at. this will lead to more pvp. it will also reduce the strain on empire l4 systems as fewer people in 0.0 will need them."
"basically all of the above will spread out the player base. it will do so in all security levels. it will do so for all empires. it will allow players to choose the least populated systems to do missions, thus reducing demand on the server. it will also give rise to new trade hubs and smaller hubs. this means even more opportunity for traders. it will also spread out the miners helping to produce those goods. will the prices of some goods go up? maybe. even if they did the change to the mission system should more then negate the few extra isk to buy x item since you will be bagging isk based on your efforts.as opposed to some bs reason such as \"agent rating\". i know using a 0 rating l4 agent was good isk. i know when i switched to a +16 rating agent that the lp and isk skyrocketed! my comp's performance took a significant hit due to the number of players in system ,though. reduce the desire for a caldari mission running alt. destroy agent ratings. make the player's efforts relevant to the payout. seed additional agents in all security levels of space. give pvp zone missions a hazard bonus to lp/isk payout. give everyone access to mission agents so people move their mission alts to their true home systems so they can dual box out there away from the cnr blobs.might i even suggest making a pvp zone spinoff of npc corps? such as caldari navy for empire pvers and then make a more \"elite\" branch for lowsec/0.0. access is based off of the empire branch's standings. so if you can do l4s for cnavy, you can do l4s for cn-elite. however the lps would be separated. why do this? create an lp store with reduced lp/tags/isk needs to purchase goods. splitting up the safe and pvp zone missions in such a way allows ccp to do so easily. it will give those with the will to take on the risk the chance to profit in a way that their empire based counter part cannot. it also evens out the \"income\" of those that are free to mission 23/7 without risk and those that will find themselves attacked or station camped for a while. not to mention they could offer even more goods in the pvp zone branches.ok, im done for now.."
"!"
"definitely think it would help to add more good agents to other factions, but only as a temporary measure. there's a lot wrong with agents which requires a total overhaul. -any l4 agent with a negative rating will not be used, ever. (in fact this goes for basically all agents beyond l1's). it might be useful to have one such agent for people trying to raise standing but all the rest are garbage-people won't run missions for agents in high sec who keep sending you to low sec. those agents are mostly pointless. in fact, the list of agents people do run missions for is pretty low: good quality agents who send you only to high sec and in 0.5 or 0.6 system securities. agent rewards/quality need a revamp. make all high sec agents have one quality, and all low sec agents have another. low sec agents need to have something like double their current rewards to make missioning there worthwhile. also, anyone who suggests moving all l4 missions to low sec is just unintelligent. most of the high sec population will just switch to l3's instead, or quit. what you *won't* see is lots of faction fit cnr's braving low sec gate camps to run their missions. the 'move all missions to low sec!' whine is an uninformed one by pirates with out critical thinking skills or very bitter and disillusioned vets who just want to make the game less fun for a segment of the population that doesn't choose to play the way they do."
"wow, i actually agree with you on this ankh!i am hoping this is just the first step of several that ccp is taking. i am expecting that this is all that ccp is doing, however."
"lol"
"agreed with every single word of op's post.caldari got too much agents, what can we do? give them even more agents... lol. (selective missioning to next level lol).give other races more agents."
"fully supported.i have not read through this whole thread, but i think that instead of adding agents to the big four, those should be added to the smaller faction that border the big empires. the ammatars are already well on the way in this, with being what seems to be a high-end zone, with a very high percentage of q10+l4 agents.do the same with khanid, ore, thukker, mordus, to entice players to well, go forth to the systems said agents reside in."
"yes but ccp hates all other races but caldari?"
"seriously ccp you need to pay attention to this thread because it makes perfect sense."
"oh i agree with this one completely.a couple of things though (please understand this point before flaming):i have no problem with the caldari topping ever mission running stat, for the simple reason they are a corporate state.lets fact it, mission running, is structured around corporate entities, and the caldari are a corporate faction. it isn't bad that they have so many, or that they top the stats list when it comes to mission, its bad that they apparently continue to get the lions share of lovin. having said that, there does need to be balance, and this is what i think most are objecting to. it is possible to give all factions more agents keeping relative rations consistent, but making up for the actual short comings.without throwing balance off, the factions that need the most attention are the 0.0, npc-pirate factions. ankhesentapemkah your list is good, but along with that needs to be agents for the smaller factions.have you tried to get to level 4 agents with a khanid faction?leandro salazar we're all cattle. ok you've made your most observant point, and you are quite right, and we are indebted to you - now go away."
"i support this.. i'd rather say remove some caldari agents to force people out of the area."
"/supported+ corporation contracts/sell/buy orders controlled by ppl with the right roles, other then the issuer.also personal wallet divisions"
"whole corp and alliance interface needs an update."
"ok, let's see how long it takes for this idea to be flamed, de-railed and finally ignored. c'mon people, this is eve!issue: un-fueled jbs.cause: corp in a master/serf alliance unable to fuel the overlords jbs (yea, yea sue us), too many ships using the jbs, etc.solutions:1) the \"toll\" jb: pay as you play. essentially the jb owner can set a mass/price and to use the jb you have to pay the isk required for your ship type.2) fuel stations: have a gsc that accepts isk rather than a pw. you pay, you're able to remove x fuel (price set by owner)3) the snack bar: gsc loaded with expendables (ammo, boosters, etc) for sale.wait, wait, this asbestos suit takes time to get into."
"its not a terrible idea. although an easy way to prevent players from using the jb too much is to \"lock\" the pos. (which is available). i think #1 would probably be the best idea of the three. #2 would be close of course. #3 is not a good idea though. keep that in outposts/stations. overall, this makes sense to add to eve, i don't see why not. we already can charge people to use outposts, why not jbs? --isaac"
"doesn't nerf jb's... just makes them rational enough to be useful... to a point.i've got no problems with it... interfacing and idea needs a bit of refinement."
"this doesn't seem unreasonable to me. it might open a new revenue stream for alliances in nullsec too, if the jb offers a shorter and/or safer route to somewhere else."
"i like this idea. this would be especially useful to us up in the napfest north, where we need to move through one another's space quickly."
"i would support this, maybe add a feature so the jump bridge can allow blues to add fuel to it. even if they are not of the same alliance."
"yes, fixy fixy please.consequences and unique rewards are a must."
"/fixed"
"fix the lag. make plexes spawn properly.no capturing plexes while cloaked.give it an impact - something meaningful about system control. (reset the zones regularly, announce a 'winner' and give them a reward if appropriate)on the backburner: ambitious expansion of fw to encompass all npc corps and let you take hi sec from the enemy"
"supported. removing local from 0.0 is a huge buff to blobs and a huge nerf to everything else. small gang pvpers who think it'll help them catch carebears ratting in 0.0 are dumb. those risk averse folks will simply run lvl4s in highsec, while your small gangs will be bum rushed by blobs 3-10x your size that you won't know are there until it's too late."
"supported."
"while i disagree with the feasibility of making isk in 0.0 on an player level, since it is so much easier and rewarding to make isk in empire with level 4's and 5's or even trading, i do think that local should stay.eve isn't \"submarines & sonar with a button every 30 seconds in space\"."
"i'm sure you can find some good arguments to put there then.ratting is already less profitable than lvl 4's in most cases."
"heh, that touches on a fair point.to get our much wanted ganks we need targets in space. that means having it worthwhile to have people use space. that means it has to be competitive with alternate sources of income and/or there has to be a need for local input of resources in 0.0.prior to the big peak in level 4 and 5 missions, the introduction of the drone regions, and the general population growth in empire to a point where mission loot yielded more resources then any mining in 0.0 could do there were plenty people in space. you always had ganks, and people had to defend if they did not want to see their spac burned. local did not negatively impact this at all, and with todays changes in scanning, black ops and all that it would be even easier to gank around regardless of local. as long as space were used ... hint: why do people adore cva even when they gank the **** out of the every day :p"
"introduce local immediate for everywhere...orgive ships active area scanners that do not require constant spamming of the scan button.more logical scanning mechanics.the ability to scan down covert ships."
"no"
"almost a full page before the first troll.. =\care to explain your response or are you restricted to two letter words?"
"no. as a member of a small, independat 0.0 corp i do not like the current local mechanism instantly broadcasting my presence in a system. local now is a trigger for blobs to form. it's an unrealistic and drastically overpowered intell tool."
"removing local is only beneficial to those that don't make isk mining, ratting or plexing in 0.0.so your living in 0.0 and you replace your ship losses from isk generated from 0.0 and...>your ok with insuring all corp members keep ship scanners open at all times running 360 max range and are willing to click refresh on it every 30 seconds.>you sure all of your corp members can quickly tell friend or foe from a list presented to them by the ship scanner as friendly ships come and go from the system your in. then report any miscellaneous ships in your fof channel.>your ok keeping 23/7 gate camps up and fully manned to catch incoming hostiles that you couldn't see or possibly predict.>your sure your corp has the ability to kill recons gangs that log in to your systems and tackle a alliance member before you know he is in system and can catch/kill him before your corp takes losses, or the hostiles warp, cloaks, and logs.>your corp can keep a spy free fof channel that will always be open and all players are willing to report there system changes in with ship type and ship name.because that is what will be required to keep a relatively safe space for your corp members."
"i don't agree. a very large % of our income comes from 0.0 rats and changing local to delayed mode would be very beneficial for us."
"this thread is against complete removal.you can't secure your space for you members if you have no idea if you even have hostile in it. delayed is just as bad as no local because it doesn't take 5 minutes for gang th travel through a system, or a cloaked ship that enters a new local to scan down and tackle a ship. so if your corp truly lives in 0.0 its a boon for pvp but a curse for isk making."
"so you keep saying. repetition doesn't make it any more true though."
"yeah, i can see you're making a fair and balanced assesment of the situation there"
"i know what your thinking and it isn't a pro.. you can't say that when hostiles enter system they will not see someone already in system so its a pro for them. the reason is because neither will the person already in the system, so it can't be called a pro because there is no advantage on either side. even if there was, the advantage would be for the hostile because he will hit refresh on his scanner in local before he even uncloaks.as for pvp i already said yes for pvp its interesting prospect for setting up drag bubbles, gate camps, and other interesting new styles of pvp. but in the process it puts the risk side right up there with wh space without the benefit of sleepers and gas clouds."
"only sov owners of system can see local in 0.0- /signed"
"remove local now, and you have no way of telling friend from foe in any given system, or even if people outside your gang is present in system for fleet sized gangs. i support the eventual removal of 0.0 local, once means of gathering intelligence can accomodate such conditions. if it was implemented without changes to scanning mechanics tonnes of problems arise, mainly surrounding needing visual confirmation of nearly everything since the on-board scanner and probes do not give any information about the item in question with regard to loyalty - a ship abandoned at a pos is indistinguishable from a ship in space, and your allies ships in space indistinguishable from enemies or neutrals. additionally, ships that can currently warp cloaked become overpowered. not supported."
"no...i think there is a reason why most of the people suggesting this don't have one of the bigger 0.0 alliance/corporations under their name while posting ..."
"yeah, the entrenched power-blocks like the intant-intel \"quick rally the blob!\" tool. down with local! power to the independants!"
"only for claimable 0.0 when there are tools to create blockades not requiring player gatecamperslike maybe anchoring a forcefield bubble around the gate, like what's in some missions(but sturdier, 1 mil hp should suffice). it allows passage based on standings/password or by just blasting it to pieces(which will alert the owners by chat message in local/constellation/alliance channel)or maybe gate sentries, like in lowsec, 2 per sov level, attacking based on sov holder standings. maybe medium pos guns, scram/web instead."
"not supported."
"no"
"i support the idea of removing local anywhere in eve...it only messes with the background story as it was introduced together with the wormholes. remember the message: \"subspace communication beacon unreachable. channel list unavailable.\" in your local in w-space? it hints that the other systems (at least in empire) do have these beacons. i could imagine that these beacons are placed around stations and gates, and keep track of players for 15 minutes. so if you are near a gate or a station, or have initiated contact with the beacon yourself (speaking in local), then you're known for the next 15 minutes. if you move away from beacon objects or cloak somewhere for more than 15 minutes you will be invisible to local chat again.[flame away, i'm fitted with 95% thermal resists :p]"
"and losec too.about time. seriously. and no new scanning/probing/alliance pos-based candy either.simply pull local...end of.next step....kiss pos shields goodbye and end the current shambles that is sov and hidey holes for zero risk."
"qft i like this idea"
"we dont need a buff to blobsnot supported."
"it'd make eve more fun :) learn to scan guys muhahahahaa"
"this is good - supported."
"nah.... this isn't even close to being lazy.there's a big difference between rational... and laziness.this is rational.not only that... prevents mishaps from mis-fitting a different cannon of the same type which breaks grouping."
"if you are fitting a ship with one of your saved fittings, doesn't that already fit items from a stack ?either way, this will still be useful for fittings that you don't have saved. supported."
"sounds reasonable. --isaac"
"this makes a ton of sense, and would help save about 30 seconds or so when fitting a new ship."
"i seem to remember a dev response to a similar request about ammo at one time in which it was said that it would likely cause a db issue, but that was before weapons groups, so maybe that issue has been resolved.if anyone can find that thread, can you link it? i cant seem to locate it."
"i sit corrected."
"oh for the love of god supported. i die a little inside every time i have to hit \"fit to active ship\" eight times in quick succession to put guns on a ship.this would be a little ui improvement that would go a long way."
"i propose that in low security space, upon ship destruction, player's pods immediately enter emergency warp to a random destination 1mil km from their current location, the same as if they had logged off. you could argue for having this happen regardless of the system's sec status, but the benefit of this change is primarily for low sec.in theory, highsec folks who are willing to risk travel into low sec are able to manage that risk by the choice of ship that they take into low sec space. perhaps they start out with shuttles/t1 frigates for quick runs through, but as they become more comfortable in low sec space and more confident in themselves they may begin to risk larger and larger ship classes in low sec. perhaps that's fueled by increased income from their adventures in low sec to afford the higher risk, or perhaps they discover that they enjoy pvp encounters and begin to seek out more of them. these are the critical \"first steps\" for new players to shift from high sec empire dwellers to low sec life, and later 0.0 life and beyond.however, that doesn't happen now. one of the biggest barriers for highsec peeps venturing into lowsec space is the risk of pod destruction and implant loss. regardless of ship cost, there is an additional isk cost of a head full of +4s/+5s which high sec people add to the \"cost\" of entering low sec space, which deters them from ever going there even in a shuttle/t1 frigate. additionally, apocrypha nerfed the skill point gains from implants after being podded (as long as you didn't stop training that skill), so pilots who would risk venturing into low sec on occasions when they had just began training a very long skill, no longer have that option and thus no longer venture into low sec.the truth is, barring smartbombs or extreme lag, being podded in low sec is nigh impossible as long as you know what you're doing, however high sec people are unwilling to venture there precisely because they do not know that. they never get the chance to learn because they are unwilling to make the first step, due to the perceived risk of losing their implants.people who live in low sec do not get podded in low sec already, this change would have very little impact on them. all this change does is remove what is perceived as a huge barrier to low sec entry from the minds of those who would be willing to venture there otherwise. it will not turn every empire dweller into a low sec commando, it will not alter the risk/reward of low sec vs lvl 4 high sec missions. some people despise pvp and nothing you can do would ever change their minds about that, nerfing lvl 4's in highsec would not drive them to low sec, it drive them away from the game. some people are on the fence, and all they see is \"nerf highsec!!!!!!!1\" threads from low sec pirates does very little to persuade them.if this change is implemented i'd like for it to be displayed prominently at the very top of the patch notes, not buried way down under thousands of other minor changes. this is so the changes reach the masses of highsec players, the majority of which do not read forums, thus do not know how to avoid getting podded in low sec already."
"as much respect as i have for you rajere, i'm going to say no to this idea. just an hour ago a pirate got killed and podded in low-sec. unfortunately, i have to say, that means the game mechanic is working fine there. i see no reason why low-sec should mean immunity to pod killing when even high-sec means your pod can be killed. and quite honestly, if pods are stopping people from coming down to low-sec, then nothing is going to bring them down here. i live in low-sec constantly as a non-pirate and its an enriching experience. although some things need tweaked down here, its overall a good area to find isk. you just have to look around. (and work with your corp)--isaac"
"terrible logic is terrible, thanks for not reading my post before commenting on it, if that's what you mean by respect then please stop respecting me and start reading threads before throwing in your irrelevant 2 cents.any pirate/low sec inhabitant who gets podded in low sec does so by choice or inaction. the fact that it happened once an hour ago is hardly \"proof\" of anything. proof is something more along the lines of:the fact that the bounty system is exploited by default and pirates use alts/corpmates to pod themselves anytime someone is silly enough to put a worthwhile bounty on their head is more proof than you'd ever need to show that unavoidable podding in low sec is not a risk to low sec inhabitants. the fact that most pirates who live exclusively in low sec run around in full high grade pirate implant sets is yet even further proof.since it is one of the largest if not the #1 deterrent preventing highsec people from going to low sec (it is the first response/#1 response to polls asking carebears why they avoid low sec), it quite clearly would result in more people coming to low sec. not all of them of course, but some would. \"if pods are stopping people from coming down to low-sec, then nothing is going to bring them down here.\" yeah the fear of losing 100-500mil isk by entering low sec, regardless of what ship you chose to enter it with, that's nothing."
"if the player is competent, this is exactly what happens under the current system. speaking for myself, i have a pod-extraction overview setting, just so i can swap to it when i'm in deep structure and get my pod out. i see no need for easy mode to be implemented on this one - this is entirely within the realm of things that player skill should be the determining factor in."
"if you are podded in low sec you are doing something wrong. there is no reason for you to lose your pod there."
"negative much? all i can see is this being overabused with people buying high-priced implants because they know they'll never get podded. even though high-sec/null-sec won't have this feature....wow....great planning. --isaac"
"posting to disagree with my assertions is one thing (you are simply wrong), posting to agree that people who know what they're doing don't get podded in low sec, and then not clicking the support box is another. if you're unwilling to make it \"easy mode\" (and by \"easy-mode\", you mean place newbs who don't know any better on an equal footing to anyone with a clue regarding pod loss), then basically you are saying you are against having more players move to low sec. you can call it \"skill\" if you want, but the people who lack said \"skill\" are never going to gain said \"skill\" because they are never going to go into low sec to learn it. this is a catch-22, and it's the reason why low sec is as barren as it is.it's called a \"barrier to entry\" for a reason, until that barrier is removed nothing you could possibly do is going to change anything. no amount of \"nerfing highsec\" is going to remove the barrier, they will simply make less isk in empire or quit playing eve. no amount of \"buffing low sec\" is going to fix the rvr that they've established in their minds due to their inexperience with avoiding pod death. the amount of isk you'd need to earn to afford losing a set of +5s on every loss is quite staggering, and low sec is never going to be buffed enough to make that a possibility. it would be one thing if i was asking to give highsec people some kind of advantage over other players, but i'm not even doing that. i'm simply asking to place them on even ground with the folks who already have that advantage.if you want to keep low sec barren and empty, fine, just say that. otherwise, support my thread."
"wow are you dense. not only did i state in the very beginning of my thread that you could have this apply everywhere (the main benefit is for low sec), but you're also clueless to boot. people who live in low sec already run around with billions in implants in low sec precisely because they know they'll never get podded. this is also true in high sec (you can avoid losing your pod in highsec for the same reason that you can avoid losing it in low sec). this change isn't going to result in carebears running around in low sec with high grade slave/crystal sets that they wouldn't use in highsec. even if it did, who cares, you can bet that the pirates who are killing them are using slave/crystals themselves. the purpose of this change is to remove the barrier which prevents carebears from being willing to set foot in low sec at all."
"point and case. you said it yourself.not supporting the easy button."
"good idea that, hersh. i'll be adding this to my overview as soon as i get home from work.as for the op, no support. low-sec, high-sec, null-sec - it doesn't really matter. the threat of being podded exists. i lost a ship during our last wardec, in high-sec, and the attacker then proceeded to try and kill my pod - i was able to escape by clicking a gate icon and spamming warp before he did much damage. the point being, any competent player should be able to escape being podded in an even fight. and if the fight is uneven, well, them's the breaks. occasionally you lose a clone. at least you're not dead permanently."
"what a silly idea. whilst we're at it let's not loose ships at all. let's get a new shiny replacement with full fittings and a air freshener every time ours gets blown up."
"pretty much this."
"step 1: align to a warp point if possible...step 2: spam warp button regardless of the situation.step 3: your warping away and you've escaped... congrats.not supporting whine thread of the day."
"edit: ya know what? not worth the time and effort. your insults just goes to show you can't carry a meaningful conversation or debate. way to go. also, clueless? ha. i have more experience with low-sec than i do high-sec. i have yet to run into anyone with: \"high-grade expensive implants\". and if they do, then they have an easy way to replace it. so thus, game mechanics working as intended.--isaac"
"quoting for truth. --isaac"
"wow, didn't realize so many players were against fixing low sec. you guys want to keep it barren and lifeless, i understand."
"low-sec needs some fixing yes, but your idea goes against eve. in eve, nothing is invincible. almost everything is destroyable but your idea suddenly makes pods immune to being destroyed, so tell me, how does that make sense?"
"maybe if you weren't so dense and bothered to think before you post... you'd see your just whining and obviously you got podded and lost your implants.i've been nearly podded myself... but i escaped each time.... all because i paid attention and evaluated my situation... everyone else can.. why can't you holier than thou mr. know it all?"
"the same basic rule of thumb that applies to ships applies to implants. don't take anything out of the station you can't afford to replace or will be upset if you lose it."
"then they need to learn the hard way. learn from doing.i think i have been podded twice. both times very early in my eve life. both times due to \"wow, what pretty lights\". holding someones hand, which is exactly what you propose, is never a good thing. people need to learn that when their ship is going down to start looking for a place to warp to. and then keep warping around until they can get safely out of system."
"i see where you are coming from but i don't think this would be the answer.people who currently live in high-sec and don't dare to go to low-sec are possibly never going to because a) they don't like pvp, b) they don't like the risk.i personally spend a lot of time in low-sec just because of the boringness of high-sec and low-sec seemed more of a challenge when i started out. granted i got killed a few times and podded once or twice but to me it was more fun than safe high-sec.the thing is even with the emergency warp people will still not enter low-sec because they are afraid of losing they're ships and not exclusively their pods (who takes above +3's in a pvp zone is beyond me anyway).some people just don't like pvp and thus they will stick in high-sec, this measure will do nothing whatsoever to improve that.also everyone who enters low-sec or 0.0 is mostly on their toes the first time around because of the paranoid stories they hear from high-sec carebears, but once they spend some time there they will notice that it's not so bad."
"wow look at all the newbs in this thread.it doesn't matter if they need to learn the hard way or not. they will never learn the hard way. that's precisely the point. standing on principle is idiotic when you're only hurting yourself by standing on principle, the carebear's aren't losing anything by avoiding low sec, only those of us who live in low sec are missing out.until this is changed, they will never go into low sec, period. there's nothing else you can do. so once again for all the newbs who can't read threads, either you support my idea, or you support low sec remaining empty and lifeless. those are your only two options, if you spent all of 2 seconds thinking about it you would realize my logic is infallible, and yours is non-existent."
"sorry mr. expert have you ever been to low-sec recently, the 40 or so people in old man star disagree with you.also i tend to roam low-sec for a little solo pvp and i can tell you if actually look around you will find loads of people, granted some systems are empty but some systems are empty in 0.0 and high sec for that."
"only a sith deals in absolutes."
"thank you empire carebear, for proving my point. what is the risk, you ask? 100-500mil, + the cost of the ship. where they would normally be able to manage their risk by choice of ship to risk, they currently believe they have no way to manage the risk to their pods, thus regardless of ship they would enter low sec with, they must factor in the cost of their implants, making venturing into low sec terrible rvr under any conditions. no amount of nerfing highsec or buffing low sec would change that equation.wrong, and highlighted yet again to prove my point about carebears mentality about their pods. it doesn't matter if they started with frigates/shuttles/newb ships, what matters is that they would start to venture into low sec.and who takes above +3s into low sec? anyone with a clue, which obviously empire newbs (including yourself) lack. if i didn't live in 0.0 and have to deal with bubbles i'd have a full highgrade slave set myself.yeah, some people. a small portion of the current empire dwellers will never be anything other than empire dwellers.for some reason you think that 100% of the current empire dwellers fall into that category, which is quite laughable. you have two possible scenarios, one of these is true:1) eve, a game infamous for two things, one being a cold, harsh, unforgiving sandbox; and two for its atrociously poor/nonexistent pve content, has somehow managed to attract the vast majority of it's players for the exact opposite reasons. somehow the vast majority of subscribers are empire dwellers who naturally hate pvp and would never leave highsec under any conditions whatsoever.2) the barrier to entry to low sec is far too high, which prevents the majority of it's highsec players from starting the natural progression players are meant to go through, from empire dwellers, mission running, foray's into low sec, development of low sec/involvement in player corporations, forays into 0.0, advancement into 0.0/involvement in player alliances, sovereign 0.0 alliance member.exactly. except your missing the part where the vast majority of these people never take the first step into low sec, thus they never learn that it's not so bad. you guys whine about easymode all you want, but until this is changed they're never going make the first step, and you can stand on principle enjoying the vast stretches of barren, lifeless low sec."
"not supported.lowsec isn't safe. it should not be safe.further, someones fate should be dependent on their actions"
"fyp"
"i like your sense of humor. damn funny thread.i vote for \"low sec remaining empty and lifeless\"."
"wow, you went from whiner to emo faster than darth vader in episode 3....thank you, obviously we are all empire dwelling carebears and have 0 experience in low-sec. we totally don't know what we're talking about even though we have kbs showing otherwise....your whole thing is that your trying to change carebear mentality. whahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha good luck with that. that's like telling bob (sorry, kenzoku) they must move to high-sec because its safe even though they prefer 0.0. people prefer high-sec, so what? your never ever going to change that mentality even if low-sec becomes 10x more profitable. why? because some people like working on their own, prefer the security, prefer the market nearby, etc. nothing is going to change and your argument is thus based on liquid ground. \"and you can stand on principle enjoying the vast stretches of barren, lifeless low sec.\" whahahahahahahahhahahahahahahahahhohohohohohohohohheheeehee\" dude, i currently live in minmatar space and that is considered the least populated region in low-sec and i think they're too many people there right now. i have yet to see any stretch of 5 or more low-sec systems that were not populated at all. is there hulks in the mining fields all the time? no, because of the piracy. but then again, i come upon fields nicely mined out. so obviously someone is out there. \"barrier is far too high\" what? what barrier? you mean, the barrier that requires players to work together in a corporation? oh noes!!!! your argument is at best, laughable. low-sec doesn't have the problems you are now stating. at least, not as much as you've blown them out of proportion. btw, just because notr can't constatly kill carebears 24/7 doesn't give you the right to outright attack people who give you a counter argument. why don't you quit making yourself look like an ass and quit while your ahead.btw, want to see populated low-sec systems? head over to domain, lived there a while and there are more carebears then you can shake a stick at. that tells me the system works. --isaac"
"nice false dichotomy. unfortunately, it's laughably inaccurate as even a casual perusal of the assembly hall will prove - there exists thread after thread of ideas to \"fix\" lowsec -- some good, some bad. failure to support a particular idea does not equate to failure to support the objective. try again.insulting the people you are supposedly trying to encourage to join you is usually considered a bad tactic. it also makes you look like an idiot.what is also quite laughable is the idea that your idea will suddenly encourage any steadfast empire dweller to suddenly find great interest in low-sec.if they want to go to low-sec, they probably already have.anytime anyone starts talking about natural progressions that are meant to happen i get a little angry. not to be offensive, but who the %$#@ are you to decide in what manner my game experience should progress. if you want to be an arrogant dipwad, go do it somewhere else."
"counter argument? where? i've yet to see a valid counter argument presented.quoted for failure and irony. supporting any low sec fix without supporting the necessary precursor (my thread) is hilarious. my single fix will do more to bring carebears into lowsec than all other ideas combined."
"i am technically a carebear but your proposal caused my first desire ever to use 'carebear' as an insult. this is contrary to everything eve stands for. low-sec even has hints in the name. low security, how's that sound? there's a ton of things wrong with lowsec (reward for the risk anyone?) but adding ridiculously artificial mechanics won't fix them.that's a big, fat no!edit: also you win the house m.d. award for your attitude to your own idea. please go die (in lowsec)."
"wow, your egotistical. obviously you can do no wrong. we should all bow down to our new \"king\" of eve because his ideas are golden. are you serious? your change will cause low-sec to become worst, not better. ok enough, you are no longer worth replying to. i gave you a counter argument and you actively ignored it. that is your problem. not mine. good day rajere. --isaac"
"quoted for failure and irony. supporting any low sec fix without supporting the necessary precursor (my thread) is hilarious. my single fix will do more to bring carebears into lowsec than all other ideas combined.the fact that you think your thread is a \"necessary precursor\" to rebalancing low-sec reinforces my initial observation that you, sir, are an now simply being arrogant and deliberately obtuse because no one else seems to recoginize the simple brilliance of your idea.why could that be, i wonder?at any rate, your reply, above, demonstrates that you are not here for reasoned discourse on the topic, but rather to berate people for not jumping on the uss failboat with you. following issac's example, therefore, i wish you good day, and good luck in your endeavour, though i think you'll find it an extremly unlikely change to get implemented."
"sounds like you're more than just technically a carebear. high sec means high security, you'll only die in wardecs, suicide ganks while afk hauling, and attacking someone who flags themselves to bait you. low security means you can lose your ship at any time but if you know what you're doing you'll never lose your pod. nullsec, or no security, means your ship+pod can always be killed due to bubbles.you say the problem with low sec is the risk vs reward, which obviously i agree with since it's kinda the foundation for my thread. please provide a fix to the rvr to low sec when the population you're trying to encourage to venture into lowsec has a built in risk of a set of +5 implants upon every ship loss? go ahead, i'll wait.oh that's right, you can't possibly do it, it's impossible. go diaf (in game), tiaexactly. and no, i'm not surprised at all. most people on this planet are idiots. it's no surprise that that applies to this (or any other) player base as well."
"this thread has the potential to be epic. anyone got any popcorn?"
"how about just using a jump clone without implants for excursions into low sec?can't see even the tiniest justification for this proposal.not supported."
"he's just sore he got podded.:)"
"i think he's just trolling now lol, we may as well stop feeding him. his idea has no redeemable merit.if someone isn't brave or bold enough to take a step into lowsec without a safety net, they don't need to be there anyway. it's not that hard. i did it back before i even had battlecruisers, when i dreamed of my shiney ferox and all its leetness"
"ok so i think most everyone agrees that the black ops battleship is in need of a role, it just doesn't do anything that really justifies its cost. (portalling is cool but difficult/rarely used and more of a gimmick, similar to clone vats) recent updates have seen a massive surge in popularity for stealth bombers. anyone flying around in 0.0 spaces knows, these things are everywhere. so here's the idea for a new black ops battleship role: a sort of sub-hunter. a new skill and new module would give black-ops battleships a decloaking-device. (we referred to it as black ops sonar, or bonar) say, a 50km radius pulse that decloaks any cloaked ships, with a 3 minute cooldown. this would give black ops bs something unique to do and also add a reasonable counter to cloaked gatecamps."
"this is the best idea i have ever, ever heard."
"supported."
"this is an awesome idea and would do a great job towards explaining why it costs more lose to a black ops bs then it does to lose an insured dread."
"yes."
"hubbahubba."
"i would definitely launch bonars"
"neat idea. i'd probably want to add \"no cloaking while the bonar is in cooldown\", but i like the overall concept."
"this idea sounds pretty good. instead of a sonar ping, activating this should go bong."
"give me a ping, vasili. one ping only, please. this is a great idea but add two modes, passive that can used while the bs is cloaked and has very short range and active where the bs has to be uncloaked and has the 50 km range. this would be hell for recon pilots trying to get through camps though."
"also how about making it so it has a timer before decloaking dependent on black ops skill level? make it so that at black ops level 4 it takes 10 seconds to charge and at level 5 it takes 5 seconds? this way it won't screw over all the covert op cloaked ships running through gatecamps, yet it still messes with all the ships without cloak bonuses."
"black ops navigation and ranging is a module which i fully support."
"this"
"my idea is that this wont affect your gate cloak just deactivate cloaking devices."
"sure, if it doesn't nerf anything to the current ships. would be yet another module i won't fit on my blackops."
"all the goons support this. its got to be bad. i would lower the radius to 40 km and have it not be able to decloak gate cloaks."
"oh lord, a goonswarm on the csm....sorry, but unless the cloaking mechanic was changed, i wouldn't support this super-mega-awesome-smartbomb-ish-module. --isaac"
"lololol he said bonargoonish fake immaturity aside, this is certainly an interesting idea, though it doesn't seem to fit all that well with the role of the black ops at present. i'd rather see a genuine role for covert operations - dropping cynojammers in surprise attacks seems the natural one, though admittedly hard to balance - than tacking on an anti-covert module to a covert ship. if the standard list of black ops buffs - fuel bay, ship stats, maybe a cocd - doesn't do the trick, then this might be the sort of thing to try. but i'd prefer to make it good at its role, if that's possible, than to give it a new one whole cloth."
"why on earth would you think using an ability they didn't have until like 10 minutes ago to shoot cynojammers is a \"natural\" role for a ship class (bos) and it's associated ship classes (sb, force recons, cov ops) that by definition are used by a subset of players (small gang pvp enthusiasts, typically involving asymmetrical fights vs larger opponents) who couldn't possibly care less about shooting cynojammers, and even if they wanted to shoot cynojammers, would chose any other ships to do so, rather than try to use the least effective ship classes ever for dealing with poses?"
"you're right, i phrased that badly. cloaks have two uses - the first, to evade combat, is rather irrelevant on a combat ship most of the time, and cloak bonuses have no real relevance on this role. the second, to dictate the terms of combat, is relevant. the utility of them is somewhat degraded by local chat, but the principle is essentially that of guerrilla warfare. strike from hiding, hit an underdefended target in an unexpected place, do disproportionate damage, and retreat. thing is, that tactic is the standard one for guerrilla warfare, but it also sees use in conventional warfare - think of it as an ambush. in a symmetrical fight in eve at present, the only target really worth ambushing is a cyno jammer. convoys are virtually nonexistent with all the buffs to jump logistics over the years, and it's not like you can drop a pos with a lightning strike - even if the hp counts allowed it, strontium doesn't. because of this, in alliance warfare \"covert attack\" = \"drop a cyno jammer before the defender can respond\" so far as i can tell. once the jammer is down, your capitals come in and you're on an equal footing, but you have to break the defence first. the standard battleship column does this, but that's not stealthy in the slightest, and as such exposes you to counterattack. on the other hand, you can(theoretically) send a few covops to wander through enemy territory, find an unoccupied system, drop a covert cyno, bring in a hundred bombers, put down a jammer in a few minutes, extract the fragile ships, and get to the whole happy-fun-dreadnought-time phase of the battle. as for actual asymmetric warfare, i think the ship sort of performs its role properly, and the proposed change isn't really a buff. if you want to make black ops work better for proper asymmetric warfare, you're going to have to put a module on it that breaks local chat somehow - let you actually have hidden forces hang around, instead of just cloaking and telling the enemy that there's 50 reds in system. yes, the bridge does a similar job at present, but that's the only way of giving them an asymmetrical warfare boost i can think of offhand, and since it's at least moderately insane it won't happen. bo already provide huge mobility for strike fleets of the right composition, both in the attack and the retreat. if you can't figure out a way to make use of that as a guerrilla, i really don't know what to give you."
"covert attacks and alliance level warfare over sovereignty do not mix. you can easily achieve a \"surprise\" attack which is far more effective than your 100 bombers on a cynojammer with a conventional fleet + titan bridge to a nearby system. or simply attack someone who's primetime is a different tz than yours. you don't see a cry for more \"covert\" attack options for sov warfare, or complaints about lack of ships which would fill the \"role\" of covert sov attacks because not only is it already achievable as described above, but because it's of very marginal benefit. \"surprise! we're taking your space!\" doesn't really amount to much when the attack is going to take a month to finish even if they don't defend, and even if you had enough forces you still can't simultaneously \"surprise!\" attack enough systems to achieve victory any faster.that leaves asymmetric warfare, which you agree they fulfill their role there. however if you wanted to boost them there, you simply need to increase their dps. there's no point in mucking about with local at all, the blackops role exists primarily because of local."
"obviously every goon within a 500 ly radius will be running to this thread to support it.i however will not. find 50k radius of such a device to be extremely excessive. stick with interceptors and drone dragging ect. cloakers already get caught and cloaking is certainly not the end all be all of warfare. i do agree that black ops need a role, but making an iwin button against cloakers is not the solution.not supported."
"considering a bops bs is likely flying with a cloaking gang of recons and bombers i think this would end up being a white elephant mod. decloaking your own gang ftl.not supported."
"got to agree there :/there's more elegant ways to deal with excessive abuse of cloaking: one could imagine having it use fuel proportional to the ship's mass for instance. still, at least it would add a role to the ship. in spite of their role in black ops gangs that still strikes me as limited."
"i'd rather a dedicated ship such as a second tech 2 dessie was brought in to do this. fragile, but lethal to covops would seem to be a fair trade off given the effectiveness of such a module."
"no. a decloaking module equipped ship would become standard at every bubble camp."
"1: stupid idea that makes black ops worse2: goonswarm spam posting= epic fail thread.not supported."
"based on my previous forum postings (e.g. never trust anyone from gs - ever), i have to decline to offer my support to this idea."
"supported"
"stumbling across this topic in the assembly hall explains a lot.would prefer that bonar is implemented on some other ship. the bo are rapidly approaching awsomeness. bonar will cause them to be nerfed in some other way.there are t1 frig hulls without a t2 variant. put bonar on that."
"think this through before dismissing it simply because i'm a goon. the range, cooldown, charge time, and whatever can all be decided later, all we're talking about in this thread is the concept of bonar.what do you have with a black ops battleship? you have an 800m isk hull which is about as effective in combat as a tech 1, 100m isk battleship, and will require more expensive fittings. for the extra three quarters of a billion isk you can slowboat faster cloaked, and use the covert portal generator. obviously this isn't worth the increased cost. what do you consider the role of a blops bs? to be the flagship of a cloaking gang? a big slow battleship that can't warp cloaked just doesn't fit in with a recon gang. it does need an entirely new role. obviously any new mod that would potentially disable a cloaking device would have serious implications. this type of mod needs to have limits. putting this type of module on a cheap disposable ship like a t2 frigate would make them ubiquitous. putting the mod on an expensive t2 battleship keeps the module rare while giving a unique role to an otherwise underpowered ship. we're talking about the broad concept here and not specific stats, so feel free to discuss other limitations such a mod should have, like what range it should have, skill req's, or cooldown time."
"putting a bonar on any ship would be a huge boost to gate camps, particularly those with bubbles. they will become standard equipment for all camps, mostly eliminating the ability of even covert and recon ships to slip through. bubble prevents warp, bonar decloaks... all over."
"in case you were wondering this is the point when i stopped reading."
"we thought about this. pringlescan suggested a firing time similar to a titan's dd, 10 seconds or whatever. and really do you honestly think a billion isk uninsurable t2 battleship is going to be standard equipment on gatecamps? god i hope so. baiting and setting traps to kill such an expensive ship would be awesome."
"yup"
"cost arguments in eve are problematic at best. the game continually generates isk and characters live forever. large corps are turning out titans on a weekly basis. the only true metric of whether or not something is useful or correctly valued is whether or not people use it. bo adoption is low but slowly growing. the ship has the correct feature set. it needs simple additions to support it's role: fuel bay, etc...bonar is a new role for a new ship."
"i wasn't, thanks though."
"ah well i use the term outlaw for somebody who's security status is under -5but nvm i see what you mean if you're using outlaw to mean -5 faction standings."
"supporting the discussion.i like the core idea; npc navies protect against those their governments do not like; not those who have necessarily committed an action that concord doesn't like.so i think that it should be slightly more complicated than simply - \"i have 0.0 standing with the caldari, so i don't have to worry about the cn even though i am -10.0 security rating.\"so if they were to implement something like this a few tweaks to the basic idea. in order to not be attacked by a factional navy:1) the individual's faction standing plus security standing must be greater than or equal to 0. faction + security >= 02) the individual's faction standing must be positive. faction (+)3) the individual is not a member of an organization at war with said faction i.e. militia members get shot at regardless. it also leaves room for expansion.4) committing a crime in a particular faction's (exclude 0.0) space results in a standings hit with that faction, scaled to the crime and system it occurs in.the goal of the above is to allow for the patriotic privateer. if you are pirating/stealing/being generally naughty in caldari space, the gallente are more likely to turn a blind eye to your criminal activities especially if you also do some legitimate work for them."
"buumpp"
"industrialists and combat pilots alike would rejoice in the addition of shopping lists to the eve ui. whether one is fitting a ship or buying manufacturing materials, players spend long periods of mind-numbing tedium laboriously searching through the market and buying modules. this is something they do *repeatedly* - often, for industrialists, the very same items every single day. and usually they're doing so at a market hub and purchasing whatever is at lowest cost in the station they're in.imagine if you could:define a list of items (such as 'pulse zealot mods' or 'me -3 ishtar components' or, heavens forfend, '1 month oimmo research pos fuel')assign quantitiesassign maximum range (station, one jump, 5 jumps, region)assign maximum price (to avoid getting autoscammed)and save that shopping list so that every time you needed to fit out a new zealot, or build from a newly invented ishtar bpc, you could just select the relevant shopping list and select \"buy\".this would save players a great deal of time. it would save me personally at least an hour of playtime a day that could be better spent having fun and blowing up internet spaceships. and i would argue that it would have significant server load benefits as well - people would be able to get what they need from market hubs and gtfo that much faster.it's a nontrivial amount of ui design work but i think the benefit to players of all professions would be huge."
"my wife would hate this, the idea of making shopping simpler and shorter goes against everything she believes in.for that reason alone i support this :-)"
"this.... would be very nice to have.it's such a pain to remember to fetch things and go places.if anything its time for the market to be tweaked a wee bit.supported."
"supported. it would also be nice to have a corp shopping list option. groups that operate in deep 0.0 or w-space often send one person to grab a bunch of supplies, instead of the tedious \"does anyone need anything from empire before i head back out?\" conversation, we could just check the list."
"supported.i might actually find production worth my time then... perhaps it would work best if it's intergrated with the quick list?"
"i just came here to type this thread and was like oh lol its already a thread"
"wow, you apparently haven't read the past of csm's meetings notes have you mazzilliu....if you had, you would know that a pos overhaul is incredibly needed and has been requested. now, quit posting crap threads. thanks--isaac"
"get. out."
"ya know what? not worth it over a goon...--isaac"
"and you are?"
"if you remember right? lady, you're not some idiot wandering onto the forums for the first time, you're a csm member. if you don't know, elbow one of the incumbent or past members and ask them, or maybe go check the minutes. don't post threads when you know it's been raised and haven't bothered to actually look up the outcome. for what it's worth, i support the topic, however the change happens, and i hope it gets implemented soon. but seriously, be a bit less bush-league in your tactics - doing things like this make it less likely for you to actually get anywhere with your issues. making yourself look lazy and/or foolish solves nothing, and devalues your opinions on topics where you actually do know what you're talking about."
"i'm not sure if anyone read the op correctly and is just spamming the forums (yes i'm looking at you isaac) the op suggest to remove the long anchoring delay and place this removed time in the onlining section.why? well because ccp stated an anchoring queue would be too hard to implement while an onlining queue is a real possibility.i support this idea so it can be made a reality, that is if the entire pos system doesn't get overhauled anymore.btw my original thread on the matter which did suggest both queue but which is frankly not possible can be found here"
"let's not turn this place into caod alright?"
"if there is a pos overhaul in the pipelines then i can understand why people would say 'no'.however, if this is a relatively quick thing to implement then i'm all for it as a stopgap.ccp definition of soon or in the pipelines could be a long wait."
"makes a lot of sense and it is good to see the csm has passed the proposal.supported."
"because using probes to find cloaked targets automatically means you can see them (sarcasm).cloak should = being able to not be seen, and not = be undectable at all."
"you apparently have never flown a cloaking ship, otherwise you would never suggest this idea. and no, i'm not talking about the raven that puts one on to prevent dying. heck, one of the main reasons the stealthbomber is any good now is due to the cloaking device. besides, if you can be detected, what's the point of not being seen? exactly...--isaac"
"agreed, not supported."
"its not as if the probes will uncloak stealth ships.surely ships with a cov ops probe can move thereby decreasing the change of someone landing and detecting them and then they can warp off while cloaked if they see someone warp towards them.i would like to know about the probe destruction though and what people think of that. this isn't just a cloak probe topic."
"ehm local need i say morealso your \"idea\" kills all cloaking ships in one big blowevery thing in eve has a counter, cloaking (tactic) hides your ship from detection but it doesn't make you undetectable so local is the counter as it tells you that somebody is in there (counter).eve is a game of tactics and counters"
"there's this thing called \"local\""
"greetings,my corporation is currently operating out of class 3 wormhole systems, with roughly 8 people. 6 or so are miners atleast part-time.we've run into a couple hurdles. they are, as follows, with suggested solutions immediately following each item:problem: i must give players starbase config in order for them to use a corp hangar array (and use other modules). this is a possible security concern.solution: what i would love to see is two separate roles created. starbase config could be left the same -- this role would allow you to online/offline, anchor, manage, etc. a new role, lets call it starbase operation, would allow members to use modules -- they could take from corp hangars (that they have access to), use the ship maintenance array, and essentially \"use\" any other module.-------problem: doing large-scale mining in a class 3 (or below) seems almost futile. most wormholes are too small for a rorqual or freighter, and the 25% yield and speed on refining arrays is cost-preventative.now, my wormhole knowledge is based on speculation and data collected by others, but it seems that there's a low chance of a \"big wormhole\" of spawning going to a \"class 3\". what this means is... we have 2,800,000m3 of ore after one weekend of 5 to 6 people mining, with only industrials/orcas to move it, and can't get freighters or rorquals into the system. we're already talking 20 trips with a fully loaded orca, and that is from only 2 days of mining. not many people are mining in wormholes, so i think this issue goes a little under-reported, but i can tell you, that we as a corp are unlikely to do it again until something has changed. there's just no reliable way to get in and out that is actually worth the isk:time ratio. solution: i propose either increasing the yield and reducing the time needed for the refining arrays (with some sort of other balancing factor), or increasing the maximum single-ship mass the average wormhole can take. or, up most wormholes to 1,000,000,000kg, which would allow freighters, but not carriers."
"i'm not in favour of lynchings, in any way or form. i do agree that balancing should be improved and there are significant archetypes of ships that do not work well in any field atm. that said the op sweeps into the same broad motion bugs which were introduced presumably as a result of hurried introduction of what could well be balancing related changes. i do agree with a lot of the sentiments in this thread for ccp to start taking balancing more seriously, but the attitude taken as an entirety seems to be \"more, faster, better\". in other words, i believe the increased activity inside balancing on the part of ccp leads to more bugs making it through. i do not believe this is the presumption most people in this thread works from but i believe it to be correct. i would advice anyone who finds the current situation to be unacceptable to consider what they want - more activity in balancing, or less bugs."
"as mentioned above, this is my number one gripe with balancing. if he had actually read the threads before patch 1.2 that described the cloak and mwd tricks or replied on occasion to his topics beyond the initial post then it would certainly be a bit more positive and we may believe that he is active in the forum. the balancing team may well be reading the threads, but the current page 2, post, tl, dr; approach is not what is needed in balancing and games development and creates the wrong impression. simply a round up at the end of every 15 pages or so posted by the balancing team would be a good way to show that they are paying attention."
"supports the total nerf of all amarr ships"
"here is the csm's job o-----------------------------------------------------------------------------o here is this topic"
"nano nerf worst nerf.and yes amarr ships are absurd but dont nerf them make the others suck less"
"when i look through the threads all the people who give support are either dim or crying about that nano nerf, guess what i used nano ships and i think this change is for the best of the game. if you can't fly a assault ship without your nano fit then your doing it wrong!!!back to the whole nozh thing. it takes a damn long time to balance things, when you change one thing this influences a whole set of other things, this means changes in the gameplay need to be looked at thoroughly and guess what this takes time because you can't randomly change things and hope it turns out for the best. after this there is always the intermeshed web of code which needs changing and again this takes time and has its boundaries because of how eve was programmed. these many factors influence that it takes some time.now unless you actually make structural remarks in the game development forum which are useful to ccp instead of crying fix this fix that you will be listened to, because nobody likes whiners. and before you forget nozh is just the spokesperson of the team which does the balancing so don't go blaming one guy.also be glad ccp has so much player-dev interaction there is not a game i have played before where the players had such and influence on their game's development."
"hit new topic instead of reply, i am an idiot."
"im not whining!i tell you something with absulte no attack against you.im started play 3,5year ago. ican fly minmatar and gallente ships till bs and all t2 frigs, cruisers.i learned speed tank, becouse thats the matar power! i belive that, it's working great.learned both armor and shield tank. i can use all needed tech2 moduls.but, the most important, im not doing lv2 agents, im not doing boooooring agent mission anymore. just simply told, there is none! factions ship, that gives projectile/missile bonus with shield tank ability. let me tell you an example, take a cruiser, shield tank started at min.4med slots. becouse you will this items: 1,mwdorab, 2,warp disruoptor/scrambler, 3,web, 4, shieldbooster. thats needed minimum. is there any angel faction ship, witch have more than 4med slots, than they can fitt for shield tank, like angel npc!"
"i'll make some allowances for the fact that not eveyone on the forum speaks english - but your op says nothing about the weapons or module configuration. you said - and i quote: i offered you some honest to goodness cases where those ships have been fitted for shield tanking.i suggest, that if that doesn't offer you the capabilities you need in a ship, that you fly a ship that meets your needs instead of trying to get these ships rebuilt the way you think they should have been."
"allrigth,my english isnt good enough i know, so im trying to write down from the start.im started this topic, becouse my point of view is, if npcs uses a shield tanked ship, than would be fair, if i buy a ship from them, thats not a different one.the question is not about what ship i fly, or i wanna fly.angel bcs are the same, what minmatar have. it allright. they have spec cruisers, hacs,and bs, all of them is build for shield tank.change angel faction ships than they can shield tank too, or change angel npc ships for armor tank, becouse they must be the same.support this. thx"
"at least for pve, shield tanking the angel ships work. trick is to use speed and distance to your advantage. did that successfully with the dramiel and cynabal, didn't try a machariel yet, because they're kinda expensive, so i never bought one.advantage of the shield tank is the abundance of damage/tracking/speed/cap mods you can put in the lows. the rest of your tank is dps.good enough in my book."
"not supported.op doesn't know how to fit.thx."
"very, actually. most of the isk isn't in the rats, it is in the exploration sites. gas mining, hacking & archaeology, as well as ratting (and salvaging of the wrecks) is rather lucrative. think like this - it is more isk than you get off a promethium moon, and i doubt pl is willing to put small towers on those moons just to save a little bit of isk in fuel costs. right?wh space has a respawn of 4-8 days for the sites within it. therefore, if a group is actively living inside the wh space, there are typically significantly fewer sites within the system due to them keeping the spawns down. for those of us who choose to not live inside wh space, but instead in known space, when we enter a wh and find that instead of the normal 10-15 exploration sites and 10-30 cosmic anomolies, we instead have 5 or 8 total, most of which are the crap grave sites. considering a full wh space often has 5+ bil worth of goodies in it, it is to peoples benefit to \"remove the competition\". the pos mechanics are, unfortunately, quite strong relative to the access in wh space. in normal space, the towers themselves are only as strong as the fleet actively defending it - stront timers and 60+ dreads with a couple titans in support are what keep dispro moons in the hands of the dispro cartels, not the large death star towers on the moons. wh space is different - you don't have the major fleets to defend the towers, but you also don't have the major fleets to take down the towers either. as such, there is a lack of balance between the amount of force a tower can project inside a worm hole compared to the amount of force it projects outside. this balance needs to be looked at, and it hasn't yet. that is what i am requesting. obviously, the needs of the defenders have to be considered as well as that of the attackers. factors such as access to the space, spawn rates inside of wh space relative to occupied and unoccupied systems, exits to real space, all need to be considered. yes, there are other things one can do - once can assemble and live inside that particular wormhole for 3 days, and most likley sacrifice the entire attacker fleet to take out the large tower. that isn't economical, however. who would sacrifice 2 bil to kill a 1 bil tower that you don't gian from, as the wormhole to your space is now gone, and the respawns will now go to someone else. the alternative of course it to move into wh space yourself, but you soon exhaust the resources in your space (a group of 10-15 can clear a system in about 6-8 hours, easily), and then you spend the next 4 days logged off until the respawns? or an adjoining system opens up without anybody living in it? that isn't fun. assuming that the sov changes comming up do not impact pos mechanics, just sov mechanics (yes, i understand how they are and are not connected) than this aspect of pos's should be reviewed with the goal of providing some balance. personally, i am hoping that pos's do get a major overhaul, and that ccp can just remove them from wh space and instead allow people to use their replacements, whatever they are, that are balanced for this aspect of the game."
"is there any way/method to mod the sounds in eve client-side only?i'll be honest. i really dislike a load of sound effects in eve. they sound really generic, like the gun sounds. the only sounds i truly appreciate in apocrypha is the gate jump sounds. but i really could make way better sound effects for warping, weapons and ui...so if there anything that can be done???"
"eve has sound?"
"no, as far as i know, doing anything to 'mod' the client violates the eula.you could just turn eve sound off and use your imagination?"
"lol thats lameccp should let ppl do that atleast... or really do a good sound effect overhaul.... they are really weak sounds and sound cheap."
"in other words, you want wormholes to be easier, more profitable and safer than they already are....no.i'm sorry, but i see no reason for the ore compressor, that will just be overused by non-wormholers. leave it for the rorqual to use. i believe there is a reason for why the refinery \"sucks\" so much. i'm not 100% sure why though...cloud barge....maybe. i don't see the need of it though. bring more friends to mine the clouds. wh specific freighter...hmm...*looks at orca*little rorqual...no. my corporation is in wormholes constantly, so i really do not see the need for this stuff. it makes it easier to move through wormholes and quite honestly, that is not what ccp had in mind. it should be challenging to bring this stuff out of wormholes. either refine it and take the cut or move it out via-t2 haulers. simple as that. don't like the fact that 0.0 stuff gets away from your corp so often? go to 0.0. otherwise, give me a legit reason beyond: \"making it easier\" and i'll consider it. which btw, is the only reason you want this stuff. to make it easier and quite bluntly, wormholes should be hard.--isaac"
"agreed... orca for its size fits the bill nicely."
"of course i want it more profitable:) and no for the easier and hell no for the safer, wh's are not easy or safe places to be unless you in a class 1-3anyhoo's, cloud barge. you have obviously never harvested cloud other wise you will know 1) you cannot fit onto barge2) the mass of some clouds is quite hefty which means no choice but jet mining3) friends aren't always online4) the 40 second cycle time can be a pain with small cargo bayorca is cool but could do with a space boost, 120k m3 is very little when wh's to good k space are infrequent.how would ore compression be abused by non-wh's?, if it's only a 0.0 sec thing?"
"missiles have been broken for years. back in the day, missiles could to do area of effect damage to multiple targets. ccp found it was too server intensive to continue to implement it, and rather then reworking the mechanics they simply keep the area of effect damage but restricted it to the targeted ship. since then missiles have resisted every attempt to balance them with other weapon system and they are still broken today. this thread, and others like it continue to resurface time and time again where people requesting they finally fix missiles.ccp needs to fix the mechanics of the missiles so they can properly balanced with other weapon types.[my idea on how to fix the missiles?]switch from area effect to a shaped charge missile. the missile will act much more predictably in game if it is done this way. missiles that deal damage with a shaped charge remove explosion velocity and the signature size out of the equation (these are the main reasons why missiles have been broken for so long). if the missile is capable of catching the target it has effectively placed a shape charge right where it needs to be for maximum effect. the missile will then do full damage, before resistance, regardless of target size, and target velocity at the point of impact.[balance]a lot of testing will have to be done to find the best missile speed and damage for each class of missile.[defenders]defenders actually the only missiles that should to do area of effect damage, defenders destroy their targets by exploding in the target's path and setting off the shaped charge. they can't have there own mechanics tho. if a defender is going to work its going to work on the first time, or miss the target's charged tip and explode off target. so, to simplify them they should apply the new mechanics to defenders with chance to hit and chance to kill. a chance biased system similar to ecm. targeted missile class and missile skills should effect the defenders ability to destroy incoming missiles. defenders would be most effective towards mid range missiles. they could be beat by some faster short range rockets, and are less effective toward the larger missiles that hit with more force and are designed with less sensitive triggers. those triggers prevent them from being destroyed by defenders or going off while being loaded."
"i'm a missile user and i have to say it.... omfg what are you smoking? we had close to that already.. what you are suggesting goes way beyond what we had and what we had got us the nerf hammer (or should i say jackhammer) when speed was rebalanced. and even though ccp went too far with it, adjustment was necessary. your idea would be a pirate's wet dream.. cruise missiles hitting for full damage on frigs, anybody?"
"no, we had missiles that dealt zero damage to any speed-tanked ship. current system is far superior.op's idea is still stupid though."
"no reason to drop the wait time. yes it can be inconvienient, but thats why most people work for multiple agents. thats your best solution.not supported."
"/signed"
"a t2 bc class ship/skill for each race to fill a new fleet role-point defense. a weapon skill and a high cpu weapon module of each type would be added, defenders modified to fire from the missile variant, to target any missiles or drones targeting the current squad of the point defense ship. range would have to be very small to not be op- probably 10km or less. tracking, rof, and damage would of course have to be worked so that the modules are not overly effective- and things like sleeper aggro would have to be equivalent or more than that on a logistics ship. basic focus of these ships would be defensive bonuses (resist or active boost) and bonuses to point defense ability. to keep this from overpowering laser/hybrid/proj fleets by providing too good of a counter to drones and missiles- the third ship bonus would be a \"special equipment target jamming\" bonus to squad-mates within that 10 km point defense radius- slightly reducing the sig radius of those within. the sig radius would be used because a slight reduction would not effect drones or faster moving small missiles most likely to make it past the point defense, but letting the ship provide limited range active defense to all inc damage types. i'm sure this would need lots of balancing, but an active defense ship role would add to the already diverse nature of fleet combat and make it all the more interesting.(edited:clarity)"
"the meeting happened, the minutes are not yet public. they were supposed to be by now, but apparently there were communication issues. apparently they'll be out soon."
"2.3 happened and the communication issue was that rl hammered me so that the minutes took longer than expected to get done."
"and here i was trying to be nice to you"
"i'm still in the process of enquiring what tools are at my disposal for making communication easier, obviously if it's possible to put the minutes in the bar to the left, i'll put them there as well."
"understandable. i'm very interested in the results of one of the issues in particular, and was concerned when i could find no feedback for several weeks, not even a quick message saying the results would be available \"soon(tm)\"..."
"unless you man ur ship at all times with a pricey cargo we will get u yarr."
"why not about t3 production bottlenecks?"
"."
"bah i hate when oz is so possessive."
"difference is, meissa might be someone worth listening too, never had much value add from any of your postings niskin.i am going to stick by my comment about the lack of causal or care bear focused csm members. i know you don't have to \"be\" that to know how to represent that but i think it was clear reading all of the candidates election postings that the casual and/or care bear segment of players i wanted to represent are not the focus of anyone that was elected.again, i think all of the folks in the csm 3 seems to be serious about their obligations and seem bright, so i am sure if something gets on their radar they will give it reasonable consideration with at least the attempt to remain unbiased. remember however, the csm gets to pick and choose what they decide to champion from the assembly hall. so their focus and personal bias will effect the agenda of the csm 3.issler"
"it is all about what their primary focus will be as they decide what to bring to the csm. zastow's campaign was all about 0.0 improvements.looking at avalloc his first focus from his web page was 0.0 combat revamp. something that i will guaranty you affects a minority of eve, maybe a visible but vocal segment but by number a minority.also it is hard to imagine how someone that has made their life in eve being a member of goonfleet is going to make the relating to or focusing on the experience of the new or casual players.we have a mining situation in eve today with roid fields that have if anything been nerfed from where they were when i started 4 years ago and yet we have 8x the players in those belts and macro miners getting more sophisticated and basically left to run wild. who is going to make that their focus?not sure how being wealthy or generous increases the likelihood of spending some csm time focusing on that carebear segment.so i remain skeptical but hoping to be proven wrong about what the csm 3 will choose to tackle in their term.issler"
"tbh i think that between all csm 3.0 candidates two biggest carebears are oz and myself."
"wow, what a nice derail from a simple congrats from someone who didn't win (not that i was expecting to anyways - my alliance isn't large enough to guarantee myself a seat, and i didn't appeal to the majority of players who were outside of the larger allainces and were looking for a candidate, as i am more 0.0 focused as opposed to empire focused.)anyways, a continued congrats to those who won. i will slowly post my ideas in the other forum section for your consideration."
"yes please, more fonts + more sizes.i play at a lower screen resolution than i'd like because the font sizes are too small for hi res."
"i've seen at least three csm logos in the \"support\" responses. any of ya going to put this on an agenda and bring it up?"
"yes! and fonts that actually look like they got bigger when you change the font size"
"yes, yes, yes!"
"yes."
"***bump***"
"i can't remember if i already supported this or not! i hope i did."
"a smart pilot can kill almost anything if its fitted in a way that makes it susceptible. you could kill a passive tanked bs in a rifter. does't mean that rifter is worth 20 mil isk. i'm guessing you're an ishkur pilot. try flying a vengeance or a hawk and then tell me they're fine. the point is the role of an af is a niche one; the circumstances in which they can be used limited. they can fill that role, yes, but they're not particularly spectacular at it. all other t2 combat ships get 4 bonuses, afs deserve a 4th bonus so they can be a little bit better at what they do, and give the same value for money as other t2 ships."
"2 thumbs up, assualt ship damage or damage related bonus additions would be great"
"make the bonuses similar to their hac big brothers (or otherwise diverse between races/classes) but watered down.enyo: 5% armor repair amountishkur: 5% drone damage (or 5% drone speed, or some kind of bandwidth bonus would be interesting)retribution: 5% small laser rofvengeance: 5% rocket rof (or 5% armor hp)harpy: tough one to do in this circumstance, but i think 5% resist would be appropriate given it needs to put alot of mids into its sniper role. scan res/lock range bonus would also work here.hawk: 5% rof wolf: 5% rof or 5% speedjaguar: 5% tracking or 5% rofedit: to be clear, i think af's have come a long way. but they still arnt quite there. the \"4th bonus\" was a joke; everyone that flys them knows they should have had those resistances base from day 1. give them the t2 bonus they are supposed to get for being a t2 ship and they will be spot on ships with a solid role and accurate cost."
"supported. should have been made consistent with the loot ownership regarding npc wrecks in the first place (you blow it up, the loot is yours)"
"how about flag this loot thief to everyone, as he would be a thief and thus all would have a chance to dish out justice ? guess then the next question would be who the wreck belongs to, the origional owner of the stuff he stole or the person who destroyed him"
"again, being aware on how to protect yourself is good to have, however, it is no longer fool proof as it was years prior. with the new risks and browser exploits that are available why would anyone not be pro-more security?i assume you meant legally selling of accounts for isk, in that case the authenticators can be easily removed via the websites account screen by following some basic directions and usually providing 2 - 3 sequential passwords.eve does have a decent turn around time, but it took almost a week for my friends account to be returned when he was hacked 2 months ago. granted a week isnt to terribly bad, but by that time said hacker had already cleared his assets and run off with a decent chunk of the corporate assets we had as well at the time. the account was restored, but the assets were not, this protects against this type of situation. again, folks this is purely optional, and if you feel you are safe then by all means continue with out one. however, for paranoid folks like myself with multiple accounts this is simply giving us further ways to protect our investment."
"not supported.there's this thing called common sense.1: don't go to websites pretending to be eve online2: don't give out your account information or use the same username/passwords3: don't buy isk4: don't use an windows system that has crappy anti-virus/anti-spyware.... otherwise i don't care how good you are... your gonna get taken eventually.problem solved."
"and these methods no longer keep you safe is what im trying to say. again, why not allow those of us who want the extra security to do so?"
"1. we have great and helpful doctors, why worry about staying healthy.2. an authenticator does not replace the password (merely augments it) but on the other hand yeah, it's pretty fool-proof, much more so than an average password.3. and yet ccp admits that security is a growing concern. which means people aren't always to blame for new security threats. or do you personally filter your own network traffic packet by packet?4. yes. aaand..? we don't deserve security? btw wow has 11+ million active players so disparity is even greater but your statement remains irrelevant.5. again.. what this has to do with account security? the op isn't proposing to make eve into wow?see point number 1: why stay healthy if nice doctors can heal you. of course the time spent in a hospital (i.e. the weeks where you're unable to access your account) are very productive.again, completely irrelevant. yes, eve is different from wow (and from hundreds of other mmos) which has nothing to do with the fact that optional increase in security for any account on the internet, ever, should be a good thing.you completely misunderstand the mechanics of an authenticator. please do some research first if you want to argue. authenticators come into play when you log into your account (at the bank, wow, to pay taxes, whatever..). they wouldn't have any impact on functionality in regard to gameplay, characters, forums aside from making them all more secure as an option."
"oh i'm sorry... did you buy some isk recently?"
"i don't think he is disagreeing with you, it is fairly common knowledge that buying isk risks compromising your account, as do a myriad number of things. and yes, account security is indeed common sense. there is no reason to not have the option to enhance that security if you so choose. also, have you noticed the level of common sense present in the world today? seems to be fairly low, so something like this is needed even more."
"yes because if one were to get compromised they have to be an isk buyer, it cant be something legit like the youtube trojan, simply has to be ineptitude on the persons part. /boggleyou are more than welcome to not like the idea, but dont insult me."
"sounds like a good idea to me, adding that little something to reassure the player is always nice."
"hm... could make it optional. either way, i'm very much pro this. there have been cases of non-isk buyers having their accounts hacked. face it, this is the only way to make your account 100% bullet proof. if a hacker really wants to, he can and will get access to your account, unless he's stopped by not having a dongle thingie that has a unique key programmed in to it, or one of those bank'o'internjetsky safe me ho thingemagings whatchamacall'em.i personally prefer the dongle thing, but either way is fine./signed for more security"
"forget this, implement chribba's suggestions for account security instead."
"stuff that makes accounts more secure"
"i would argue that someone showing willingness to add an additional security measure to their account is being responsible. it is an admission that not everything can be foreseen and taking what seems to be a reasonable step to mitigate against unknown threats.as long as it is optional, easy to use, and cheap*, i am happy to support this.* ccp must avoid the situation with the eve store where postage costs make it prohibitively expensive for people outside north america to buy merchandise from it."
"i don't see an issue with what the op suggests. it's optional, which is the key. as long as it's not mandatory i suggest it.being a mmo-fulltimer since some 7? years now (and employee/gm before that btw), i seen alot of different kinds of security systems. the authenticator is something my sister chose to use in wow, but while i have an account there i chose to not pick one up. as i said, optional.there's no downside with this (bar possibly the player losing his authenticator, but if you're careless like that, don't use it), only gains. supported."
"as long as this is optional, sounds like a great idea. giving people the ability to increase their account security if they want to is just fine."
"if it's optional i see why not, but i don't want this to be forced upon players."
"valid pointagain i agree with your logicwhile blizzard may have kept it optional, i am too much of a cynic to believe that ccp will do the same thing, i am against people forcing me to do anything, that is my main argument against it. but i am willing to support this with the caveat that i will be telling you \"i told you so\" if and when they require it as an additional purchase."
"i have used various secure key generators extensively for work, and for wow when i last played it. the extra layer of security is useful and welcome.note that in wow it appeared at times that guild leaders and officers were specifically targeted in order to gain access to guild banks. as eve gets more popular, and in light of the recent damage done to the alliance formerly known as bob, the risk of seeing corp/alliance assets/sovereignty cleared out by misuse of a hacked account should give people pause. i hate to contemplate what would have happened had that been a hacked account rather than a wily coup.i agree that it should not be required though, but rather an additional measure for those that wish to have more security."
"not supported, although this would save me a lot of isk on drones.the way i see, there are advantages and disadvantages to each ship, ie the dps of droneboats aren't too affected by ewar unlike the other ships, while they are less useful around sentries. makes it balanced imo.although you do raise a fairpoint regarding how it's different rules for non-flashies (rr domi gangs etc), but i guess it just forces you to adapt to the situation you're in. a solution around this would be having sentries only fire on drones that commit hostile acts (so logistics drones can be used like non-flashies use)"
"i dont want this to die"
"i did. it fit just fine into my obelisk.seriously, you want a small, medium, medium-large, large, x-large, and capital freighter in this game?face it, you've got a small freighter, and it has industrial mining bonuses to boot. if you don't like it, get a freighter."
"leaving way more than two thirds of it empty.great.why would it hurt you so much if ccp introduced a medium-sized cargo hauler?"
"supporting this, especially assuming that your ptoposed solution would be something along the lines that were posted further down, being:ca. 200k iskca. 100k cargohardly any slotsno funky bonusrequires advanced hauling skills"
"i never understood the massive gap between a t1 industrial and a full freighter."
"i agree. i've looked at this for ages, and wondered: why? is it because of falcon or does it have something to do with the fact that you can't open gsc's in a corp hangar?50-250k cargo space. less skill requirements than a freighter, less cost. orca is more skill intensive than a freighter, which is ******ed for a \"small\" freighter. what about people who don't want to mine? they have to train mining skills too now?as if logistics guys aren't miserable enough as it is./signed"
"why do we need a mini-freighter?answer me just that question. (no, \"natural progression\" is not a good answer)"
"a way i think you could set a titan to be a capital killer is to give it some sort of weapon that increases damage with time. so for instance first volley it deals 5000 damage second volley 7500 then 15000 then 30000 and so on. and to keep the titan limited from a rediculous ship do not allow remote repping while doing this. also add in something where it cant be used on control towers because of the forcefield. that way you can create a ship that eats other cap ships alive, isnt going to become the new dreadnaught for towers, and isnt rediculous because of the lack of remote rep.... however it is worth it because of the ability to destroy other cap ships every 50 secondsof course this would require the titan have increased hit points so that as soon as its deployed it isnt demolished."
"fair enough. i didn't want to go into discussing heat in general, but a second reason i dislike this is because heat is very irregular. just as you can get very lucky with drops when you kill someone, you can as well get very unlucky.heat as it is is very unstable and something i dislike personally in it's current shape. there was a recent situation where i heated my guns in a fight, and for several minutes they just went on fine with very low damage. next fight they nearly shut off instantly and i could barely heat at all.in huge fleet fights heat plays less role vs small scale combat, and ironicly, one of the best tools when you fight outnumbers (your fleet is small/medium, hostile is the blob), is heat. if you can utilize mobility and range to your advantage, combined with some heat/alpha, you can overcome a stronger force. in that regards, the anti-heat titan would be another tool for the blob to be stronger, with no brains involved.that's more an issue with heat overall, than your suggestion tho, so i left that out of my previous post. i'd like to see the basic heat 'survive' a bit longer, bit less predictable, so a high-skilled thermo-pilot can utilize it on/off/longer in prolonged fights. a fixed heat damage number from the dd wouldn't make this better. it'd just add more damage to an unpredictable, but good/useful skill/tool.i still think it's more reasonable to make the titans an anti-cap ship than an anti-support ship. to be able to do that, it needs some survivability as well."
"supported! (makes no sense to undock a carrier just to rep pilots who are too cheap to pay for repairs/too lazy to dock and refit jk)"
"i support"
"this shoud be added on a high priorty list, regarding pve in general. fully supporting."
"remember bacon?edit:eula, section 7.a.2\"you may not use your own or third-party software to modify any content appearing within the game environment or change how the game is played.\"everyone who is talking on this forum already signed up to this."
"1. define \"positive\".. better does not necessarily have to mean easier2. well, when corps/alliances start requiring members to have specific mods running at all times comes to mind.3. see 24. the restrictions in wow are a joke.. i know several very successful wow pvp players that have their macroes tweaked to the point that all they have to do in combat is hit a single button repeatedly and move occasionally.5. hmm.6. but any type of macro ability.. even limited, will. as they would entail rapid commands to the servers that would normally be spread out.. unless there is a limitation on how fast commands can be made, in which case theres no point for macroes unless you are just too lazy to be bothered to push buttons.7. i like eve because its not easy enough for most of the really annoying players of other mmo's to play.. mods would bring them in droves.. you really want thousands of 12 year old wannabe pirates in eve?"
"i listed the arguments and counteraguments under \"pros and cons\". i left out some arguments that were mentioned in this thread because they were either based on misunderstanding the premise or they are ******ed. maybe i left some out but most of the valid arguments ive seen fall under what i wrote as \"equality issues\"(ex. \"this new feature breaks the eula!\" is not a valid argument)all the concrete solutions we can come up with are only speculation based on how ccp's code actually works. im not going to waste time with solutions that may not be applicable, i'm only going to speak in general terms. if ccp's programmers are good enough to make this feature they can figure out how to code it too.to the poster above: does that wow player just use a mod to turn fifteen button clicks into one or something? if someone in eve pvp did the same action over and over again it would get them killed. i don't play wow myself, so i don;t know the specifics of how the wow client mod works, but i do know that all the people i know that do play wow love their client mods and macros and all that stuff, so i think eve should get it too. also when i show them eve's ui they think its pretty ****ty once they get past the pretty spaceships."
"to all you people in favor of this out there. another argument could be that constantly releasing mod upgrades it creates more pr for eve itself and has a positive influence to draw more players into the game.and since ccp talked about creating their own-stand alone client for vivox and other types of communications they could start making that client in a way that people can mod it and everybody can gain some experience from it to see what gives."
"as much as i agree with you that the current interface is difficult to handel and needs a lot of improvments, i still don't think the public should be allowed to use add-ons, because some people are just better programmers not better players.like someone else said, i don't mind being beaten by a better player, but i do mind being beaten by someone who simply knows how to use the interface better and keeps up with the latest and newest addons.no from me.o7edit: i support allowing more costomization of the ui, and i also support limited addons created by the devs, posted only on the eve-o official site so that everyone has equal access to it.the number of addons should be limited as well.or:allow non-combat related addons!addons that help with pos stuff, pos fuel, pos fitting, maps, logistics.....etc, i can fully support this,i can fully support these and believe they're strongly needed!suggestion: in the features post someone suggested audio announcments (shields low, armor low....etc) and hundreds of players supported it yet ccp hasn't done anything about it, don't know if this could be added as an addon but it's an idea."
"is this going to be addressed at the meeting on the 7th or will it be allowed to die? i have not seen it on the agenda to be addressed and none of the current csm members have championed it that i can find."
"as it stands right now corporations have a limit of how many alliances, corporations, and players they can set standings to. this is very disadvantageous to anti-pirate corps and nrds alliances/corporations. nbsi does not require but a few standings to keep up with friends as everyone else in game is kos. however in an alliance that is nrds i have come to realize how much of a hinderance it is to not be able to sync up with the alliance. our pos must either allow non standing people to fly around it which can cause defense issues or must be set so that everyone who is not blue to the corporation is shot. since corporations must set standings to single players to make single players kos/red this limits the nrds way of the game even more. as many people will say nrds alliances/corps and anti-pirate corps/alliances do help new players get into the more intricate and interesting aspects of the game. whether you are a miner trying to find the better ores, a missioner looking for more dangerous and interesting missions, a pvper trying to test out your ship for the first time, or a new griefer/pirate looking for an area of systems where new neutrals are abundant to be engaged these groups help the interest level of the game stay high until new players can finally get on their feet and enter that 0.0 alliance or elite pirating corp or even to join the nrds groups that helped them. i feel a little help should be given to these groups that make the middle game easier and give a helping hand out."
"/support"
"supported"
"sounds good."
"agreed."
"sounds good..."
"supported."
"i agree"
"agreeing with a goon seriously, this is what we need, dynamic systems. stuff making even more high quality agents and spreading them about. make the most used agents have the lowest quality and vice-versa, change the limits as well so that quality can go above 20 and below -20 to the point that if hundreds of people continue to clog a single hub, the rewards become pitiful, only macro missioners will remain cos they don't know any better, and they will make hardly anything. low sec agents in general will be visited less often and will become more valuable.makes sense to me, the agents that get visited the least need to entice people with additional iskies. those that get visited the most don't need to give out as many iskies, as there is more competition for the contracts they offer"
"+1 for more highsec gallente/soe level 4 agents with high quality."
"yes for more empire agents"
"ccp adds a gazillion new agents in empire for caldari, gallente, and minmatar.and the csmers are outraged not because ccp added more lvl 4 agents to empire space, but because they didnt add enough lvl 4 empire agents for the other factions as they did caldari.the point is that way go catch up to it."
"the molden heath agents are foul. they should be placed in eldulf or the system next door that is not horaka. eldulf is uniquely placed as it is not only boasts a small mission hub in 0.6 space with only a minor possibility of an agent sending you to a very quiet 0.3 system, it forces you to run through atlar to get there, meaning that it rewards players who can navigate lowsec space."
"typical ccp: \"we have a problem and the solution is to not tackle the problem itself 'cause there would be whines on the forum\" thing. just imagine the outcry if there would have been no new caldari agents (like for amarr now).and it doesn't adress the whole lvl 4 high sec isk-print machine at all - which is the main problem (several high q agents in one system). would be less of a problem, if people would use the war-dec mechanic as it was intended. to drive off lag causing competitors in desireable high sec systems....but well..ccp has been talking for years how learning skills were bad and removing them would be good. even though learning skills are good to keep out the low attention-span wow kiddies, it is just not good for the game. i just want to think ccp has a reason to not do stuff that i'm not aware of..edit: i'm drunk. sue my incoherent posting ass."
"i think l4s are too lucrative for highsec altogether. i'm astonished that ccp wants to give highsec even more reward for no risk at all"
"yes"
"plz"
"good idea"
"people that want to post in and read caod do so.people that don't come to c&p, w&t or the in character forums."
"good ideapossible problem:what happens when you use the gate so much that you ignore the price; and then suddenly the owner decides to be a punk and charges a billion isk per jump?? (something they might do right before they leave an alliance)"
"makes sense. not sure about some of your proposed details(#3 is kind of unreasonable, for one), but something in this vein would be good."
"i don't want your isk, i want you to put ozone in my bridges so they don't run out. it's just another logistical hassle, especially with us bridging our capfleets around querious. i'd rather bridges be able to be set to allow non-alliance blues to put ozone in"
"zastrow,if you can get \"landlords\" of multi-component alliances to do that, i'm all for it! in our particular case, won't happen, ergo the \"toll\" idea. both ideas can exist, not exclusionary but complementary. may want to start another thread with that idea."
"i wouldn't see why there shouldn't be an option to turn this on based on standing or corporations/alliances."
"the toll jb got my vote...or somthing of simillar design..."
"not unless they make bridges like cyno jammers: one a system"
"1) the \"toll\" jbvery nice idea if ccp can make it work"
"it's a very good idea. maybe doable with few enhancements to game mechanics and high yield to many people!i espacially like that candy-bar use-case. together with the recent anchored gsc cleanup on downtime this could prevent areas to get polluted.of course it would be nice to be able to anchor such bars in permanent deadspace pockets not to forget their usage in wormholes!even exploiting this idea (of course only in adherence of the eula) may bring interesting possibilites. eves pirates will have lots of ideas for this, but i hope concord will find a ways to prevent this."
"/signedif you set this, then non-alliance blues should be able to steal the ozone too. no reward without risk yadda yadda"
"thumbs up on #2 ideai like it !!!!!"
"option one: if the bridges have always needed fuel then a break throu technology would have to be invented for a bridge never to need fuel, then if that were the case i think the inventers should be rewarded to some degree <<< not option one for me.option two: a new pos array thats large enough to hold a supply of lo to see many fleets pass trou the bridge day after day for a cost, the vending machine idea i like but u still have the problem with lazy overlords so you might end up at square one.option three: havent the foggey'est what this isand like the goon ccp overlord said, just let blues access the jumpbridge to fuel as u go <<<<<< \o/"
"in the other threads talks of removing local is leading to the need to redesign the scanner, then different ship scanning modes that will effect range and accuracy, having some fof detection built in. with the current scanning system removing local is a bad idea period. that much i think everyone can agree on. my problem with revamping the scanner is that i can't see a modification of the scanning system that people would agree with that wouldn't in one step replace a window called local to a window called scanner that cloaked ships can avoid being on. if that is how it is going to be, then save ccp some coding time and just ask them to allow cloaked ships to disappear off of local after a few seconds of cloaking? witch is essentially what removing local would do. i think in that light it is a no go for a lot of people that think removing local is a good idea. the only players pushing this are ones that do not have a stake in 0.0, or the ones that do think that some how this will remove macro ratters. macro ratters are really aren't a threat because if you enter the system the macro warps the ship off and cloaks he isn't going to uncloak and engage you in his ratting macro raven. 0.0 macro makes as much as a lvl 4 macro and thousands more in empire then the handful that operate in 0.0. this does nothing to combat them. you guys gotta wake the hell up and realize that removing local dramatically shifts the risk vrs reward of 0.0. this will hurt every entity in 0.0. its not only larger hostile alliances that gain an edge over smaller alliances, low sec pirates eve over will take pleasure in raiding your space like they do low sec but at a whole new level. their risk goes down without local and their reward goes up compared to low sec so it makes an ideal playground when they are not popping freighters in low sec.."
"no. local is an obvious artefact of game design and strains credibility and immersion in the game world. introduce useful scanners if you really need that kind of help against those pesky bandits."
"you act like people dont know how to scan, which isn't true. go ask all the ninja salvagers and whatnot, everyone got over the new scanning system after the first week.its nothing more than an iwin button for the blobs"
"get rid of local"
"good for pvp corps and alliance without a 0.0 stake, big blob alliances, but bad for small alliance / isk making. when your not roaming, and your in your alliance controlled space how do you expect to defend it? how do you expect to make isk to replace loses?with the scanning functionality now a days you have no idea when you see a ship on scan if its friendly or not. so.. your going to drop what your doing when you see a new ship and run to station, pos, or to a pvp ship? how many times a day is that new contact going to be friendly, and because you have no local you couldn't tell? how are you going to keep track of the friendly ships in local and differentiate from the new hostile ships if you have say 20 ships on your ship scanner? how are you going to do all this friend or foe detection while your trying to mine, rat, or plex? are you going to trust someone else to do it for you and hope he doesn't go afk? are you going to keep 23/7 gate camp up in every direction? are you going to keep cloaked scouts up awake and on task 2-3 jumps out in every direction 23/7? none of that helps, because that big mean alliance you asked local be removed for so you can get a fair fight, just black op jumped 30 recon/bomber gang in your best isk farming systems and are attacking members of your alliance. they are attacking at random intervals, and popping your alliance members, then cloaking. you have no way of catching them because they have brought enough dps to pop a ship before you can assist them. so now, rather then roaming and taking advantage of this local-less 0.0 you asked for... your fighting to keep hostiles at bay so your members can recover losses. the big bad alliance will be able to widdle down the will of your alliances with cloaked hostile residents on alt accounts.so in the end, you decide its worth the risk and you set up a secure alliance only channel for friend or foe detection. you request any time a alliance member changes system they report type and name of the ship they are flying so then the person in that system is not surprised to see you there. also, you make requests when you spot new ships to find out if its hostile or not giving your position, the ship type, and name of the unknown ship in the channel. those big alliances you hate so much and requested local be removed so you can get a leg up on.. well they have lots of alts and they just inserted a spy in your alliance and is now in your friend or foe channel. the big hostile alliance now has a total picture of what ships you have and where. this makes it even easier for the recon/bomber squads they have in your space to efficiently assassinate your members.after a week of repeated loses with no kills of your own the industrial members can't get any mining done because they keep getting picked off being the easiest targets for hostiles to kill. then the less hardcore of your pvpers leave because they can't keep up with ship losses during pvp, the 23/7 camping and scouting they have to do, and ship loses during pve in their own alliance space. after they are gone, the hard core of the group don't have enough members to withstand a full out assault of a blob of frigs much less then that big mean alliance blob of 200 battleships they could have easily brought to your doorstep before you asked for local to be removed. guess what? you can't see them until they are inside your little sonar net of 2-3 jumps and you don't have a good idea the gang size.. just what the ship scanner picked up when you clicked refresh.your system jammer is downed in 30 minutes and immediately after that a cyno goes up and local fills with caps. in 2 hours most of the towers your alliance owns is in reinforced, and your alliance epic fails and emo quits 0.0. mad at what has just happened you emo rage in the forum that local must be put back up immediately because you can't properly defend your own space without.ill be there with a grin on my face saying i told"
"as opposed to actually having to be vigilant? or keep enough ppl in systems to defend them? umm.. patrols? probes? gate guards/sentries (players not drones)?you then wine about cloaked ships.. well they are cloaked for crissakes. dont start on nerfing cloaks.. the farthest that should go is being able to determine that a cloaked ship is in system, not pinpointing it. what it comes down to is this.. if you want to claim all that space you need to work for it continuously.. its a priveledge and a reward for vigilance, not a right."
"supporting the op that doesn't include changes you would like to see before the op idea is implemented is dumb.any idea what the reward for the loss of local will counter the risk? 0.0 isk making is on par with empire lvl 4 mission running and risk on par with wh space. why would anyone bother living in 0.0?any benefit you gain by removing local to pvp you lose to pve mining and plexing when you head home expecting to be able to replace your ships losses, because your not going to have local either.if 0.0 doesn't completely dry up, i can see this will reduce the pvp encounter types to blobs, small recon/bombers, big bubble gate camps. the only benefit to removing of local is you can hide reinforcements either off scan range or cloaked. if you fit cloaks to large pvp ships i will be loling at your loss mails.>a small recon gang won't attack a blob or pass through a bubbled gate camp, it will fly to hostile alliance space where the isk farming is done. >a blob will never see the recon gang, and only engage a gate camp if they have more numbers. >a gate camp won't see the recons or see a blob unless the blob has more numbers then get trampled by superior numbers.the black-ops/recon/bomber gangs become overpowered and will wreak havoc in hostile space, no alliance is immune regardless their size. some smaller alliances with more space will be affected more then large alliances with fewer number of systems."
"yes, great idea. let's make life easiest for people who can't/don't want to put any effort into making any area theirs. i'm not even talking about 0.0 alliances as it's obvious. i'm also talking about lowsec/highsec corps which make a certain system or systems their home and want to keep it safe for their own operations. having someone sit and spam scan or probes 24/7 is such a great gameplay idea.no way! not supported."
"i fully support this idea."
"no local means one thing and one thing only.risk free pvp for the attackers.it would completely kill any mining not organized by huge ops fielding several wings of escorts to protect a couple of hulks and hauling ships.if this would be implemented you would have to give all exhumers a role ability to cloak and mine at the same time to make it even remotely worthwhile to mine.of course the people supporting this doesn't care since i doubt any of you are actually doing anything but hunt defenseless targets of opportunity."
"i can't see a modification of the scanning system that wouldn't in one step replace a window called local to a window called scanner that cloaked ships can avoid being on. if that is how it is going to be, then save ccp some coding time and just ask them to allow cloaked ships to disappear off of local after a few seconds of cloaking witch is essentially what removing local would do."
"because we want all ships/pilots in local to be in recent speakers mode, exactly as w-space works now."
"cloaked ships will rise in price by ridiculous amounts as they get a big buff. so those pilots are the ones who have to be really aware of their surroundings as a loss for them means a big loss. a really big loss.this while a mission runner or a belt ratter has more time to do his stuff as other people don't know that they are there until they did a scan of the system. being probed still isn't 30 seconds work so also the ratter has enough time to scan for probes within his area. i do support the idea of making probes appear on the filtered overview as it is virtually impossible to sort 2000 scan results every minute.i also support he idea of making gates and stations beacons, so that someone who just jumped into system by using a gate is known for 15 minutes, while someone who stays far from known objects to avoid detection gets to be like a shark in the water. i can even imagine scan upgrade modules for ships to counter the whining (auto-scan, (placeable)proximity scanners?). mission running gets quite safe if you can just place a beacon next to the entrance gate and you should be in real panic when it's suddenly gone (did it get destroyed or did it just expire?) :).tbh, both 0.0 and low sec without local would boost small gangs and even solo operations for both pvp and pve."
"even any consideration of a delayed local, let alone a removed local, should follow well after we actually get 0.0 populated properly again, which means making it beat the isk per hour rates of low sec and empire.see, if you want to have it easier to gank around - which is a perfectly normal sentiment - without much effort you are going to need sizeable populations to target. space will have to be used. if space remains virtually empty (exception being cva and the odd cloaking raven so to speak) and groups of people with infrastructure in space (the x64 syndrome) not having to defend that against ganks but only against capital blobs ... it is going to be a very dull experience.be smart. make sure there is prey in space. then go hunting. attempting it the other way around without any decent and competitive incentives for people to actually use space both as individuals and as organisations is a very, very, very stupid mindset.i'm sure some old timers remember fountain alliance or xetic times. people lived in 0.0, they lived from 0.0, they did not just go there for epeen slugfests while making their money ever more on level 5 and 4 mission runners, trade alts. the first dreads were built in 0.0, now people just import from empire. even with local you had a choice of places to gank carebears who just rolled over and died, you could cripple alliances (before those even existed as in game feature) and be entertained for weeks on end with the whining and the crying.just rethink it for a moment."
"i live in and from 0.0. i make my isk in 0.0, not with an empire alt. my support for this has nothing to do with the population or lack of population in 0.0. i'm not advocating this change because i'm thinking of ways to get more hunting targets. i want this change because it makes for a better, more immersive, bigger-feeling, more fun galaxy."
"as do i, but we are exceptions to the general mindset. keep in mind that the absolute majority of people just does not have it in them to seek danger or take risks or even look around the corner :/we will not get more targets, we will get less targets. the big alliances don't have to defend their belts, they just care about the moons. the smaller ones have enough trouble not to end up as pets of the big boys as it is, let alone compete with them. the bulk of individual players just has zero incentive to make isk or explore or run around in 0.0 because it is much easier and rewarding elsewhere :/that means less immersion, less stuff to shoot, less stuff to explore, less things to actually do when we log in and want our entertainment handed to us on a silver platter :pi really wonder what it would look like if we could get licenses for brilliant agents at outposts, if we could only build capitals in 0.0 or at minimum they only could be built using some massively big local resource. if having bridges and jammers and all of that depended on people's activity (!), as opposed to static structures. if empire mission loot was adjusted for less refine yields (and crippling the economy on the side). and after a few months of luring people in then removed local :p"
"die, local, die."
"i been against the \"no local in 0.0\" for a long time. but wormhole really shows it's working great, i'm a huge fan of it.definately supported."
"there is one major difference between 0.0 and wh space: everyone knows where all the ice/ore belts are in 0.0. sounds like someone wants a night of the long knives against industrials. cheap kills ftl. i vote a huge no!"
"bad idea imo, and not supported. bad idea followed by needless insults and pure arrogance and a stubborn attitude makes for a good troll, not a good proposal. just saying."
"indeed. there are differences between highsec, lowsec and 0.0 for a reason. there are mechanics that prevent being caught and there are mechanics which increase the chance of catching. it's an important part of the game.wait, you have split personality? let me copy paste your own words for you: \"low security means you can lose your ship at any time but if you know what you're doing you'll never lose your pod\"it takes a lot to lose a pod in low sec. risk is an important part of the overall allure of eve and should not be messed with. also you're talking about implants as if they were necessary. they are not. jump clones are in the game for a reason. you can use +5 implants for a while and then switch to no implants or the ridiculously cheap +3s for lowsec/pvp. even without imps the loss of training time will be minuscule.oh god.. you're so full of ****. this is either a case of very bad troll or the op was stupid enough to get podded in lowsec and this is just carebearemorage.did this upset you so much? i'll have to send that black rose guy some isk.."
"i can't believe i'm agreeing with a member of cva on an issue regarding piracy, but i think oam mkoll said it really well in his posts. the op's idea to carebearify lowsec with his pod insta-warp mechanic is a really bad idea. 41 responses, 0 supports = bad idea. i do hope the op continues to emorage on the forums though."
"oh please please please continue to justify this extraordinarily poorly thought through idea. a finer load of piffle i've not heard in a long time."
"i understand there being a need to bring more people into low and 0.0 sec but this is the wrong answer.regardless of peoples perception of 0.0, this would go against the very spirit of eve and dilute the reason people play this game."
"if i could make a contentless post with a thumbs down, it would go here."
"i like shooting pods. i also have been podded in an alpha clone 3 or 4 times. but back to our topic, i don't think this is necessary, or would improve the game."
"thank you mr idontknowwhatiamtalking about but i spend most of my time in 0.0 and or low-sec pvping, yes that is my primary occupation. shows how much you know.if you lose your pod in low-sec as a new character who doesn't know to emergency warp when they have a 100 mil (somebody got ripped off buying implants) loss just on the pod they either got a whole lot of isk for free not knowing what to do with it, are just stupid or have spend so much time in high-sec that they don't know the risk of podding. if they join an average to good corp they will be taught just these things by older players.nice personally attacking me that really builds a strong argument.i have lived in 0.0 since 2 months i've started playing this game and i only take +2's into 0.0 because i'm not a total idiot like some people apparently who take 100 mil worth of implants into pvp zones.i'd also like to meet the person who spends all their money they gained in say 4 months just on implants, also have you ever heard of a thing called a jumpclone. some say its a magical device which lets you make other clones which you can apparently also control. but these are just myths!the barrier to low-sec is not too high as long as a player joins a corp with experienced members, has a talk with anyone about the matter or just likes to take a risk they will eventually end up looking around low-sec and seeing its not so bad.and yes a great portion is actually only pve but there are also those who do empire wars, trading, mining, research you name it and only because its safer to do there than anywhere else. they have no interest in moving to low-sec so they won't.low-sec is not a barren wasteland it is just that some piece of it are neither economically attractive to the industrials and therefore barren and empty to pvp in for the pirates which means they all go to a single spot and stick there.this is exactly what happens in high sec as well. lots of people do mission at a system with agents, a small market hub forms and traders start exploiting this and it grows to a busy system and nobody cba to move (it's just like from a village to a city). there are lots of people in low-sec you just need to know where to look, yes there is more money to be mad there.people won't more to low-sec because they have no interest too, not because they are scared.now i suggest you stop posting because after 2 pages nobody has even agreed to the topic and you started flaming them."
"no support"
"no support. its easy enough to avoid getting podded high/low sec, no need to dumb the system down any further."
"i'm afraid that from that point on every gang would be expected to have 6 of the bonars to fire them repeatedly, kinda like the anti-tackle ddd on standby to rescue other titans. besides it's a counter for cloaked campers which is impossible to counter. sorry, nice idea but can't support it."
"the current usage and current price is not a good enough reason to put a mod like this on a ship like that.sure even the hint that ccp would allow you to put a titan dd on it for the next patch and you'll see every last bobs sold in under and hour. doesn't mean its a good idea to allow them to have titan dd fitted to them."
"if not on a black ops, some kind of covert jump portal compatible destroyer (another ship class that needs lovin)"
"great idea - supported."
"not supported. i have several characters that fly nothing but covert ops and recons, and while i spend the majority of the time watching my screen, and while the op suggested the sonar to have a limited range.. sure i could warp to a ss and stay cloaked and be 'safe'. i still don't like the idea of having a tool to de-cloak ships, in general, at all.perma-cloaking isn't godmode. it has counter-measures, and recons are squishy. it's main strength is the harrassment-tool it brings; i.e. just sitting there for hours, disturbing people.if something anti-cloaky needs to be introduced, it should go towards non-covert ops ships (minus supercaps, who'd fly supercaps but huge alliances if they had to hug a pos nonstop). not something that strikes cloaking overall.not supported."
"remove the cynosural field lvl 5 req for covert cyno field generator(lvl 4 will be fine) and boost the cpu and pg of bo ships...pheraps give em some ew bonus like recon ships and cover ops cloaking...."
"hell yeah."
"tl;drthe standard missile launchers need to be moved from the missile launcher operation skill to the standard missiles skill to align with the other weapons types in the game.long version.currently, the missile operation skill gives you the ability to mount standard missile launchers on your ship. however, you cannot load them with ammunition (standard missiles/fof missiles) until you have missile launcher operation 2.aside from being bad planning (why would i mount weapons i can not load? anyone?) this means that learning the very basic missile skills requires one more level of training than learning basic gunnery. consider:energy: gunnery 1 + small energy turret 1hybrid: gunnery 1 + small hybrid turret 1projectile: gunnery 1 + small projectile turret 1in all of those cases, you need only train two skills, and you can put ammunition in all of the weapons once you can use them. i know, crazy right?the point being that the gunnery skill branches out to weapon specific combat skills, but provides no inherent weapons itself.what i propose is to make the missile tree reflect this.so therefore, the standard missile launcher would require missile operation 1 and standard missiles 1 to mount (like the rocker launcher requires mo 1 and rockets 1) instead of requiring mo 2 in order to train standard missiles.for those that argue that missile launchers are more powerful than guns, and should come at mo 2, i am willing to live with that - my basic point is that the the standard missile launcher should be moved to the standard missile skill, instead of missile launcher operation.this would require changing the fof missile skill to require standard missile 1 as a prerequisite, but seeing as those missiles are supposed to be more advanced versions of the light missiles, i am willing to accept that requirement as well."
"supporting myself, just in case no one else does."
"meh.. not very impoertant, imo. but makes sense."
"i agree with that outlook. i'm not stomping around going omg emoragequit fix this now!there are definately more important fixes that need to be implemented. but something that leaves you scratching your head going wtf?? probably shouldn't be there."
"i think the reason why you have the ability to mount missiles you can't load is because you can load them with defenders instead, at least theoretically. that said, this is still weird."
"no prioroity, but it does bring the skills more in line with the turret skills."
"yeah, i've found the missile requirements a little curious myself. however, this has very low priority on fixing and probably won't in all honesty. but hey, support given.--isaac"
"hi there,i've searched the forum but didn't find any topic about this.it would be nice if alliances could create coalitions (like northern coalition, greater kenny(?) coalition a.s.o.) ingame with holding corporations for the coalition highcommand. it could be more helpfull to set standings if the great coalitions (which still exist) are at war with each other - so you can set or reset the complete coalition and not every alliance or corporation. maybe there is a chance to have another influence map for coalitions ;)what do you mean?"
"you want ccp to make your life easier don't you :di seem to remember dev's talking about a possibility of adding a new level of the corp/alliance structure and calling it coalition, but the devs have a lot of ideas, and agree with a lot of the gamers ideas too. not much they say they will look into bringing us is taken all the way to tranquility oh supported btw"
"what if multiple coalitions decide to band togetheroh god"
"the standings system is sufficient and huge coalitions have only served to stagnate 0.0 politics and shouldn't be encouraged any more than they already are."
"i would only like the idea of formal coalitions if there was a game mechanic effect for them(like sovereignty is for alliances), and i can think of no such effect that makes sense. barring such an effect, the standing system is ideal."
"umm.....why? this just seems to be a terrible idea. considering that for the most part, coalitions are not nearly as allied as alliances are. (and even then, some are questionable). i really see no point to enhancing a mechanic that doesn't need a buff. coalitions should be difficult to maintain. also, we don't need an influence map for coalitions. if you actually bother really reading into coalitions, they aren't nearly as strong as many make them out to be. --isaac"
"supported.1. would encourage the profession of anti-piracy. so called 'pvp corps' based in hisec would effectively be able to patrol the system for such outlaws making a stand in empire. anything that encourages more pvp is good.2. as the op stated, it would have to be limited to faction standings >-5.0 or whatever the limits are. opposing militia will still be shot, as will anyone with a bad faction standing."
"caen i haz logo plx? kthxbye!"
"they fix logo submission like they fix drones."
"i suggest that ever year before fanfest ccp holds an election for the least popular dev. the \"winner\" gets to sit in a booth and be a target for rotten fruit for all of fanfest. players could buy up to 3 pieces of fruit apiece and use them top vent their frustration at said dev. i suggest using only soft fruit like tomatoes or peeled bananas as we dont realy want to hurt anyone just embarrass them a bit maybe."
"yeah, but we should do the same for the least favored \"fan\". i nominate aetherwolf as the first candidate!just in case you didn't get it: not supported"
"why bother with election, \"winner\" will be nozh anyway"
"put zulupark in there."
"and i suggest that this dev should not be elected. he should be a volunteer and in return he should be allowed to ban the 100 most annoying players of his choice. during the fruit show, he is allowed to note down names, of course."
"how about just balancing devs? we could put a bunch of them on one end of a see-saw and a bunch on the other, and we'll keep adding and subtracting devs until they are \"balanced\""
"does it have to be fruit?"
"agreed... except ill be throwing rocks."
"supporting a comedy suggestiont hat won't make it (or yes? who knows)."
"armored c gets my vote. also i support fille balle's suggestion."
"wow, how about you sit in that chair first and then we'll talk. not only is this hugely humiliating, its demeaning and (oh lord, i'm actually going to say this) politically incorrect. i'm so glad you feel that these devs who work so hard for the players should be \"rewarded\" like this. and don't even bother bsing me. until you can show me another group of devs that work as hard with players in other games, (ha, good luck with that) you are just a total ass and should be banned from these forums (or even this game) for suggesting this idea. now get out of here. now. --isaac"
"gas mining in wormholes is currently overpowered and game breaking. because so much gas is needed for t3 ship production and that makes it very expensive. i think the correct solution would be to make gas clouds only to appear in class 5 and above wormholes? also their mining amount/per cycle should be decreased."
"you want to make t3 production even more expensive?"
"err...what? lol lol lol. gas mining is fine. i'd say the main \"issue?\" is datacores. not gas mining you silly person. --isaac"
"so gas mining is overpowered because you need a lot of gas which makes it expensive?what?"
"something got lost in translation somewhere."
"so close and yet so far...."
"another option would be to make them sendable, like fittings are now. that way ten people give a jump freighter pilot their lists, he runs to jita, executes them, comes back with everyone's stuff in half an hour."
"this already exists..\"market quickbar\"you can create a new folder if you have more than one item in the quickbarname your folder accordinglylook up items in the market and add them to the quickbar (right click the item name >> add to quickbar). move them to the you folder created such as \"ishtar manuf\", \"sniping mega\", or \" \"pos fuel\"however i'm unsure how many items you can add to it. currently i have over 20 items. but, i do see how a your propasal could be quicker, especially if you can buy all the items at once as long as the total is under your set budget."
"the number of clicks saved with this would be huge. two thumbs up, way up."
"would be nice.."
"i like the principle"
"kesper, i must say, very nice idea:dit's not that i'm buying stuff that often (yet), not that i'm getting blown up that much.anyway, very nice idea;)"
"industrialists and combat pilots alike would rejoice in the addition of shopping lists to the eve ui. whether one is fitting a ship or buying manufacturing materials, players spend long periods of mind-numbing tedium laboriously searching through the market and buying modules. this is something they do *repeatedly* - often, for industrialists, the very same items every single day. and usually they're doing so at a market hub and purchasing whatever is at lowest cost in the station they're in.imagine if you could:define a list of items (such as 'pulse zealot mods' or 'me -3 ishtar components' or, heavens forfend, '1 month oimmo research pos fuel')assign quantitiesassign maximum range (station, one jump, 5 jumps, region)assign maximum price (to avoid getting autoscammed)and save that shopping list so that every time you needed to fit out a new zealot, or build from a newly invented ishtar bpc, you could just select the relevant shopping list and select \"buy\".this would save players a great deal of time. it would save me personally at least an hour of playtime a day that could be better spent having fun and blowing up internet spaceships. and i would argue that it would have significant server load benefits as well - people would be able to get what they need from market hubs and gtfo that much faster.it's a nontrivial amount of ui design work but i think the benefit to players of all professions would be huge.do you realize you just explained exactly what a market buy order is suppose to do but on a grand scale? i spent 1.2m sp in an alt to do just that but you want ccp to come in and give you a tool that nullifies 1.2m sp of my train time? i think not... create manual buy orders for all the items you expect to need in advance. unless your talking about a list that when activated just buys everything off the market at a preset price then ... the longer lists will be harder to fill. the longer the list the better chance you will over pay because you narrowed the distance too much and it didnt include (jita) . the longer the list the better chance at the location you are at currently when you click buy would cause it to buy something in a system your unwilling to go into (rancer) .the longer the list is the more time it will take to accumulate the mods that maybe you could spend 0.1 isk more and get in local rather then going your max predefined 5 jumps to save that 0.1 isk .the longer the list the more time it will take to build the lists themselves your going to have dozens of these per ship per tower, per whatever all with there little predefined settings.the longer the list the more rare that the needs between the purchasing of the list will remain unchanged (do i really want to build another torp raven with faction launchers).the longer the list the better chance you'll buy something on it you already had on hand but forgot (oh crap, i just bought 6 best named arabalest launchers at 3m a pop and i have 6 spare here woops ).the longer the list the better chance you'll forget you had added something you wanted the first time but you have already bought it again and its too late now (doh, i already didn't want to buy that rig this time )...the longer the list the more isk you'll be out when at 2 am you accidental buy everything on the wrong list !all sorts of reasons the majority of the time it would be inefficient for those hand full of times when it works like it is suppose to."
"i think you completely missed the point here. this will in no way replace buy orders. buy orders will still be needed and viable for those who choose to work that way and have the isk and the time to invest in buying stuff ahead of time (and constantly nursmading the buy orders so you don't get outbid, and... ugh, this is why i don't use them). this is just a tool to automate what people are already doing laboriously by hand - buying the closest, cheapest module available on the market for its sell price. here you've almost got it, except i'm not talking about using a preset price, i'm talking about automatically buying whatever the *cheapest instance* of an item is *at that moment* within x number of jumps, with the price not to exceed value y (so you don't automatically pay 20 million isk for a medium armor repper ii, or something). that's exactly what i would be doing by hand every time i lose a pvp ship and want to replace its fittings.lists will be small, if you use them sensibly. define a list for ishtar parts, that's 10 or 12 items long. a list of zealot fittings, say twelve items.going line by line:* the longer lists will be harder to fill.how's that different from today?* the longer the list the better chance you will over pay because you narrowed the distance too much and it didnt include jita lol.true. but if i'm in forge anyway i'd probably only activate this feature in jita anyway... :)* the longer the list the better chance at the location you are at currently when you click buy would cause it to buy something in a system your unwilling to go into rancer lol.true. more ui and client-side processing work: excluding systems by sec level.* the longer the list is the more time it will take to accumulate the mods that maybe you could spend 0.1 isk more and get in local rather then going your max predefined 5 jumps to save that 0.1 isk.true. i'd probably use this the most in a trade hub, though.* the longer the list the more time it will take to build the lists themselves your going to have dozens of these per ship per tower, per whatever all with there little predefined settings.dozens? i don't know about that. i generally only have two or three regular fittings for my pvp ships, and obviously ship builds are pretty much constant. so are tower fuels, on the whole - i'd add the regular fuels to the list for the racial tower and buy the heavy water and liquid ozone separately since they are mod-dependant.* the longer the list the more rare that the needs between the purchasing of the list will remain unchanged.true. but that's a problem for the user to manage - i'd keep my lists pretty short.* the longer the list the better chance you'll buy something on it you already had on hand but forgot.dude, i do this now. i don't really think the shopping list feature would make this tendency any worse.* the longer the list the better chance you'll forget you had added something you wanted the first time but you have already bought it again and its too late now...true, but i question how often this would happen. in order to make a list it would have to be a set of items that you've bought enough times, again and again, to know that it remains pretty constant.* the longer the list the more isk you'll be out when in 2 am you accidental buy everything on the wrong list lol!yep. but if i had this feature... i wouldn't still be shopping at 2 am. :)"
"if your so fixed on the type of items you require and it is rare they they change for you then thats great. take advantage of some of those lower buy orders and pre-order the items so when it comes time you have them on hand and you can open up the ship fitting window and browse to a saved setup and in a press of the button it builds the ship for ya.for the majority of us like me i rarly buy the same parts or quantities when i rebuild a ship. when i set a ship up its rarely the same way more then 2-3 times because the situation changes or i try a new fit, or i loot a wreck and get a required part for my next build. so in all of those situations it's not the best idea to smash buy on a list because your just going to end up disappointed.the thing i am trying to get at is it is alot of design work for ccp to create a tool that at the best of times is a mild convenience. the automated buying list is never going to be as efficient as a human. the majority of the time is going to get the end user buying something where he didn't want to go, too much, too far, over buying items he already had, or buying an old list he should have altered before hitting the buy button. these things already happen now with item by item purchasing. lists will just make it worse really, the end user will notice and just after a few bad uses stop using it completely."
"i can see some possible issues with how this would work, but nonetheless, i like this idea a lot. supported."
"pure gold this."
"good idea"
"as long as it gives you a total price before confirming this improved way of buying (see it as a few sell orders rolled in once) i will support this because browsing the market, even quickbar can be quite a hassle."
"i like it! sign me up"
"just buy up the stuff in large batches. it saves more time by far then flying all over the place collecting modules one at a time when you need them and lets you effectively fight a war without having to hope you don't get camped in a station with an ibis.you can't claim this would help people with enough money to not care too much about paying slightly higher prices while at the same time claiming you can't afford to stockpile modules in advance?also what happens when price fluctuations drive the price range out of your shopping lists settings? if you limit it using a percentage range of average price traders will manipulate the average price to sell people like you overpriced goods. if you limit it to a fixed price range and the prices go beyond that range then you have a non functioning list and end up having to access the market anyways.market quickbar not supported. just seems like a pointless addition when better tools are already available and under used."
"modules, yes. modules *and ships* - no, and why would i buy modules without ships to put them on? i buy a group of ships and their associated modules ahead of time, fit them and move them. and then i have to go through all that horrible rsi-inducing clicking every time i need to replace what i lost so that i still have backups. the same issue still applies.or take the case of people doing invention - you don't know, from day to day, exactly how many invention successes you're going to get. that makes it hard to predict how much you will need of something. you're not super wealthy, you don't have massive amounts of capital to invest in buy orders ahead of time, and for that matter you don't have the time to modify your buy orders every two seconds when someone outbids you by 0.01 isk. being able to avoid all the clicking that is otherwise entailed is huge.i *wish* the market was that volatile, i'd be making a lot more money than i do. sadly, except around patch time, things seem to be (relatively) stable). so far, anyway, though i haven't been doing industrial stuff actively for all that long. (edited due to epic fail.)"
"stop splitting hairs. buy what you need in larger quantities if you need them i don't care if it's fuzzy freaking bunny slippers for your exotic dancer stockpile.wait so you replace everything you lost on a one on one basis? why? that defeats the purpose of stockpiling the stuff in the first place. if you do this is called obsessive compulsive disorder.market quickbar...if you don't know what you need how is a preset shopping list going to help? so you admit it wouldn't work some of the time. so what happens if a major change takes place in .0 and disrupts tons of tech 2 production like say goons exploding bob? prices spiked for a bit and have remained higher than what they were in the past ever since. now you have to go in and adjust your lists. even better is what happens when prices drop but your still paying a premium because you haven't changed your max acceptable setting? assuming you are not at a trade hub of course. if your at a trade hub you already wasted time getting there for a common easily accessible item found most everywhere or you are there for better deals on much more expensive items it's not going to be on your usual shopping list anyways seeing as though your apparently nearly broke all the time.just use the quickbar access common goods more quickly it's not difficult. the variables that can't be accounted for with a shopping list would make it more difficult to work with than what you think and probably not reduce server load at all because one way or another it still has to query and change those exact same databases. in fact this could easily be abused to overwhelm they system by simply creating a shopping list that query's everything in the whole region and spamming query's like crazy to bog down the system. people will do this kind of crap too and right now they can't do it without everyone in the entire games assistance and the chances of that are very unlikely. who knows what kind of effect something like this might have on the performance of a solar system if any but if it did a losing side could just query spam the server and crash the system to save face or worse just use lasers in all battles even more than everyone is gearing towards them now because they are unaffected by lag.on another note you can always shoot me your shopping list and i can buy the stuff for you and then charge you a premium for the service and we can get useful work out of the dev's at the same time.sounds like a good business opportunity seeing how many people here would rather have an \"easy\" button. sandbox gaming ftmfw!concierge service!"
"[proposal] hauling ship adjustmentscurrently, the progression for hauling of goods is a little bit out of whack with what i believe the player base is looking for. i would like ccp to look at the following:jump freighters: split off the cargo and the fuel bays. make the cargo bay able to hold 3 gfcs (360,000 m3), and the fuel bay able to hold at a minimum 100,000 units of the appropriate isotope.currently, the anshar (which i am familiar with) holds 337,500 m3, including fuel. it is just close enough to want to be able to fit that 3rd freight container, but not enough, particularly when you put in your fuel into the same bay. it would ease logistics where a few pilots are moving goods that are packed away in containers.the tech 2 industrials have some very nice features relative to their cost and their intended use in more dangerous space. however, when you compare a rigged occator to a rigged itteron 5, the itteron 5 actually has more cargo capacity. make the cargo bay on the occator (and other tech 2 industrials, but not the blockade runners) at a minimum equal to two jet cans worth of space, or 55,000 m3 (more being possible with rigs). this would also allow it to be able to move a battleship out of a pos assembly array. orca: the orca as a light freighter leaves a lot to be desired, particularly with its significantly different skill tree. my personal opinion is that it is trying to do too much with just a single hull. however, as i doubt ccp will look at splitting the roles apart, can we at least ask them to look at adjusting the light freighter aspect to be a bit more in line with what people are looking for. first, increase the cargo bay size to allow up to 2 freight containers (240,000 m3) worth of cargo space; more if rigged for cargo space instead of tank. the ship bay needs to be able to hold one battleship. the corp hanger function is needed to allow the ship fitting abilities, but its size should be relatively small in comparison to the cargo, about 10,000 m3 max.i felt that this proposal is different enough from the current active discussion regarding light freighters (found at:"
"for jf, i look forward to fuel bays, but i don't see why they need a capacity buff. for deep space transports i agree fully - you might be going a bit far when you say 55k, but they should hold at least as much as the t1s do - the stealth nerf of only getting 2 rig slots ought to be fixed. for orcas, i mostly disagree - the roles of mining support and small freighter do go together fairly well. nerfing the corp hangar will wreck its biggest purpose other than gang links(cargo transshipment) in mining ops, and while i might buff the ship maintenance array to let it fit battleships, i think there are better solutions to that problem(e.g., freighters). as for dramatically increasing the cargo bay, no, that's unnecessary. if you want high capacity, fly a freighter."
"i have a feeling that ccp intended that jfs could only haul two gfcs max per run. although a fuel bay would be very nice, that almost seems too many isotopes to able to hold. also, i do not support \"easing logistics\" as using a jf makes logistics too easy as it is. as for the occator and other t2 industrialists...they do not need bigger cargo bays. they already move a considerable amount as it is. orca issue is visited so many times, can we just finally drop it? it works as a smaller freighter and just because it requires weird skills, that doesn't require changes. (for example, the light interdictor and heavy interdictor. two completely different skill trees) also, it doesn't need more cargo space. we don't need to make mining easier. as for the battleship part, i agree it should be able to hold another battleship. otherwise, by reading this, the only reason i see the need for changes is to make logistics easier. which in all honesty, its too easy as it is. so unless you can come up with a better reason for these changes, no support. --isaac"
"perceived issue:the assembly hall section of the forums is hard to read and follow due to the sheer volume of threads and postings as well as to the often questionable quality of their contents. this is likely to detract voters from voicing their support for the many good proposals that are posted, resulting in less-than-impressive numbers of thumbs-up throughout. also, poor proposals and general ideas threads not only clutter the space, they actively hinder worthy issues from being supported, as people won't support a half-baked solution, and yet will feel uncomfortable starting yet another thread with a better solution.proposed solution:- discussion of issues and ideas should be moved to either features and ideas discussion or jita park speakers corner, as originally planned and stated on that section's description.- assembly hall should be reserved for the results of that discussion: well-considered and -worded formal proposals for the attention of the csm taking into account views and suggestions from various sources and geared towards finding the support of a majority of players- assembly hall should be closely moderated and enforce said distinction as well as a certain quality of postings, preferably by a team of csm delegates- a faq for that forum might clear things up further, avoiding re-posting of the same ideas again and again without consideration of previous thoughtsadvantages: - more efficient discussion and raising of issues- greater clarity regarding the process of raising issues- jita park has some actual use outside of electionsdisadvantages:- people don't like to adapt their habits to new rules- moderation always incurs suspicion of favourism- more work for whoever does the moderation"
"this sounds like a really great idea. i support this deeply."
"i think some new rules are needed, but i don't think these are the right ones. the basic rule i want to see is that the assembly hall is for finalized topics only. if you've got some airy \"i want to fix this but i don't know how\" it goes in features and ideas, gets hashed out, and moves to assembly hall when it's finished. jita park is the wrong place, it's for topics about the csm, not topics for the csm. if you want to create a thread to discuss what new forum rules ought to be or something it'd go there, but for gameplay, f+i is the right place for raw discussion."
"hmmm... from that and the \"park corner\" thingie (soap box and all that...) i would have expected this to be the place to rant about things you want the powers to be to change. also, i expect that is the plac assembly hall regulars are most likely to visit. c/d?anyway, i adjusted my op accordingly."
"i suppose i'm deriving my definitions of the forums from how they're used more so than their explanatory blurb, but the split makes sense i think. assembly hall is for topics the csm is to consider, jpsc is for minutes, elections, things of that nature - it neatly encompasses everything, and it is how they're getting used anyways."
"no to lazyness however i think it would be great if we could online + anchor two different modules at the same time.it seems so logical n it's very harassing"
"modules get onlined more frequently than anchored, this change would increases the time required to operate a poswhat is important is the reward/effort ratio, the tremendouns number of pos in the game shows that for pos this ratio is too high, pos should require more effort than they do now, or the benefits that they give should be reduced.do you support mining ships going into a belt an sucking all the minerals out with one click? mining / operating pos / ratting are supposed to be time consuming, at the moment operating pos is the most efficient of these which is why i nolonger mine of rat."
"that first bit is accurate, but your last two points are borderline insane. making the game intentionally less fun is not a way to balance it."
"agreed.but it is better to say \"this game is awesome, but not easy\" than to just say \"this game is not easy\""
"hi all,briefly: i watched 3 or 4 people (if they were different players/accounts and not alts on the same account) spam the gtc forum with wtb posts.moderation consisted of the ccp person bumping the post and actually moving it to the top.these threads need to be deleted and/or the person needs to get a forum ban for a day or so.if you are going to moderate the forum and say you will give consequences then you need to follow through.either that or just remove the moderation or say what you will actually do."
"voting down because i enjoy my gtc forum price inflating shenanigansalso the sheer volume of threads pretty much ensures anything done in there is on the third page within a few minutes."
"except in wormhole space of course ^-^"
"this has been discussed in the past i realise but isnt it annoying to warp into a belt and see nothing but these nuisancesthere wasre some discussions about it in the past. still might be worth looking at. any reason why a can can sit there for months simply because some miner is too lazy to haul???"
"an anchored gsc will only stay for 30 days from the time of last access. so if they're there for months, someone is using them - which is more or less what they're intended for.judging by your post, i'd guess you don't mine in any serious fashion. it's a lot more productive (especially in the smaller mining vessels) to fill a bunch of gsc's, then go back get a hauler and empty them all at once. it's exactly what i did before i got my hulk.no support - just in case there was an actual proposal in there somewhere that i missed."
"you can configure hangar access that it doesnt require the config starbase equipment."
"really? how? i've tried to figure that out for a long time.either way, my second item is the more serious one, anyway. would love some feedback on it."
"when corp hanger is set for corp view and take... then it will defer access of each tab of the hanger depending on the characters roles under \"hanger access other\" for view and take of each tab.you can do this for all mods on the pos. guns for ammo, silo for reactions, refinery for refining, pos for fueling."
"i think there is a intensive refining array that has better yield but more difficult pos fitting.yep 75% refine at 200k m3 per refine and takes 3 hours per batch. run a orca with low end minerals from empire and refine and build the rest local!!two orca trips of trit and one of pye should give you enough low ends you can bypass the lower end ores completely for a good long time.building anything more then ammo is going to be near impossible i am afraid unless you put several pos up and dedicate them to refining."
"maybe time for a rethink of refining arrays for wh space. how else are you going to maintain a presents if you can't manufacture the ammo easily enough at a fast enough rate to keep up with demand."
"wtf.. just because you dont like what he's done, dont try to get him fired.. try to get his attention in other ways. will post a suggestion to that effect."
"i feel that the nano-nerf was a necessary change to keep missiles in the game and a viable weapons system in pvp. also, i strongly support ccp's recent agility decrease patch, which now allows cruisers to actually violence each other once again.if you don't see that falcons were so ridiculously overpowered that they were breaking the game, and completely imbalancing small gang pvp warfare, contact me in game for a demonstration. seriously.i've set up my own ecm tests to test the effectiveness of ecm vs. non-eccm'd ships, and ships with all the way up to 5 eccms (sensor strength of 140+). falcons needed the nerf that they got more than i think any balance issue needed balancing since i started playing eve.dude, the guy's busy. give him a break.please give the devs a break. they have the scrutiny of their own bosses, plus 150,000 eve players they have to consider. i think they do a really good job considering everything they try to do.how so? they've all received some balancing, caldari, gallente, amarr, minma-err, wait. those who need it, get it. they've all had nerfs that i can think of, and most of them were well deserved.not supported. the guy's probably got one of the most difficult jobs in eve. most of the changes were needed (missile balancing, falcon/rook and ecm change, agility decrease, nos change, even the nerf to my precious webs) all were changes that were needed.please consider the possibility that making eve a great game doesn't necessarily mean making the popular choice every single time. if it did, then carebears would have their way, missiles would be the most overpowered weapon system in the game, and we'd see threads requesting a namechange from eve online to space-wow."
"the guy that posts the devbolg regarding changes is part of a development team, not necessarily the lynchpin. if the team ****s up, it should be onus on the csm as player reps to protest the changes and suggest viable alternatives. asking for resignations is stupid and will only lead to the delegates getting a free trip to iceland with no appreciable impact on the game. do i like the 'rebalancing' from ea on? not really for the most part, but there are constructive ways to express and suggest change."
"this post has been cleared of inappropriate content.regards,the eve online moderation team"
"so, i just realized i have a conflict with this meeting date... i have family coming over this weekend, so probably 99% chance i won't make this meeting. alts you better be sure to log on, and can you please not raise the issues i brought up in this thread if i don't come? i'll bring them up instead next meeting.so, consider that your official notification that i won't be here. dunno if i'm supposed to send that warning to some gm's email or what as well."
"go issler! :)does this mean the participating alternate can also add issues to be raised?"
"updated and removed your issues :)"
"all nine of the new csm actually present when required?! i sure hope this will hold. strange, though, that two of them didn't speak up even once... what's that, afk csming? :ofunny thing: you demand all issues to be raised are determined 7 days before the meeting, yet you set the next meeting just 7 days after the first - how will that work?anyways, congrats to a good start to the 3rd one, looking forward to see all the minutes in such a timely fashion."
"i vote for more light-hearted humour.:d"
"i like you and i will vote for again."
"capital jump should look different definitely."
"/signed"
"to those supporting:please read and consider some of the criticisms of this proposal before blindly giving your support. (see page 2 & 3)yes- neutral rep is annoying and surprising, but how is it any more effective than in-corp repping? the reason that it's more frustrating is because of the element of surprise- if you had a gang of 6 versus a gang of 7 war targets, you might not engage- but if only 2 wartargets are there, you're much more likely to engage, at which point they might use their rr. it's not like neutral reps add dps to a fight- in fact, if it becomes clear someone is using neutral rep, the solution is to deaggress and bring enough firepower to kill the rr, or break it.what makes eve great is that it's about tactics, life or death decisions, and being as damned sneaky as possible. you need to come up with your own counter to rr- if you don't have the firepower to break it, bring a falcon with racials for their rr ships- it's not that hard. what this proposal does is evens the playing field, making a small, experienced rr gang only as effective as a small, experienced non-rr gang.if you like blob warfare, go join goonswarm. if you have any sort of appreciation for tactics beyond just calling targets, reconsider what this will do to small gang warfare."
"clarification: remote repping anyone will share all of their aggro with you. if a is at war with b, and c remote reps b, a may immediately shoot c. likewise, if x steals from y's can, and z remote reps x, y may immediately shoot z."
"2 thumbs down, no thanksbeing able to shoot the rr is enough."
"surely you agree that there's something wrong with the idea that someone can have such a large affect on the fight simply because they are a neutral party. i actually agree with a lot of your points, but it feels a little outweighed by the idea that i can warp my logi alt to a nice spot at 0 on a station and basically turn the tide of a fight, and the only risk to me is forgetting to tab to that alt if it takes fire. thinking about it now, i don't like the idea that this would add an aggro timer, since in corp logistics that stick close to his gang/wingman in a fight (fight on a gate with the logi in jump range so he can come in and out) are basically ****ed then. maybe the logi simply needs to do his best to get a new position or have the defence focused on him while he moves around. i dunno. can we come up with a way to meet somewhere in the middle on this? maybe there's a way to set up some sort of timer on someone who is out of corp/alliance?"
"this"
"yes, i want wallet divisions too, good idea :)"
"all for!/signed."
"i'd be in favor of a savings account, that you could not directly spend from. only transfer out of or into main wallet."
"yeah. it'd be nice.you can do it with characters ofc but it's hassle-ey."
"seperate hangers aswell.but one thing at a time i guess"
"/signed/double signed"
"completely agree!/signed for op"
"i fully support this service/idea!"
"this and the wallets."
"appreciate the support sumnamna and i will promptly apologize and accept the tar and feathering should that happenappreciate the support everyone is giving this, much more positive comments today."
"something like yubikey would be easier to implement and provide similar security.if cryptographic authentication is good enough for government departments, banks and major network providers, surely it should provide some advantage to ccp?spend a couple of weeks getting yubikey authentication working for the game client, web site and forums, save months a year tending to \"my account has been stolen\" petitions."
"i already suggested the yubikey. the upcoming version sounds great. but either of these solutions work for me."
"drones are guns too! my pulses don't pop when gate guns shoot me, why should your \"mobile\" guns go pop?"
"yes"
"i agree with this, as a pilot who uses drones in every engagement."
"supported. i also think gate gun damage should be increased on bs's and then scaled down by ship size making it possible to tank gate guns in a tanky cruiser.being able to fly a variety of ships is part of the fun of the game. pirates choice of ship are somewhat limited and the nerfing of drone boats for piracy has only exacerbated this."
"domi / ishtar are allready overpowered.giving them ability to pirate gate camp is unjustified as this is one of there few weekpoints.also 3 or 4 domi/ishtar on a gate with drones assigned to insta locking hic = i win button, so no thanks."
"cant support this and if anything i'd like to see the damage from sentry guns increased!"
"how can you have less skill requirements than a freighter, but more skill requirements than an industrial?industrial v -> advanced spaceship command -> freighter.on the other hand, a ship of similar mass to an orca that has a higher cargo-volume-to-mass ratio than an occator would be quite nice for folks exploiting w-space."
"because 1 billion is a lot of isk for newer players, and a freighter has more cargo space than most people need. a freighter is also incredibly slow. i could easily afford a freighter right now, but it's pointless. i'm better off doing several trips with a smaller ship.training for an orca is pointless for me, as i don't mine very often, and i use a battleship when i mine. training mining barge to lvl5 is absolutely pointless for my needs, and training mining foreman is even more pointless, as i hardly ever go on mining ops, and if i do, i'll be there as protection, not a hauler or miner.what do i need a smaller freighter for? because my alliance m8s don't wanna fly their jf to where i have my ships/equipment for pickup, so i need to move my stuff to where they have the jf parked. when i want 2-3 bs moved 20+ jumps, it becomes a pain. the best i could do is an iteron v with cargo expanders, but then i'm still just able to move one at a time.so what i need, is a ship with 100-250k cargo space. besides, why should we not have small freighters? why/how would it be game breaking? because freighter sales will go down? i don't see a problem with that. freighters still have their uses, like building outposts, moving capital assembly arrays etc."
"i think you misunderstand the intent completely. the intent of this fix is 3 fold. #1 it give's smaller groups a chance versus a larger group while still requiring a fight no matter what. that means that titans are tactical decisions rather than 20 seconds of welp deciders. even in a successful dd, you at best have incapacitated a fleet, you haven't killed it. that at least provides them a chance to fight back and/or recover. that makes sense when you're speaking of titan's changing the course of warfare.it also means that if you are the smaller group, you don't have to add insult to injury when deuch bags decide to dd just because they can. you're right thought on 1 point, it does give a big wild card to hitting a small group where statistically it's much less random on a large group. so what happens if that group get's incredibly lucky and has little to no heat damage. well for one, they now have your titan at their mercy unless you're ready to fight them off. zoinky's maybe that'll put an end to the double dd era of two titans and a dictor without support setting up on someone's travel gate randomly and with little real cause.#2 it brings sanity to capitals and titans in particular. damage remains so that carrier fighter blobs are affected. heat has a more crippling affect on dreads than the current dd does, as does the neuting. however, there's no real way to dd a cap fleet into oblivioun before counter dropping because any one titan would be insane to risk itself infront of a dread pack w/o a support fleet. dd while a friendly dread fleet is on grid is another problem because you run the risk of affecting your own immobile dreads and more importantly, your carriers which can save you. it also means you can't stack dd to get a titan out because 1, their cap is affected which affects jumping out of system, 2 they're warp scrambled temp, which kinda works against bailing them, and 3, heat damage is an insain risk on a friendly titan.so titan spamming is hindered greatly without the much greater acceptance of risk. #3 the revival of fleet warfare. delve war 2, 3, 4, whatever is a good example, but everywhere it's seen. people are forgoing even fights for the use of titan's. goons 2 days ago choose to use 6 titans instead of 220 man fleet including carriers and dreads against 110 standard fleet and 80 hacs. the excuse is what's so sad, it's about griefing, not good fights. 0.0 is about good fights, people are fed up with having to deal with the constant threat of titans because it creates far less action. nobody in this game cares about losing a battleship anymore, insurance failures has assured that. what people care about losing the opportunity for fights. there's such a delicate balance right now with the current dd incantation. titans are considered a necessity of 0.0 due to their dd potential as it stands. and because stacking has no real negative affect for the users, titan proliferation has become a joke. yet with so many titans, how do you justify not using them. you either choose to use them and **** off your fleets for doing so, or you chose not to and **** off your fleets and your titan pilots for doing so. people have tried to do both, but where's the justification. i mean the ideal is, they have 400 you have 200, so you dd until they only have 200 right.... well it kinda doesn't work that way. this new implementation is more of a field evening tool w/o actually removing the fight. benefit from titan use without over benefiting for it.blobbing is bad yes, but i'd rather take a 200 man fleet against a 300 man fleet knowing that whether we use titans or they do, it won't be the only deciding factor in a fight, only a strategic tool. and a bonus 4th* the days of nano titans would finally be over, i mean seriously, wtf is wrong with"
"i've now exceeded 600000 lp with interbus with a standing of 9.99. there's still no lp store and no story line missions have been offered. i'm wondering why the agents are in the game at all.the other day, while running the blockade level iv, serpentis, one of those freak battleships showed up at the end with super low resists. it dropped a snake delta. is cool loot like this common? could it be a reason for having interbus missions?strangely enough, i've never gotten anything as cool from the serpentis overseer in worlds collide level iv, serpentis/gurista.my plan is to quit running interbus missions once i reach a standing of 10. it sure is taking a long time though and i'm not sure how much time i should expect it to take. i've never reached a 10 standing with a corp before -other than my own. next on the agenda will be soe."
"great idea and should be easy enough to do."
"signed"
"eula, section 5\"ccp may, in its sole discretion, amend the eula from time to time. if the eula is amended, you will be asked to review the amended eula when you log into your account, and to indicate and confirm your acceptance of the amended eula by clicking the \"accept\" and/or \"confirmed\" buttons.\"please, make a serious argument."
"i really dont think you understand the nature of how things are spread on the internet. im pretty sure you didnt code 99.9999999% of the stuff you're running on your computer right now. 99.9999999% of the mod using population wont have coded their own mod. the best mods are not going to be some super secret lock and key thing. the best mods are going to be on the front page of eve's mod website. you probably found the programs you are currently using because someone or a trusted source recommended them to you as the best. that's how people are going to find mods. i'm not using some super secret awesome internet browser because im in a big alliance, im using firefox because its been recommended as one of the best. opera users aren't going to get a one up on me on internet browsing, but they have their own ui for their own personal wants and that's perfectly fine. that's how i want eve mods to be like. let us choose what is best for us and don't force us to stick with the default \"internet explorer\". all three types of programs get the same stuff done, but some of them automatically block popups and so forth.audio announcements are a step towards what bacon was creating, but they could also be a help to players with poor vision. i dont know how i feel about that particular issue, but if eve mods were implemented whether playing audio was allowed or not within the mods would be a point of debate definitely.also, the \"alliances requiring everyone to have the same mod\" might be a concern, but alliances also require you to get a forum account, install some 3rd party teamspeak or vent or mumble software, buy a mic, and keep a certain level of activity as well as possibly conduct yourself in certain ways in public, and avoid certain associations with other players. if you already have issues with an alliance controlling you, thats not an issue to take up with the people who create new features, thats an issue with your alliance."
"i support this. it would be pretty simple to make the ui 100% customizable clientside, and still have it send the proper information that's required to the eve servers, all this without having to allow 'addons'."
"most people seem to not understand how modding works. how exactly did mods kill wow? i can't imagine playing with the horrid crap that blizzard created. but that also freed up developers for content. win-win.currently we are probably going to have to have an expansion dedicated to simply upgrading ui. after that hits, some will like it, some wont. some would have rather had more content. letting users create the ui would have pleased everyone.tell me exactly how you're going to be wtfpwnt by someone who can tab through his overview targets and press 1 to approach and 3 to warp to zero? i am personally very frustrated that i have to click everywhere. letting me sit down write a simple mod that lets me bind keyboard keys to certain commands, would solve a lot of my current problems with eve."
"and so what? we're re-signing to eula on every patch - so it's no problem for devs to change it if they think it contradicts with content of new patches."
"1. more stable and creative player base.2. there's nothing bad in it if it will happen - it's like specific overview settings, which now required in many alliances too.4. it's because of wow pvp mechanics, not because of mods.6. there is point in macroses even if there are restrictions on them - after all, we're talking about ui mods, not some uo-style munchkin code.7. again, the game hardcore is determined not by how unusable interface to 12year-old, but how this 12year-old will be unsuccessful in the game despite of interface usability."
"i'm a relatively new player to eve (5-6 months or so). one thing i found extremely refreshing about playing eve, was that despite the ui being a bit clumsy, awkward and unintuitive, that's what i had, and that is what every single other player in eve had. i did not need to search endlessly for ui modifications, download and install each individually, learn their uses, learn which are necessary for pvp, learn which are necessary for pve, all while coping with eve's already strenuous learning curve. i am solidly against any sort of ui modifications in eve, that said, the ui could use some work, personally i would love the ability to hotkey all the commands from the overview box (the one that fills when you select something) i.e. orbit, warp to, align to, keep at distance etc."
"not much to say, this will benefit everyone. playing mmo's without chat moderation addons has been a horrible experience. and the overview is so bad, i don't even know where to start."
"great idea"
"every time i accidentally turn off my warp disruptor or shield booster while trying to overload, i think \"gosh, i hope someone who has more patience in dealing with the eve-o forum community than i do will propose some sort of idea to fix some of the horrible horrible horrible buttons and ui designs in this game.\"thank you, mazz. thank you.ps: hey idiots, stop arguing against the source of an idea, and argue the merit of the idea itself. you only sabotage what i'm sure are your good intentions and make yourself look like a dope. these lower boards are a pro-logic zone, jerks."
"you obviously didn't read my post well, i know that 99.9999% of the people didn't program their addons, but people who have access to better ones and know better tricks will have an out-of-game advantage.if you ever played wow you'd know that the best pvpers have excellent addons which not everyone knows about, a medicore player with very good addons is likely to defeat an excellent pvper with no addons, and i don't want to same to be in eve.logistics and other stuff do need addons or at least improvment, pvp has to stay the same for everyone."
"i'd rather their programmers spent their time on other things, and hired a good ui programmer to overhaul the current system."
"isnt wow pvp based a lot more on how fast you can cast all your stuff though and reaction times? i dont know a lot about wow much at all but i do know that gameplay is much slower paced and tactical in eve, such that someone with experience can probably play on the same level as someone with experience and a mod, except they may accidentally buy a 32 million isk clone rather then a 32 million sp clone occasionally.(raise your hand if you did!) *raises hand*eve pvp macros will mean one button pressing f1-f8, and one button for setting speed and orbiting at specific range, and another button for orbiting at a different range, etc. you still have to think about which button you really want to press, but now when you press that button you wont be wasting precious time trying to click click click fhjsfjdkshfd that thing you wanted to click. if youre still too dumb, after addons, to know for example how to fit your ship, then no mod will help you. mods wont be able to make any of the important decisions for you. so tell me more about these secret ui mods that elite pvpers have that nobody else has, and why nobody else can figure out how to make them."
"it has been stated repeatably that wis is an off shoot of ccps development of the world of darkness mmo, which despite the ops whine isn't likely to be canceled.i doubt that the implementation of a walking in station module into the eve client has any major impact on the already established eve dev teams."
"worst idea ever in the history of eve. not to mention even if you got support for this crappy proposal, your chances of having ccp actually comply with it are about 0."
"i want \"walking in steation\". now think again.ambulation adds quite a lot to the game. maybe not to your game, but to mine.please do so. oh, can i have your stuff?"
"i do."
"+1in fact i am willing to be the vast majority are looking forward to it. you may not like or use it but it doesn't make it any less interesting as an addition to the eveverse."
"delete"
"first of all the whole issue has never been raised by the csm, i don't know where you get that idiocy from.and you are clearly unaware of the seriousness of the situation. ccp has been saying \"we're aware of it and will fix it [insert broken promise here]\" since november. last thing we heard is that they had gone through the data the players provided and would roll out fixed \"right after apocrypha\". everything after that is the same old \"yeah, we're looking into it\".what the csm needs to do is say to ccp that the current situation is unacceptable for the fw players, and that resolving the situation needs a much higher priority. it seems me that there are some technical people that want to work on this, but it's being bumped off the to-do list in favor of other things for half a year now. meanwhile the people in fw are getting sick and tired of this as they can't have any decent-sized fleet combat without the lag rearing it's ugly head."
"absolutely no problems here, we deserve the extra agents thanks to our crappy ships and our victory in fw."
"fully support this. i am just starting to run amarr missions, and was very disappointed that we got no additional agents. hopefully the corp i'm running for will have some decent ones when i get to lv4."
"yes yes add more l4 agents to high, soon carebears will cry bad when 60d gtc hit over 1b+."
"we need less agents, not more.i thought this was an mmo?"
"definitely supported, a balance of agent's is definately overdue."
"i originally agreed with this proposal, however after giving it some thought, i've arrived at a different conclusion.i think all mission running should be restricted to fw participants, and recommended this."
"hmm, you have experience in game design then? how about experience in overseeing the agents of eve in ccp development???so, you want to make the corps similar, and the races similar...so players can just stick to their own race agents? variety is the spice of life...aagin, what's your point? why should all the races be equal, with the same blueprint of systems etc? it would make for a much more boring place, with players staying within their own racial space (and mostly in empire, since that's where a majority of players spend their time). having different types of agents, and different ratios of stations etc in the different regions makes players move about at least.i'm in favour of moving the better quaility lvl 4 agents to low sec only, to draw players out into these areas.arithron"
"how about being two months away from a master degree in game design and development, winning the game design contest at the ms devdays 2007, getting second place in the dutch game jam 2008, and working for half a year with charles cecil to develop a game for charity? can make the list a lot longer, but i think you get the point. if you want to see the proposed changes on agents you can refer to the table in the op.tell me, how does the game promote variety when there the only real choice for combat missions is between caldari navy and corporate police force?i'm not saying that all factions should be exactly identical, i'm just saying that right now there is only one real choice if you want to get the most money out of missions: caldari. players aren't moving around, most players are balling up in caldari space.yes, of course players will happily fly their cnr's into low-sec. i tell you now what's going to happen, people will just take the next-best agents, and if you move those out as well, people will either stick to l3 agents or quit the game alltogether. people don't do l5 missions (except if they get sent to high-sec) either, despite the boost to their rewards.i'm all in favor of boosting lowsec and 0.0, don't get me wrong, but this is not accomplished through using force, it's done through providing incentives.that and i would like to see dynamic quality in agents, so that agents are a player-driven part of the game and there are incentives to move around and go to less-trafficked areas."
"more amarr agents means more players growing into pvp capable ships. i like that :)"
"charge ozone not isk"
"<signed> great idea!"
"outstanding idea!"
"thx for your support guys. keep the feedback coming!"
"we definitely need this feature to be strongly considered. give it two thumbs up!"
"sounds great, good idea."
"i like it."
"sounds like a good idea to me"
"i really like this idea."
"supported."
"no, local in 0.0 space should stay as it is now."
"there is no real sustained pvp going on in wormholes at all, its still untested for the most part. sounds like a bunch of lazy pvpers that can't be bothered to scan down wormholes to me.. 0.0 is still mostly empty witch is why you see 2-400 man alliances that have sov over 4-6 outposts and over 100 systems. there is no real reward of being in 0.0 other then sov toys and alliance controlled space, the space doesn't give you any more reward then doing lvl 4 missions do. in some regions it is even less then that =\ for all reward (chuckles) we have massively huge isk sink sov wars that waste billions of isk just for control over it.if you take local away, you heap even more risk and give nothing for reward to keep people out in 0.0. what you do in the process, is lower risk for players that do not live in 0.0 the ability to fly deep into an alliance controlled space and cause mayhem for the people that actually live out there.you also change a major way pvp is under taken. gangs of recons and bombers flying through 0.0 only being viewable to a person on grid of a gate with eyes on screen is going to know they were in system, unless of course if they want to decloak to pop someone."
"i think a lot of people are really missing the point here. chasing kill mails is all well and good and down right fun too. however, the only sources of isk being fed into the game are rat bounties and mission rewards. if you stop this from happening you will simply see the economy overheating very very fast."
"0.0 and wh space is very different."
"and low sec and high sec"
"i couldn't disagree more. the corp i fly with lives in 0.0 and we are not a part of any alliance. we don't participate in the claiming of space or playing with \"sov toys\". we do make our isk in 0.0. changing local to recent speakers mode would not hurt our isk making, we don't see a problem with ratting and being cautious. not all pilots judge reward based on isk per hour. some of us consider fun the reward of playing a game (shocking, i know). for us 0.0 space gives infinetly more reward than missions ever could. we can't stand empire and we'd probably not play if missions were the only option. for us the reward of 0.0 life is freedom and fun. freedom from the mess of standings and security status issues in empire, freedom from concord and faction police interference, and freedom to go where we please when we please."
"that might be true for you but for most in 0.0 alliances isk/hour is very important as they dont want to spend too much time on what is generally considered a boring activity that funds their fun in pvp. doing lvl 4's in empire is already more profitable than ratting and an activity you can more or less do afk or while you are playing another char. removing local in 0.0 would just mean ratting got even more boring (press scan every 5 seconds) and even less profitable. i doubt it gets more people to rat."
"no."
"a couple bolded helpful edits for you.thank you for pointing out again precisely why local needs to go in 0.0 and losec. you want risk free? run your l4's in empire.**edit**isk/hour=rofl.....mceve anyone?"
"oh you are so skilled in eve. can i be like you? perhaps with plenty of training i too can target a noob corp guy in low sec and press f1."
"how about we vote for free isk for everyone? i guess those 0.0 alliances would like that very much as the only thing i get from your post is that the isk making should be as easy as possible, preferably without risk at all, so that everything can be wasted at pvp. well... put a battle squad next to your mining op for security and check the eve guides for the location of the scan button. :)no it would finally get exiting! try ratting in low sec instead of 0.0 and you get the idea of risk. and as i live the low sec route (allergic to bubbles y'know) i can tell you that removing local there would make it actually less risky for ratters and mission runners as most pirates will find it way too exhausting to scan every system over and over on their roam."
"yea that really showed me how wrong i am. yea smart people prefer low reward and high risk over high reward and low risk right? ratting is not really worth it as it is.waste the time on a whole group of people and make even less isk/time. good idea. i'll arrange this with one of the two remaining 0.0 miners. nothing more fun that babysitting a mining op doing nothing for hours. why would i rat in low sec, its not worth the time. its not even dangerous, you just have to spend a lot of time hiding. open ombeys map or whatever and you find out where there are ratters. you can scan a system in a few seconds with a competent scanner. do it in a cov ops and they have no chance to see you unless they waste x nr of accounts as gate scouts."
"it's a game, not a job. i can be lazy plz? ktnxbai no, but seriously! bad ui is bad ui. i didn't actually know you could fit a bunch of unstacked modules. lol @ me. you could actually argue that i was lazy because i didn't figure this out.but there ya go. anyways, a good reason for implementing this: i lost my ship because i suck at staying alive in fights. so i needs to get a new. i needs to fit like 7 guns. i'z thinkning: dang man, that a lot of guns. that's a lot of \"right click fit to active shipz\". damn. meh, i'z loggin' naow. i'z doing diz tamarraow. i'z off to have some sexy time wit da wify. much sexier than fitting seven frigging guns! w00t!so yes, i endorse the implementation/use of this service."
"agreed"
"yeah, it'd be nice.not super urgent with the new fitting presets ofc."
"i'm a click and drag kinda guy, because of my work.is there/could a way to do this while grabbing a stack, and putting it in one slot, and then give you the option to fit all available openings with said stack item?that would be sweet!!either way, a step in the right direction!supported"
"this is just one of those stupid things ccp should have fixed years ago"
"i don't know how you'd do if you want to fit only 2 armor thermic hardners out of a stack of 10, it might fit all 8 into your lows then you'll have to remove 6./signed but it needs to be a bit more sophisticated.edit: actually this could be enabled for weapons only, that'll make it easier."
"makes sense"
"that it doesn't work now will be called a 'bug' in the next patch notes."
"ok, so this has been done more ways than bill clinton, but i kinda like this idea, so hear meh out. major problem with mines in the past was that they were easy to spam, unavoidable, and ridiculous in a world of lag. so accepting that lag is better and that the idea cures the other 2 major problems, here it is:proximity mines. deployable but require 100km separation from gates, and anchorables(ie pos, bubbles, etc), require 20km separation from other mines. feature: can only be seen by holding corp or alliance. similar to stealth but they emit a coded message for coordinates... ie, here i am alliance num num.can be probed out using mine detector probes which hunt for coded \"hear i am dumb ass\" messages: (see below). can be flared.attributes: similar to bombs in the sense that they can have a variety of affects but larger than bombs in those affects.build cost: 10 mil for passive effects 20 mil damage effects eacharea of effect: 12.5km. 25km diametervolume 2,000 m3effects: racial damage 25,000 explosion velocity 750m/sorneuting: 15,000 energyoreccm bursting: fried sensors for 120 seconds (2 minute target jam)orother stuffc44 mines:these mines require an active detonation via a corp member or permitted gang members. detonating member proximity 100km. require 25km seperation from other mines.cost 15/25 milvolume 150aoe 15kmeffects 10k racial dmg, 250m/s explosion velor45 seconds eccmor5k energy neutedrequire 50km range proximity from anchorables, 20km proximity from other mines.all mines: anchoring time 10 minutes with lvl 1 skill, 7.5 minutes with lvl 5.all mines are proximity based meaning keep your distance friend or foe alike. slightly larger aoe makes it possible to have grids w/o holes, but with risk while laying mines.mine layer ship could be added that is a t2 hauler type with large cargo, large hp, but incredibly slow, i mean like 25s warp times and 75 m/s pulse due to their cautious nature. they also get a reduction bonus to mine proximity where they can deploy and pick up mines... where as other ships can only deploy. all mines can be anchored and pulled up by these ships, friend or foe. foe requiring probing and flaring. bonus to faster anchoring/unanchoring on top of skills. can only be used in .4 and below.ok so how do ya find these things:new probe type mine tracker:range 500kmvolume 1scan time 10 secondsrequires 4 just like any other probe to get locations.1 probe can get active mine spots, but not precise locations2nd new tool for cov ops: flaresdunno if this would require a mod or not, but:duration, 30 minutes eachflare marks an individual mine so that fleet members can view it similar to a semi-permanent broadcast. only enemy mines that are flared can be scooped by mine layers. purpose. ok so you know an enemy fleet will be attacking said system or said pos. the goal of these is to build a grid advantage if you have the knowledge of where mines are. if fleet x is using a close range rr bs group for instance, your goal to combat them might be to draw them to a location where if they warp from their current spot, they'll land on a mine field.proximity and cost keeps these mines from being anchored on or around bubbles, pos and prevents heavy stacking.... small overlap, but typically 1 mine or maybe 2 worth of damage is all you'll get for any particular spot (hence the high damage. not to mention the fact that if the enemy can scoop them, then you're floating 20 mil out there on a prayer.the c44 mines are similar to their ancestors in the sense that you're actually trying to cause your enemy to run into a trap. but in fights where the chase is relegated to mwd'ing rather than warping, you're physically trying to lure them over a waiting bomb (hence the lower but s"
"current game mechanics already give the defender in any engagement a big advantage, bringing back mines would just serve to further discourage people from wandering around."
"i personally see huge strategic advantages and disadvantages for both of these tools. it would add a new element to the game that we just don't currently have. it could essentially benefit the well prepared in ways not before seen while creating a more dynamic role for probing and recon work. i can personally imagine prep work behind enemy lines and cyno jammers setting up both styles of mines in preparation for upcoming fights that may very well give me a previously unseen advantage in such well defended systems. i know as we all have seen, enemies have used certain preferred positions or set points on gates, safes, et all in the past that could in the future be booby trapped due to their carelessness. the only 2 spots i can see this being a bit explotable (though very obvious to avoid) are alignment points 100 off gates and stations, and moon warp in's near towers. defenders can protect themselves by launching bubbles to prevent anchoring, but attackers can very well remove those too.please note that the limited range of mine finder probes means you are required to physically leg it out on grid after launching 1 probe to allow triangulation. this means you might have to be a bit more cautious warping into an enemy fleet's safe spot so hastily. i do think that cloaked ships should be immune to proximity bomb activation's when cloaked."
"you got in before my 2nd post... i forsee this benifitting the attacker as much or more than the defender."
"you just had to go and make me spit my drink all over my screen.hellno."
"amazingly, no reason to back up your opinion, just why so adamant out of curiosity?"
"you know how to read.... go do your homework.it's called google... real handy."
"i can't really see any situation where mines as part of a static defensive structure are a sensible game mechanic. they're impossible to balance - either they get nerfed into oblivion, with things like an \"only one\" rule, or they are just far too powerful if you're allowed to build up piles of them. this role is better filled with bombs than mines, unless we feel the need to make territory more defensible than it is at present. that said, your mine idea would have interesting implications in other fields. for example, what happens when people start mining belts in enemy space? those things one-shot hulks with the stats you've given them. if your goal is to make it more plausible to engage in commerce harassment, maybe. i don't think it's practical - you just have a rorqual or something fly through first and set them all off, and don't worry about it - but if you allow for intelligent enough mines, maybe. the ability to one-shot hulks with a mine that doesn't shoot anything that isn't an exhumer would add a bit more economic warfare to the game, though also an unholy amount of whining and annoyance. i'm rambling a little, but in essence i think there's a couple nifty things you can do on paper that would probably never work in practice, and no plausible ability to have them actually function the way i think that you want them to. maybe i'm misreading you, but i don't think this is a reasonable topic to advance, because i don't think it would actually do anything worthwhile in practice.because it's drake. he does things like that. dude's a master at taking good ideas and expressing them terribly."
"so you create an opinion, and force me to research why your opinion is right? you'd excel at debate.this method has a very tactical and very unexploitable tweak to an old system. mines sucked before b/c they were inserted horribly. this one prevents people from doing all the lame things you could consider doing with them, while adding new uses to a system a lot of people have asked for. these are really just another take on bombs, similar in cost of the ship, and risk v reward. the difference being bombers are an active measure to fight with, these are a passive measure. the real irony is that i came up with the idea thinking about how to fight under an enemy jammed system, not a friendly one. systems where you may not have a pos to park at. i would personally risk and fly a ship like this far sooner than most others in game, and the cost and risk is well higher than that of other ships for a potentially good reward."
"i don't think you read the stats exactly. the point of them is to allow grid cover without massive stacking. there is no need for an only 1 rule or whatever, it's more about the oh ****, i landed on a mine field, maybe i should get out rather than mwd around on it. for bigger ships, yeah, they land on a mine field, it hurts, damn that sucked, for smaller ships, bye bye. it's about balancing haste and waste. it gives people the ability to attack hostile territory while still maybe having a small spot of strategic importance. that spot can quickly be countered by a cov ops warping in and saying oh yeah, there's mines 30km off these guys in the direction of the sun, let's warp above at 150 and nuke them eh?you're hulk situation can quickly be countered by god knows how many fixes. either he could spend 15 minutes probing out all the belts in the system for traps, or he could watch local for hostile activity. or both. i mean seriously, 1 quick scan of the belts and he's either safe until more hostiles are seen, or he just got an opportunity to loot a mine worth 20 mil. either way win win imo."
"you said before that they'd cost about the same as bombs, so where did the 20 mil number come from? bombs haven't cost that since 2007, i think. bombs cost about a million now.also, my point was to discuss other options on what they could do. harassment of miners with mines is a perfectly reasonable role, if they were to be added. i just imagine that keeping them 100km off gate means that they're more or less useless in gate fights(especially at 20 mil a shot - you need something like 100 20-km spheres to effectively cover the surface of a 100-km sphere, and for that amount of cost and effort you could just bring another dreadnought instead), and i assume that you're not really much more eager to see them used in obvious fashion elsewhere either. really, if there is any ship that can see 100% of mines, they're not going to be usable as static defences barring hitting people right as they jump/undock. people are either going to use them mid-combat as bigger bombs, depending on stats, hit people who don't suspect anything with them(e.g., hulks), or they're going to lol and ignore them. like i said above, unless ccp decides that space isn't defensible enough and wants to make it easier, i don't see a coherent and plausible role for mines."
"no, no and no. good lord your in kenzoku and you should know better. bad enough defenders already have the advantage in war, why make it that much better for them? as herschel said, this would either be way overpowered or pointless. there is really no way to balance something like this so lets just stick with bombs right now.--isaac"
"no, cost was listed seperately in the stats above, their nature i said was similar to bombs... i addressed the thing i think you confused with an edit... mine cost v reward was similar to bomber cost v reward, not bomb cost.i'm supprised at the replies about how defenders have the advantages when i've listed or could list many many uses for attackers with these things. namely blockade runners deploying mines ahead of a fight in strategic locations if not to get results, then to create caution for the enemy to slow down. hard to catch people people bouncing safes before you have the grids scouted properly. also, a list of things that couldn't/shouldn't happen:bubble + mine combos (proximity prevents it)dictor + mine combos warping into a gate with a dictor bubble up at 100 would likely either result in a lost dictor, or a stupid fleet for doing it knowing the potential effect. pos massive mine grids (cost would be ridiculous and they could be stolen)stacking (proximity)gate massive grids (proximity, cost, useless on jump in's, scoutable, avoidable)"
"ah, i wasn't reading closely enough - you said \"similar in cost of the ship\", and i missed the last part. okay, time for me to go to sleep."
"anaconda mine <- autolink it in game :)they did remove them"
"yah, i believe i addressed that in the first 3 lines of the op, i'm amazed you didn't even get that far.op edited to clarify intent of grids and mine proximities. mines would not fully overlap, you'd instead have a grid that mimics the olympic rings in coverage where there are potentially small sweat spot zones where 2 mines might overlap but unlikely.each ring signifying a mine coverage area limitation and proximity... easier to post this than drawing my own... but you can see the high coverage of 1 mine, the small coverage of overlap on grid."
"how long would you propose these mines remain anchored? indefinitely or some fixed time like 72 hours after which they become inert (and need to be scooped and redeployed).also would you see this a way to manipulate the size and shape of the grid (re: the grid-fu pdf recently released)?"
"wtb t2 mine layer/mine sweeper ship bpc, invented off of dessies bpo"
"i think indefinite would be considered since they can be scanned and removed based on their value. the only one's i'd expect to linger for long peroids of time might be around pos or safes, but with anyone able to scoop, maybe not even those."
"mines in asteroid belts.yet another reason for we ursus caveo to avoid low sec. way to incentivise lowsec."
"actually, it would be an interesting way to protect miners if they used them defensively. especially the eccm burst one."
"more ideas?"
"hello,eve has many unique aspects, trade, however, is the most unique in my opinion because it is more realistic than trading in any other game.however, this profession doesn't come without imperfections, some, in my opinion, are ridiculous.here i will talk about some of them, if others have other suggestions feel free to add them.1) 0.01 isk war!say what you want, i believe that only a ****** who wants to make isk by being online 24/24 modifying each order by 0.01 isk for the rest of his life would support it.it is unrealistic, unprofessional, and it cuts off real traders with less time available.unrealistic: irl there are rules to undercutting, you always undercut by a % of the price, not by 0.01 cent.unprofessional: if you do to a market and you see two traders trying to sell you a product and undercutting eachother by 0.01 cent every second what would you do? i bet you'd say \"you two are f**ked in the head, leave me alone\".cuts off real traders: trade is about getting products at a certain cost and selling at a certain range, but if every moron can undercut you by 0.01 isk then it's no longer a business war of who can get products cheaper, but a war of who can spend 24/24 modifying his orders every 5 minutes, it is ******ed! i can't believe how does ccp allow such stupidity in a game they call awesome.i suggest to make the limit of modifying orders 1%, this will make it more realistic, and will turn it from a war of mindless clicking into a war of calculations because everyone will stop at a certain 1% depending on their calculations.edit: also limit the number of orders of a particular item to 1 per station, this will prevent people from putting 1 item from a stack, then putting a new one every time someone under cuts them. example in a post below. /end edit.server effect: this will drop 100-300 people from jita and other trade hubs local because people will sotp at their real prices instead of stay online for the mindless click war.2) range of viewing prices.i strongly believe it is unrealistic to have people create 1000 alts to heave in every region to keep up with the prices, this is an unneccessary waste of time, and it has a negative side effect overloading the server with thousands of useless characters made only to verify prices.i suggest to add a feature to view prices in other regions, this could be skill related (e.g see 3 regions away per level).this will make it smoother for the traders, the server, and will allow traders to see where the market lacks and where it could be improved.any other suggestions?thanks."
"instating a mandatory % decrease for undercutting will either encourage screwing around with selling 1 unit of something for the allowed amount then selling the rest for the .01 isk undercutting of the original lowest sell price. something to stop market monitoring bots would be good, but i dont think this is it.i like the viewing other regions prices in the market idea. i dont know why its segmented like this but all it means is you need alts all over the place or you have to spend lots of time flying places, and the greatest effect of it is newbs overpaying for something when they could have gone two jumps into the next region and checked out that market. its just really annoying.so voting yes for #2"
"i certainly agree that there are issues with trade, however i have an alternative solution, which i think could add a whole new depth to the trade profession.essentially, storefronts. they'd be a great addition if we ever see ambulation- you get out of your ship in jita 4-4, walk down a hall, and see all sorts of stores, peddling their goods- store owners could pay extra isk to the station owner to get a prime location with extra visibility, and while people could still search the market in a similar way to how it works now, they'd have to manually walk to the appplicable storefront to pick up their item- which would also create a new mini-profession: in-station courier (pilots hire couriers to pick their items up, and deliver them to their ship).thoughts?"
"2 is plausible, but on 1 you're just being stupid. in jita you cannot compete on location, quality, brand, loyalty programs, or anything else of that nature. hence, you compete on price. if real life had the same constraints, you'd see exactly the same action. and personally, i find that my stuff moves just fine when i don't watch it - 0.01ing helps, but it's not necessary."
"ive seen that in other games. in practice its a horrible, horrible mess. prices become more based on picking the best location. you have to search for so long to get the right item.if the current market search were left intact on top of storefronts, then storefronts would get no usage at all."
"i agree with both 1 and 2. 0.01 isk wars helps traders maximize their profits, but does nothing for the end user. it promotes stagnation, and no end of overproduction will help reduce the prices.mineral prices have gone down big time, but module prices haven't. trading is already the most profitable profession in the game, so a small nerf is in order imo. i've dabbled in trade myself, and when i discovered how easy it was to make a profit, and how much profit, i decided that i should stop. it would completely remove the \"struggle\" for isk.btw, you don't have to engage in 0.01 isk wars. just go to a different location and peddle your wares and/or trade in different goods. i still feel that it is a waste of time, and doesn't really serve anybody.viewing prices in other regions would benefit more than just traders. it will help end users find the goods they want at the lowest price, if they're prepared to travel for it."
"have to agree with the others, price is the only way to compete in the market. until we can go to a certain seller(buyer) and buy(sell) our items we will have to live with this necessary evil.also, imho the majority of people in jita are not there to play the 0.01 isk game.this, however, is a clear no. what is an unnecessary waste of time for you is an entire profession to others. as in all situations of scarce information, investing time and effort into preparations should give you an advantage.regional markets provides us with a situation where someone can use price and information discrepancies to make a profit. trading shouldn't be easy and as with the jita case, i highly doubt alts, something most of us have anyway, puts any extra strain on the server. certainly not compared to the increased db-calls you would have from players pulling market data from all over the cluster at once."
"in jita you only compete with the price, i agree 100%, but the current competition with 0.01 isk is not competing on price like real traders, it's competing on who can spam 0.01 isk lower harder! that needs to be changed.as for what mazillu said, yeah it's true that they can unstack and do this with each item independently, but! then they can't do that on bigger items, and it'll be much more effort to put 1000 orders instead of just one, this will not solve it but will strongly discourage it.on bigger items which cost a few hundred mils it'll be almost gone."
"0.01 wars are legitimate tactics. sure they're annoying but you're trading wrong if it becomes that big of a deal for you. i've turned 25mil into 500mil completely afk and part time. it just requires using your brain not your fingers to make isk.what would be cool is variable quality of items, but that would require store fronts and corporate branding. essentially an entire reworking of half the game. i'd love to see that though."
"stop defending 0.01 isk war, just because it's allowed doesn't mean it's right, and doesn't mean it should be allowed forever, speed overlords were allowed too, eventually they got nerfed to a more reasonable form.i think i found the solution:in addition to limiting the modification to 1%, limit the number of orders for 1 item to 1 order per station! this way people won't spam orders unless they're going to keep hopping stations!example:i have 100 units of dragonfly, i put an order for 1 dragon fly in station nr.1, i cannot put another order of dragonfly in the same station unless the first one is sold or deleted, i can only modify the price by 1% of my order.this way people will put the orders right, 100 units if that's what i want to sell, and i can only undercut to a % which keeps it profitable for me (e.g i can drop it down 13% so i do that, if someone goes down 15% and it's no longer profitable for me i stop instead of undercut him by 0.01 isk). this is what trade is really about, profit vs cost, not who can stay online longer.i strongly believe this is a valid solution, and if it doesn't completely fix the trade it will at least dramatically improve it!something has to be done to fix this profession, it had been forgotten for too long."
"hell, not having to actually do anything, flying around, taking time to trade! what's eve coming too???? finding something cheaper elsewhere- i've got news for you, it happens rl also! it's called competition, essential for trade.being undercut is realistic...a way to avoid it is buy up all of your competition (my favourite) or list at a price that will sell quickly...although, admittedly, greed is a prime motivator in traders.there's nothing worng with being undercut...changing the amount someone can undercut isn't going to stop undercutting. setting realistic sell prices to move goods quickly helps. arithron"
"there is nothing wrong with undercuttingthere is something wrong with being undercut by 0.01 isk every 5 minutes, you want rl? i have something for you, irl you have rules for under cutting! and you're not allowed to undercut by 0.01 cent!changing the ammount of undercutting will not stop undercutting, nor is it intended to, it is only intended to make undercutting realistic and trade like.main post edited to reflect the addition to the main idea."
"i'm not defending it because it is allowed. i'm defending it because it is right. that is how a market is supposed to work. get over it."
"agree./signed."
"really? so the gas stations i see accross the street from each other that beat each other's prices by 1 cent aren't allowed to do that? i wonder how it is that it happens constantly then?let's not add silly legislation to the market."
"did you relize that 1 cent out of 1.3 euro is almost 1%?tell me you see mercedes shops competing with 70,000.63 cent, and the other with 70,000.62!edit: 0.01 isk is the dumbest possibly activity you can do in any game, i don't understand how anyone with half a brain can support it unless they're profiting only from it, without having any real trade skill or intelligence."
"bah. free market. let the price wars continue."
"down with 0.01"
"gas stations here compete on tenths of cents, so at its katrina peak, the difference between such stores was 0.07% of the price. that's close enough to nothing that it doesn't matter to anyone, except that you might as well go for the cheaper one if given the option. exactly the same thing that happens in eve, really. also, the \"no intelligence\" thing is absurd - 0.01ing doesn't make you money inherently, it's just preferable. you still need to kn ow what to trade in, and that's where the skill lies. it's like saying that pvp involves no skill, because anyone can hit f1, f2, f3, f4, f5, f6, f7, f8. well yeah, that's true, but it completely misses the point."
"a required % undercut would just be cumbersome and useless.just remove the \"lowest price always gets the sale\" rule."
"um, absolutely ****ing not. ransoming pods is part of how we pirates make a living thanks.epic fail.-k"
"spamming warp to 0 pretty much stopped people from getting podded in low sec.i like ransoming pods! it generates money, why should low-sec people have pod protection. wasting time to protect peoples pods is not something the dev team should be working on.big thumbs down!"
"i can't support this.eve has a steep learning curve, and you can't hold everyone's hand. if people are unwilling to learn how to protect themselves in low-sec, giving them this would simply make them more likely to expect free lunches. either people need to read a forum, a wiki, or stop dual-boxing and then losing their pods."
"quoted for failure and irony. proposing any \"fix\" to low sec without stating the problem is hilarious. strawman arguments, false dichotomy, ad hominem attacks - you've pulled all stops in this thread.right at this very instant there is already a way for hisec carebears to enter lowsec with absolutely no risk at all! it's called \"use a jump clone in a cheap shuttle or frigate\". the reason carebears don't go to lowsec is because there's nothing there that they're interested in that they can't get in hisec, with the added bonus of not being shot at by other players.if you take the stuff they're interested in away from hisec, they'll find something else to do in hisec, or leave the game.to get people to go to lowsec, you need to get them interested in pvp. they need to learn about the meaninglessness of death. you need to draw them to lowsec, not push them. write a blog about how much fun you're having in lowsec. offer people rewards to come and spend a few hours with you patrolling lowsec and camping gates. buy the login page advertisement for a week, asking people to come and play with you in lowsec.find some way of making lowsec interesting to people who are scared of blinky red, and you'll get people coming to lowsec to try it out. find some way of reducing the impact of fleet size on likely outcome of combat, then you'll have more people to fight in lowsec.inventing ways of making pods indestructible in lowsec will only make pvp less rewarding."
"hmmm. hmmm.this needs much chin stroking.i do get plenty of podkills in low sec is the thing.\"to what extent are all those down to lag?\" would be the question.i mean personally i've turned a bunch of blinky stuff off to optimise my client but i could well believe the pods i got were down to lag (i do fw).otoh i've also lost pods to sheer stupidity (e.g. not preparing in time to lose my ship and not having a celestial selected) and maybe some of the people i got died that way.also, we do have jumpclones available and of all the people in eve it's the \"carebears\" who have these most readily available. i ran missions on my pvp toon before it was my pvp toon and i can use a lot of stations.i can see the merit in what you're saying because the extent to which lag plays a part in this doesn't seem like a good gameplay mechanic. but then, the issue there to my mind is the lag.lolmaybe a panic button that appears when your ship is in low hull, the pressing of which primes your pod to instawarp?[ eject ]"
"i fully support not 'dumbing down' eve any further, therefor i can not support this idea.on a side: sir your attitude towards others, stinks."
"i say no, but i can see your arguement...what if instead you have at least one jump clone available from the start?"
"excellent idea!put up large warp disruption fields all over the gate, have a couple of black ops bonar ships around, and there's absolutely no way anyone is getting through that gate camp.brilliant!but foolish, as this will reduce territory warfare in nullsec down to gatecamps. pos bashing would just be cleanup work."
"yes, because nobody fits a microwarpdrive in 0.0. if you go with the idea that the module has to take some time to spool up, i don't see any reason why any cocd equipped ships shouldn't escape from that so called un-passable camp. hell, non cocd ships using standard cloaks should be able to also. personally, i think it'd be ****in great to come up on a gang of black ops bs on a gate surrounded by a bunch of bubbles, like in the scenario you suggest. that'd be an awful expensive camp to lose."
"decloaking burst sounds awesome to me, although it would require a lot of work on ccp's part as they've previously stated when a ship is cloaked in the eve engine it basically doesn't exist until something hits it. so maybe some sort of way to use this module to trigger the automatic decloak from objects.also the bonar, is a little more tactical, due to not wanting to decloak your own forces with it. but it wouldn't be too hard to use 2 bo's one with bonar and bo cyno, other with the bridge and stealth bombers next door.but does sound promising, i'd use one just to hunt those cloaking ratters all over 0.0, you know the ones that cloak in the belt just as you land and ur not sure if they are to the left or slightly up or... dammmit!!!!"
"if it can't catch cloaky ships at a gate, how exactly would it be useful? i don't like this idea because it seems that either it instantly kills the utility of cocd ships or its a useless gimmick."
"the spyra gryra supports this. you are a wonderful man."
"no we don't need decloaking. cloaking is one of the only legitimate anti-blob tactics."
"original idea"
"who said that it can't at least aid in catching cloaked ships?"
"interesting, not many players responding here. it would be good to push this up to ccp for clarification, and if this is allowed, then have something permanent and explanatory placed into evelopedia etc for all to access."
"before people jump into their flames, please consider the following:mission running results in lps and isk rewards. this strongly implies factionalism at a corporate level since lps are corporate benefits, so why not tie corporate factionalism to empire factionalism?;mission runners complain incessantly that they can't protect their salvage: this solution could provide them the means;interest in faction warfare is subsiding: this solution would help reinvigorate fw;the yarr pvp community wages a publicity campaign against mission runners / empire loyalists on the grounds they don't get eve: this solution would diffuse this criticism;traders, haulers, and other 'carebear' types who make their fortunes in empire, but who do not run missions will not be effected by this;restricting mission running gives fw the incentive it needs to keep people engaged and it offsets the benefits of simply running missions as an occupationthis solution is inherently self balancing: anyone who would exploit this requirement is equally subject to be exploited by it.clearly not everyone will agree, but before you flame for the sake of flame, demonstrate your intellect by at least posing ways to make this suggestion better, before dismissing it outright.open to discussion."
"i can go along with this so long as the faction navys will start warp scrambling"
"i see a flawdo you not need to mission to get the standing to get into fw in the first place?i disagree with your idea, however i would like to see some of these fw missions move to high sec so that more people will actually do them"
"i see your flaw too, now that you point it out. their could be a number of solutions that would solve this however - allow new epic player mission to provide you with enough faction to join a militia, remove the requirement altogether etc.i'm hoping that is one of the things that gets discussed in this thread.there were no alternative missions to do, don't you think this cause more people to actually do them?"
"one major issue with this is the fact that corps or members within alliances are unable to join faction warfare while remaining in the alliance which means you remove mission running as an option for those people which tbh is not that great not all alliances live out in 0.0 or want too. while i dont run missions often i do sometimes need a bit of isk to support my pvp lifestyle. i have other reasons why it would not work floating in the back of my head somewhere but they are a bit too fuzzy to explain.secondly mission running is often a source of income for newer players and this change would really screw up people entering the game for the first time. i actually thought of this second but i could see it being a bigger issue. also if you mean missions would be like current fw mission then thats a big no go right now they are kind of fail.out of intrest what would you do with all the missions and agents from groups that dont have an association with a faction with a factional warfare aspect and with missions for pirate corps. also it would remove the option to regain standings with various factions due to past actions against them.dont get me wrong i like the concept but i dont think it would really work. more viable idea might be reducing the rewards for missions overall by about half then giving members of factional warfare double rewards and even bounty (so up to the current level) for agents that are associated with their chosen faction."
"while the idea is interesting (not to mention contrversial), to say the least, i'm going to have to say no.i'll walk through it point by point:just because i work for a corporation doesn't mean that i agree with it's political stance 100% if anything, i think the corporate lp stores should be smaller and offer corporate specific items (or items suitable to a \"career\" with that corporation). it doesn't make any sense to me that i can get a navy issue ship from a corporation market.the other benefit you didn't cover is standings, and these matter just as much as (if not more than) lp's and isk to the corporate carebear, because they directly influence things like mining taxation and the cost of research, etc.in short, how? changing this doesn't mean people who aren't involved in fw can't scan you down and ninja salvage your wrecks.this is debatable at best. what is not debateable is that it would make a great number of non-fw players very angry.frankly, i give less than a crap about what the pirate/pvp community thinks of me and the way i play the game, and i've never made a secret of that. this is, to say the least, an unconvincing argument.yes they would. see above.i don't run missions as an occupation. i run missions to help support my occupation of grinding up rocks and making things.what you're suggesting severely hampers my ability to lower my tax levels and production costs, as well as my ability to get jump clones, without signing on for a war i don't really want to fight in.actually what this solution does is force a bunch of people who wouldn't normally participate in fw to do so if they want to enhance their actual careers (reasons listed above - taxes, jc's, etc.).i understand that a lot of people are dissatisfied with fw and ccp's lack of support/expansion of it. but trying to revitalize one aspect of the game while compromising another is not what eve is supposed to be about."
"you raise some good points.if ccp did restrict mission running to fw members, they would have to review the policy of restricting alliances from participating. you're right this is a hurdle. however, from the forums and csm discussions, i don't think ccp has considered the idea of implementing a mechanism of denoting alliances as militias so they could participate. mostly, people have accepted that it wasn't going to happen and haven't raised a fuse since.time to review that restriction.yes i agree, but this puts more onus on corporations to help develop and protect their new players. this is exactly in line with ccp's policy of giving people who mentor newbs game time. making corporations and alliances more responsible for their newer players is a good thing - given that most (but not all) now simply focus on recruiting experience players.i knew this issue was going to be raised. i think ccp is currently over-hauling mission running. they're adding new agents. i'm hoping they actually get to the under-represented factions. <can-of-worms>another they have to address is how npc pirate faction works. if you run sansha's for example, then go rat, you rat against sansha rats. so mission running for npc pirate faction actually means you can't rat. in empire, if you run missions for an empire faction, you can rat all you want because its the npc pirate factions found in the belts etc. this is not balanced. see this post.</can-of-worms>there are problems, yes. but i feel the benefits out-weigh the problems."
"i find this idea quite terrible and i'm not even a mission runner. maybe you could extend fw to include missions (that don't totally suck reward wise like they currently do) but thats about as far as i would go. removing the main means for newbies to grind their isk in a moderately secure place is a very bad idea. on the other hand implementing things like fw-missions that give less rewards then level 2s with 500 times the risk is also idiotic but i doubt your idea would solve these problems. i definitely would not have migrated to 0.0 and gotten into pvp if i didn't have a secure financial back-end in empire that i could fall back to if everything went down the drain. and this back-end was missions for a long time. it gave me the psychological security i needed to start risking large sums of isk in pvp because i knew i had something to fall back on even if we lost our outpost with all my assets in it etc. remove this option and you're not gonna see more people doing pvp.. just more people whining and more people mining because that would be the only semi-afk way to earn isk in highsec if you removed missions. of course a veteran player would probably be able to still earn his isk with missions even if they were a part of fw but eve is full of newbies... just take a look at the help channel, remember how overwhelming it was when you started out and then think if you really want to remove the pretty much only viable way to earn isk in empire as a noob (aside from mining but that also requires skills that are totally useless for everything except mining - at least a mission runner will have the basics to start pvp). all in all i find your idea dismal and totally removed from the reality of eve and especially far removed from the reality of eve for a new player."
"angry poster, if this idea was restricted to level 4 missions would you complain so adamantly against it?lets say that this idea was implement, but new players were still able to grind for isk is the idea still terrible in your mind?as far as i can see your only criticism is the need to protect new players, and i agree with that - but i can foresee ways to protect new ideas while still making mission running subject to participation in fw."
"i seem to remember ccp stating that alliances were not allowed due to technical/programming issues, not policy restrictions. although they may now have a better idea of how to address thet than they did at the time.having been in a corp that recruited mostly new players and been stuck as the person dealing with them most of the time.. mentoring is a lot easier said than done in a game world. key word here is \"game\" many new players dislike intensely being told how to play as a lot of ppl play games to get away from that kind of thing.. (bosses, spouses, parents.. etc). if you make fw necessary to mission.. corps will quit taking newbs almost completely as the corps would have to be the ones replacing lost ships. new players would have almost no option to make isk withput corp hopping constantly to npc corps so they could at least mine without being a free target all the time.agreed that there are issues there.sorry, i dont agree. if i feel like pvp, i'll accept a mission that takes me to lowsec (contrary to popular belief i do occasionally do this). i mostly play to relax, not for pvp excitement. i also have enough rl distractions in the form of a wife and child that i cant afford to be pvp active all the time, whereas with current missions, if i have to i can usually step away for a few minutes and not get my ship blown up, let alone podded. this suggestion in all honesty would probably destroy the casual playerbase, so no."
"i'm not so worried about the really new players (a few weeks old). they can do tutorial missions in highsec and you also never suggested to move these missions to lowsec. however, grinding isk is already very time consuming (especially for people that don't know the game well) so making it even harder and more of pain is not something i would agree with. if you want a counter-solution then i'd say maintain the current \"baseline\" (level 4s) and improve the rewards for everything that's more risky. fw-missions (being very high risk and usually intended for groups) should yield huge rewards compared to highsec. as should level 5s and 0.0 missions or ratting etc. i agree with you that level 4s are too lucrative compared to other professions but not because level 4s pay too much but simply because everything else pays to little if you factor in risk and effort. and since pvp costs isk i think it's a bad idea to make people even more worried about losing their ships and thereby making the threshold to get into pvp even higher then it already is. leave level 4s alone but boost level 5s, fw-missions, lowsec-professions and 0.0-professions so they yield as much as level 4s + a bit more depending on risk and effort (which they already do but not by enough - especially not for newer people). maybe then people would actually want to do the more risky things because they hope for a better reward. currently anyone with half a brain will try out a few other ways to make isk, get disappointed (or even ganked) and then go back to level 4s because you can run them afk.edit: personally i don't really give a damn. if i need isk then i've got lush 0.0 space waiting for me but if i think back 3 or 4 years and try to imagine how it would have been if i couldn't have earned isk with level4s then i'm not sure i'd have had as much fun as i did."
"i agree overall suggestion in terms of reforming ingame income.however,i'm not convinced (yet) that tying mission running to involvement in faction wf would slow things down. firstly, there are endless debates about where the higher level missions should be run, left in empire, more in low sec, completely in 0.0. this suggestion would make that completely irrelevant. with respect to the perception this suggestion results in additional risk - that's simply not entirely true.if you currently are in a mission running corp, your corp can be war-dec'd. you now have the same level of risk as someone engaged in fw except the only one who can take on your 'enemies' are those involved directly with your corp/alliance. as a member of a faction your allies can take on the threat. you could argue that in fact risk has been more even distributed.just as there are players who opt in to pvp, or other who opt to mine, there are players who opt to participate in fw but don't participate in the fleet engagements. the same would be no difference here.i agree that in terms of income, nothing compares to mission running. it is the defacto standard - and i am not suggesting that be tinkered with. however with respect to the so-called 'risk vs reward' ratio, at some point when a player has x number of skill points, the risk posed by mission running is far too low compared to the reward. if we keep the reward at par, and more evenly distribute the risk in terms of game play (add non-mission specific risks), while adding at the same time, game play elements to off-set the risks (such as an entire cadre of allies) this contributes balance.in terms of the storyline - why shouldn't the factions take an interest in someone who does missions for the caldari navy? if the storyline logic were applied to the gameplay, i would think the gallente faction would have issues with someone furthering the goals of the caldari navy.if such a change doesn't actually make it harder to incur revenue, and infact makes protecting missions easier - this is a bonus is it not?what mechanism is there currently to protect all of the rewards a mission has to offer?"
"corporations would become nothing but mining, ratting, and building stuff. just let individuals join fw rather than having to leave a corp/alliance. i'd probably jump in occasionally if that was an option. it'd even be a fun weekend corp activity. treat it like an r&d agent. go talk to them, say \"i would like to fight for your cause\", then boom, you're off to the races as long as you're signed up. just meet with the agent 24 or more hours later to quit when you've had your fill.having to leave the corporation to try it out was a deal breaker for me."
"ya, me too, and i couldn't agree more.i wish there was actually more dialogue on how to include alliances in fw, or even for ccp to relook at the issue."
"i think we both want the same thing... income should scale with risk and effort which it doesn't currently. of course if you've already got you ships fitted and know eve well then you can earn just as much isk elsewhere but i agree that the motivation to find and exploit these ways of making isk is not that huge. i think it's basically a mentality question: you would prefer to increase risk for mission runners thereby bringing that profession in line with the others. i on the other hand want to increase income of everything else so it's in line with mission running. the reason why i prefer my way is because i think earning isk is usually quite boring (that's why people fly missions afk) and thus should not be made even more boring. of course eve is also an economy simulation but it is a pvp game and i personally don't see the point in making it harder to get into pvp. maybe it's different nowadays (i haven't tried to earn my isk in highsec for quite some time - barring rnd agents) but at least when i started getting interested in pvp a major factor was \"how much isk (= grinding-time) will i lose if i get killed\". the more grinding time it is the less likely i would be to decide to start pvping. now of course i'm totally addicted to pvp so i'd spend my last isk for my hobby but that wasn't the case when i started out... back then everything was complicated, i made tons of (costly) mistakes and was damn glad that i could go back to pire and grind back what i had lost relatively quickly). i do agree with you that maybe some missions (the really worthwhile ones) should be restricted to fw-people or be in lowsec/0.0 but that doesn't mean i'd totally nerf level 4s (which is what it would be if they were only runnable as an fw-member - a huge nerf).edit: and yes, i know i'm a carebear (or at least started out as one)."
"this is just as ill-thought out and stupid as the people that want all the missions moved to low-sec.\"oh hey fw is as good as dead due to bad game design, let's force the rest of the people to play it!\""
"i guess this is a good way of looking it, a good summary. the increased risk would be that you are not entirely safe from the threat posed by factions - i assess this as relatively low, but agree its there.the reward is that your mission is exactly that - yours. ccp has made it clear that abusing inter-faction relationships is a no-no. so your faction mates won't salvage your mission. your faction enemies can, but you can defend the mission then.also, the difference between high-sec and low sec mission running is blurred because you are already under a somewhat controlled level of risk posed by the faction participation itself.with respect to increasing income - ccp wants more people to work towards pvp. there is no doubt the limiting factor is replacement cost. lps and mission rewards should be raised where additional risk is assumed. what's in the players interest, is ultimately enough income to be able to participate in pvp without worrying about replacement costs (too much).what's in the economies interests, and i suppose ccp's is the destruction of more ships. i am trying to raise both of these things, in some sense, in this proposal. i don't buy that its one or the other. everyone is ultimately a carebear in some sense. not everyone admits to it. i don't know anybody (save perhaps some of the guys in burn eden) who don't support themselves in carebear ways - and even in burn eden's case, i'm certain they have all carebearing alts. your first issue -the need to protect the new player is ultimately the one that needs the most thought. i think this proposal reduces the level at which people are introduced to pvp in the sense that everyone wants to run missions.i hope we can get other perspectives on this."
"that's harsh ankhesentapemkah.why is it stupid in your opinion?"
"actually it's a decent idea but i see trouble with alliance members, that would be my biggest problem with it. also i would only do it for lvl4/5 missions, below that its too harsh on newbies.this would solve the \"i'm in a npc corp, you can't touch me\" issue in some way. not perfect but better than current situation."
"it's always stupid to compound bad design with a bad fix.frankly, until you fix what's actually wrong with fw, trying to entice more people into playing it, isn't going to work, and forcing them to play in it is just going to make them angry.i think once you fix what's actually wrong with fw you'll find more people participate without needing to be attracted.it's like painting car that doesn't run. yeah it's nice and shiny, but it's still a piece of crap where it counts."
"i agree with the angry poster.stop trying to make things \"better\" by forcing people to do this or that.as he said, some sort of secure income cushion and enough people will start to risk their assets in one way or another sooner or later = +- fun for all."
"actually, its not their salvage. ccp have been clear about this, repeatedly. mission runners are free to protect their salvage- fit a ship to mission run and salvage, but capable of tanking and warping under pvp action. alternatively, mission run with somebody (novel eh?)you are suprised that fw is losing players? some of the higher ranked players love it- they can totally avoid the warfare part of the whole deal, escalate up the ranks and get some self-gratification via e-w*****g. after a while, for most players, it gets a little repetitive...something akin to mission-running. unsuprising really, considering that neither are actually that dynamic.of course, players have a choice when they get to this feeling of repetitiveness....move out of empire, join a decent corp and start to enjoy the dynamic, vibrant and fun areas known as the sandbox. you've cut your teeth doing missions and fw- now move out and use them!arithron"
"agreed - whats your proposal to fix what's wrong with fw?my proposal is that fw has not enough financial incentive. what's proposed above provides that incentive."
"i already addressed what you proposed in your op several posts ago. the idea you have will have a larger impact on a wider variety of people than i think you appreciate.as for fixing what's wrong with fw, i honestly don't know how - or at this point if it's even feasible to fix what they have, or if they should just scrap it and start over.however, i do know that you don't shoot yourself in the foot to cure your cold."
"i hate it when people complain about this. i wouldn't mind seeing people get flagged for it but i don't care if people take the stuff either way as i regularly tell salvage ninja's they can help themselves to my cargo can's as well. not like i would actually pose a threat to a fast mover with arty anyways. if the rules say its fair game though then its fair came. i would just rather it have the same risk as can flipping because it was a whiny threadnaught that got flagging for can flipping installed by miners years ago anyways and jet can mining is now seriously outdated as a tactic compared to back then.as for your idea though i think all it would do is drive a lot of people out of the game because they can't casually play anymore. i would likely be one of them."
"the suggestion makes no sense at all.why would a gallente trade corporation, caldari investment corporation or amarr agricultural corporation want to issue curier jobs to people, who are wartargets?it barely makes sense for the faction navy corporations. for everything else it is on the borderline of not making sense and being utterly stupid.last but not least: a huge portion of eve players does not want regular pvp as standard, or isn't able to handle them. that is what highsec is for. take it away and a lot of players will wander off, resulting in financial losses for ccp.by the way: there is not only \"carebears\" in highsec. there is also newbies. new players who do not consider it a lot of fun to get ganked back to where they started on a daily basis. new player experience would go down the suckdrain even more than it already is."
"gotta support my own thread."
"i always hear that eve is a sandbox, play it your way, then i see the threads that say, people arent playing they way i want them to, ccp nerf them. you can't force people to go to lowsec so pirate blobs can intagank them and you cant force people fw so faction fleet blobs can instagank them. if you want people to do lowsec or faction war give them an actual reason, but don't expect them to do something because you want easy ganks which is what it is, it always comes down to pvp tough guys wanting an easier way to gank people in mission fits instead of fighting other pvpers, some real risk there."
"as far as i know nobody in the csm and none of all the candidates ever spoke about sized rigs.they should be a high priority imo.like we have sized version for almost every module (1mn mwd, 10mn mwd, 100mn mwd for example) we should have sized rigs.what the csm think about this?"
"the only modules that have 'sizes' are ones that have attributes that must vary to be meaningful on large ships without being overpowered on small ships. for example, guns are sized because large guns (a) do more damage while (b) can't fit on small ships. similarly with shield boosters and armor repairers. other modules have a fixed effect regardless of the ship that they are on (like tackle or ew), or have a built in scaling based on a percent improvement they grant (like damage mods or hardeners).rigs all fall into that final category, giving a bonus that scales regardless of ship type. this means that without any extra code, speed/agility rigs are more effective on small ships, and rigs relating to offense/defense are more effective on large ships. all of which seems like a good plan to me.so what do you see as needing to be changed in this arrangement?"
"fwiw, all missile launchers, except citadel launchers, only require missile launcher operation 1 to fit. this is, as herschel correctly points out, because you can fit them with defenders. oddly enough, citadel launchers also fire defenders and are as such really the only launcher with the op's suggested logical behaviour.now defenders themselves have missile launcher operation 2 as a prerequisite, but you can still, in theory, load up your torp raven with defenders without having the skills to fire any type of regular missiles. i'm sure at some point the devs had a thought behind this (or not), but it may be time for a change."
"reasonable"
"the missile skill tree is entirely different.if you brought it into line with guns would you then need rockets v to use hams and hams 5 to use torps?"
"but then you should also have have small launcher operation for rockets&lights, medium launcher operation, allowing to use assults,hams and hmls etc. instead of separate skills"
"fully supported."
"well the reason behind this idea is that majesta couldn't get the same standings like their bigger brothers in the nc, so they couldn't support their allies outside of the north without the risk of getting shot by \"blues\", so instead of replacing their diplomat they try to change the rules so that they can roam around outside of the vale of silent. ergo, i'm against this \"failsafe\" for diplomats"
"if suicide ganking is the biggest problem, then its also the easiest fix....navy doesn't spawn when you come in.....but if you show aggression, the navy (not concord) spawns to defend the target. hell, it can even provide logistics for the target/s. problem solved."
"suicide ganking shouldn't be that big of a problem since the outlaw can be attacked by anyone at any time. its not like you could just sit on a gate waiting for a target, you would get killed fairly easily since you are rocking a disposable fit and not a real pvp-setup."
"supported. let players take some responsibility for their defence, not npcs.suicide-ganking in highsec by outlaws is trivial right now anyway. jump in destroyer gang, warp to scout, kill hulk. so it can hardly be made any easier. in any case, any outlaw gang sitting on a gate waiting to suicide-gank a hauler would be vulnerable to attack themselves - and they couldn't use rr.this will encourage pvp. outlaws get easier logistics, encouraging more people to move to lowsec. highsec pvpers such as mercs get more targets. highsec dwellers interested in pvp find it easier to find targets. everyone wins."
"actually it seems a good idea. if you read carefully, you will notice that it is possible to anchor just a few planetary pos per system. that means, you are going to have just a few pos holding the system. i saw systems in 0.0 with over 30 large death star pos holding sovereignty.imagine how tedious it is to take 20-30 pos down. you must have a huge dread fleet to make it possible (blobbing), lots of training time wasted just to shoot a pos, and no real pvp action here... monotonouson the other hand, if a small alliance wants to hold an outpost, it should anchor lots of pos to make it as most boring as possible for the attackers to take the sovereignty of that system. imagine how expensive and how boring it is to keep something like 20-30 death star pos fueled.attackers choose the attack time. it is a good advantage. successful attacks result in 20-30 pos on reinforced mode. imagine how boring it is to rep those 20-30 pos. this is not what i am looking for in eve.what do we expect from 0.0? pvp action fleets composed of battleships/cruisers/frigates/support class ships firing each other or just lots of boring capitals shooting at lots of boring poss? do you like the frequent alliance call for arms just for watching lots of dreads taking pos down? no waylet's check his proposal carefully: the new deflection module is not even limiting the amount of dps the planetary pos can take. if you still want to fire with 50 dreads, go on, its up to you. if your alliance/corp has such amount of dreads it is perfectly normal to loose a few of them if u want to take the planetary pos down in a few minutes. we can conclude this due to the fact that the module's return fire capacity depends exclusively on the number of dreads attacking the pos (please correct me if i am wrong about the module's main idea)i believe that a blobbing attack is such a big problem for a system holder in the same way that pos spamming is a pain in the @$$ for the attackers. if you want to decrease pos spamming, blobbing must be balanced too.and finally, i really don't like the idea of industrial stuff be related to sovereignty stuff. this leads to lots of empty 0.0 moons, wasted space. some pos holding system sovereignty produce moon reactions just to make some isk to pay the fuel cost of that lots of pos. at the end, there will be no profit at all for moon reactions. another nice industrial activity in eve is being lost, and just mainly because of the boring mechanics of pos warfare."
"logo submission appears to be getting looked at i got a petition response that looked at least somewhat promising"
"just say your going to throw rocks...at the op.. just like i did.:)that wasn't so hard now was it?^_^;"
"let's balance \"isaac starstriker\""
"you first.... and your dozens of alts too."
"let me get this straight.... your saying its overpowered... yet there's not enough to go around... and your saying its expensive... your also saying that the cycles should be decreased...are you drunk?seriously.... i suggest you take a step back.. and rethink this before you get tro.... nevermind.:o)"
"so you have an item with only one source, and it is valuable. your solution, to make it less valuable, is to make it scarcer?this is why they need to teach economics in high school."
"they do, but he was homeschooled, by the gardener."
"nice necro. also the virgins are a lie, you only get 77 raisins. ten million units of 77 raisins that you can resell for a fortune.suicide ganking is awesome and the tears are well worth it. carry less crap in your ships if you dont want to get shot. i got shot in a hauler once, and it cost them their ship because i fit shield extenders and passive hardeners."
"ability to remotly destroying a clone no more needed.the old csm was working on this, they said that ccp was going to put this in the 'to do list' or something like that, but we never received any update.the original thread is too old and got locked.what cms think to do about this?"
"you realise it's been almost a month since the last csm 2 meeting? many, many, topics have been raised in that time."
"nope, deadline for the issues is 24h before the meeting. issues have to be discussed on the forums for 7 days tho, as per csm rules."
"oh. oops. i misread."
"as far as i know nobody in the csm and none of all the candidates ever spoke about sized rigs.they should be a high priority imo.like we have sized version for almost every module (1mn mwd, 10mn mwd, 100mn mwd for example) we should have sized rigs.what the csm think about this?"
"the only modules that have 'sizes' are ones that have attributes that must vary to be meaningful on large ships without being overpowered on small ships. for example, guns are sized because large guns (a) do more damage while (b) can't fit on small ships. similarly with shield boosters and armor repairers. other modules have a fixed effect regardless of the ship that they are on (like tackle or ew), or have a built in scaling based on a percent improvement they grant (like damage mods or hardeners).rigs all fall into that final category, giving a bonus that scales regardless of ship type. this means that without any extra code, speed/agility rigs are more effective on small ships, and rigs relating to offense/defense are more effective on large ships. all of which seems like a good plan to me.so what do you see as needing to be changed in this arrangement?"
"at least sarah had the dirty **** librarian thing going for her....."
"belated congratz ozzie on another term....now we just need to figure out how to smuggle you into the council for a 3rd term"
"thing is, as soon as a neutral has remote repped, they become a part of the fight- once they've started repping, they're in the exact same position as if they had been remote-repping in corp- the only differences between in and out of corp repping are the element of surprise, and that the aggro only lasts for 15 minutes. the solution to the problem that you're talking about would be to only allow people to remote rep corp/alliance mates- no more neutral reps-- but that would do nothing more than ruin a perfectly valid tactic imo."
"and yet, you still haven't clarified as to why neutral rep shouldn't be a valid tactic. frustrating when it's used against you, sure- but unfair? everyone has the same opportunity to use neutral reps, so what makes it wrong?"
"what makes it wrong is that a toon can intervene and sway the tide of a battle and dock up or jump through a gate anytime they get aggressed (shot at) for helping out.not having to wait the normal cool down period of 1 minute to dock up or activate the gate anyone else would that causes the loss of a ship.if you want to be part of the battle .. now you're being held accountable for 1 minute ... and run the risk of losing your ship ... as it stands now .. nothing less than a huge blob will assure that ... get rid of small gang pvp? you're crazy .. you're encouraging the blob ..."
"wut?"
"maybe it is very hard for you to implement the 'tactic' that you put all your repper alts in an npc corp, but for everyone else it is just lame.to follow your logic, lets change it that as soon as you fire on a wartarget, everyone is allowed to shoot you, doesnt matter if they are at war or not. so you can just have 30 people out of corp, you fire on one bait from the wartargets, and they all shoot you. would be the same idea as we have now with logistics."
"tortugan, the element of surprise only works once or twice; it is an aspect of alt fighting generally but not the most valuable aspect of neutral rr in empire. the most advantageous thing about it is you can deploy potentially infinite number of fight-turning ships directly onto the field without your opponent being able to do anything to them until they turn said fight, whereupon they can instantly dock/jump and then proceed to undock/jump back and do it again.as to the counter tactics, yes they're out there and my corp has had to use them against repo and you, among others. we've also refined and used tactics to kill logoffski freighters. just because there's a work-around counter for game breaking mechanics doesnt mean those mechanics shouldn't be addressed. if a corp/player feels they/he cant survive without third part help all the time, that's their problem."
"yes i agree they should add this into the game./signed"
"too bad /signed"
"i think it would be even more awesome if you could set a special wallet division where all the isk from that \"rightclick -> give money\" option goes to. makes running lotterys or stuff like that easier, as everything is seperated from your regular transactions"
"support completely, if it nerfed scammers would have the benefit of not having as many spams in the channels."
"i approve of this product and or service, and would like to subscribe to its newsletter."
"/signed"
"i would love this, definitely supported."
"currently, you can only detect probes via your directional scanner if you click your overview settings off. and even this is problematic at best.i would like to see probes added to the overview options, sooner rather than later so that i can click a little check-mark and create a more specific overview tab.csm, please support this and bring it up to ccp.~~~yes, this is because i am a low-sec mission runner. no, my ship was not violenced. almost, though."
"just signing this."
"agreed.+1oh and .../signed."
"/signed."
"signed."
"i already brought it up during the post-apocrypha ccp/csm meeting, the minutes of which can be found here:"
"it's a horrible design decision. ccp wants us to mission in low-security and yet wants to make it as difficult for us to do as possible for hardly little extra rewards?constantly, i hear about *watching your directional scanner* from low-security mission supporters and yet it's tedious when the information you need gets lost within all the debris and trash floating around.i think the csm needs to press this issue together on ccp.~~~i'd like to get more support for this thread and idea. please support this."
"i support this./signed."
"yes please would make a world of difference in those littered systems."
"yes please."
"i personally find level 4s equally boring. i'd actually rather mine, since at least when mining, you can stop when you get bored, whereas with missions, you have to keep going until the mission is done.i agree that mining needs to be more interesting and preferably more profitable also. but i'd settle for more interesting."
"this."
"signed maybe tech 3 (aka custom able drones)"
"supported!"
"absolutely supported."
"wrong, in any case the problem you are portraying is already happening. mediocre players that know you can customize the overview or download overview profiles made by \"elite pvpers\" is likely to defeat an excellent pvper who for some reason did not know you could even move the overview window. also in wow there are some good pvp'ers that don't feel the need to use any addons at all, and in the tournaments (rl cash prizes in those) you are not allowed to use addons either."
"if ccp can do this without using a lot of dev time, then i'm for it. it'd be a great help, especially for players with disabilities. my main concern is with ccp's record of quality control, they've proven that they're not exactly competent at catching major bugs (excuse me, features), and i'd hate to have them break the game over something that i view as fairly minor. the potential to help the game is there, though. as long as some sort of improvement to the ui is made, whether ccp or the eve community makes it, i'm for it."
"...instead you must learn present eve interface.and, did i understand you correctly in that you're saying that due to your personal laziness and uncertainty all other players (including noobs) must eternaly suffer from unfinished and buggy ui, without any ability to fix it by themselves?and how do you think will that happen?ui mods is real and practical way for this, but all you saying instead of them is just your desires without any light on how they can become reality.dream more."
"i wonder who will create the add-on of opengl."
"wis to be installed yesterday! can we also get a yarr button to use in station so i can listen to my own echo in my empty low sec station? :)wis development should continue!"
"i think the point has been made..... plenty of people are very much interested in old features more then new features.even when i phrased the question in such a antagonistic way...."
"most definitely not supported. i speak for myself, as well as many other eve players with whom i associate and have spoken with at length about ambulation, your assertion that nobody wants ambulation is false. personally, i believe ambulation will add sorely needed dimensionality to the game. if implemented well, ambulation could potentially broaden the player base to include not only more, new players (good for everyone because noobs are the life-blood of an mmo), but more diverse players as well. for example, one of the reasons so few females play eve is because they don't empathize as easily with an internet spaceship as males do. they like faces, gestures, and manipulating environments--collecting and creating things. just because you don't want to play in ambulation, that doesn't mean other people don't either."
"news to me, from all the statements i've read from ccp on fw it would seem that zero development is scheduled.sounds like they did it for giggles and are specifically saying that they'd never revisit it, improve it, or fix it.i can't understand how ccp could imagine that fw could be left the way it is and users would accept that.1. ccp clarify your position on fw, is it part of the game or not?2. if it isn't part of the game.... pull your head outta your ass!"
"here is the csm helping us :-)"
"in all honesty i dont think ccp wil even listen. it has been over 5 months and they havnt said a single word to re assure us they are looking into the problem. they seem to have no care for theyre customer base and a lack of understanding of problems. the jump bug problem was resolved instanly, and they ignored my petition completely."
"another month, and still no official word. while this issue may or may not have been discussed during the last meeting of csm#2 last month, results of that meeting (or even hints as to what was discussed) have yet to be released."
"question is do we need t2 capital modules? i think yes. ccp gives love to newbies but what is here for us old wolfs from 00? to be honest eve have lot of capital pilots. why are capital modules different from others? i personally want t2 lasers for mine revelation. what is here to learn after 50m sp? new race, new guns, new ships... but i want mine ships, mine guns, mine race. i want them to be better. and again spent moths learning something useful. why we must have crappy t1 modules on 3+ billion ships? i know most capital pilots have these skill on lvl5 already, what will happen to t1 modules will someone buy them? yes they will, we know how t2 production works. if you don't want to give us t2 modules, give us variations like small/med/large stuff have. and yes, we want t2 fighters.ccp please give love to xl!positivesnew skillsnew itemsworthy spend spnew invention/productionnegativesnone"
"reserved."
"couldn't you have chosen any other character to post this with, considering the maturity of eve's population only a minority will be able to get beyond the name of the character the thread was made with ...."
"are you ready to train large specializations to 5 for it?"
"i kill to many pilots on other accounts"
"i already have large specialization on 5 and i want learn capital specialization to 5"
"tech 2 fighters?every mothership needs them :p"
"given the nature of capital warfare, i'm not at all convinced that giving people the option to further upgrade their capital modules is necessary or wise. it's just a way of making things more expensive and take up more sp to no real end."
"the second stupidest thing in eve if outposts and npc \"stations\" can let you dock via standings why can't \"player owned stations\".also sick of eve not registering my pos password and sends me flying 0.02au away from the pos in my battleship."
"supporting this.more ammar agents, more soe agents, less caldari agents ffs."
"totally agree, supported."
"as a mission runner i support this topic.i want a more equal distribution of agents among the empires.a more equal distribution of the agents geographically within the whole of high sec.and i would like to see the higher quality agents be seeded further away from trade hubs like jita. if you want a great agent it should have the drawn back of being in the middle of freaking nowhereville a long ways away from the rest of society. preferebly bordering low sec as a further deterrent to the massive mission hubs."
"i like your solutions amarrsuit."
"option 1 works for me. but, like others have said, i can see an owner getting everyone used to using it then jacking up the price in ozone/isk. just restrict access to the fuel section like some corp hangar tabs are restricted--i.e. read only. i would be more than willing to bring along ozone if/when needed to shorten my route. some corps just aren't big enough to have a dedicated group of players/alts willing to fly around all day everyday keeping the bridges fueled. it would help out all around. if not a pay to use system, then at least allow any alliance member coming along with fuel to put it in."
"you got my vote, however why can't we just have the jb fuel in are cargo hold and have it taken out from their so we would not have to worry about anyone keeping them fueled...."
"good idea"
"i like the first idea, so simple too"
"this"
"is it possible to setup a jb as you would a corp hangar tax tab, allowing everyone/anyone to put stuff in, while only allowing certain people to take stuff out? paying isk would be a decent idea, as long as it would guarantee that the jb would be fueled at all times, which it won't. then there's the issue with price gouging. i would support the option that i previously stated, but i guess anything would be better than the current setup."
"/signedp.s. would be good to fix ankh-feature as well (capturing enemy plexes while enemy npc are ignoring you due high standing)"
"truth hurts.blob=boring.no local=dynamic game.so how would you feel if it was simply a local count-no further info.thats a fair compromise. the you will still have time to run and hide every time local spikes +1."
"no local works in wormholes. not 0.0. if one of your station systems has noone logged in someone can bring in a 500 man fleet and kill all poses without even making abludge on the mapno"
"and our identity stays unknown. i like that. (still a total local nerf is the only good nerf )ninja edit:...and solves this too."
"good idea/signed"
"supported"
"makes you wonder why this doesn't exist already. yes please!"
"and i want t2 tractor"
"the easyest change is to only let people modify their orders once an hour."
"maybe in some government-controlled, command economies that might be true, but in free economies gas stations and grocery stores do it all the time.as a customer, my reaction is to shop at the one that saves me money on the stuff i'm buying.as a manufacturer and trader, why on earth, new eden, or anywhere else in the vast multiverse of our collective imaginations would i give up the potential profit to be made by pricing my goods just barely low enough to beat my competitor? unlike real life, eve doesn't allow us to compete on the quality of worksmanship, the friendliness of our customer service, or the cleanliness of the store's restrooms. price is our only point of competition in the market so we compete intensely on price.trying to force manufacturers and traders to give up the profit made by barely undercutting their competition is like asking them to go down the list of pilots in local and distribute free isk to everyone."
"presumably to reward people who put the effort into it and penalize people who don't.the market is also pvp.the most efficient route i can come up with to check prices in the regions i service is 27 jumps. i'm willing to make a 27 jump, multi-waypoint trip periodically to spot bargins and opportunities. i make a profit from it.those who aren't willing to leave their mission system when they need something pay me to do it for them.i'm not just selling them ammo, modules, drones, and ships -- i'm selling them time. time to do the part of the game they think is fun instead of part of the game they think is too much trouble to bother with.here's a thought though -- i'll support an easy button for the market if, in return, i can be immune to non-consensual pvp."
"can i have the ability to afk an iteron through 50 jumps of low-sec and dock and undock from 100 stations with complete immunity from pirates?it would make as much sense."
"not in a free country.in a free country a business owner can set his/her prices at whatever level he/she feels appropriate.he/she can change prices as often as he/she feels appropriate.the only thing a business owner in a free country cannot do is defraud his/her customers by advertising one price but charging a different one.in eve, even that fraud is legal."
"to be honest, i don't understand how you justify this as a legitimate problem. i have a lot of orders going at once on the jita market. sometimes i can go to sleep and wake up with a huge wallet, sometimes i wake up and nothing has moved because i was .01 undercut on orders, which were in turn .01 undercut, and so on for eight hours until my orders are now 26th down the line.the above paragraph is for empathy - to show that i know what you're talking about, to admit that i make money off the market, but i also share you pain.here is what i feel to be the problem with your argument. if i watch my orders, check them constantly and update them when necessary, i will increase my chances of making lots of money on them. i even have a whole skill set i can train so i can do this when im not even in the system. in other words, the more time and skill i dedicate to this profession, the more money i make from it.i like to supplement this with mining on the side. i have to train skills to be good at this, and dedicate time to mining to make money from it. i would like a ship that fits fifty strips, has a cargo hold of 27,500 and the ability to command a fleet of drones. then i could make a lot of money without the need to invest much time (though imagine the skills required!) but no one is going to put that ship into the game for me, because \"i don't want to expend effort\" is not a good enough reason.and if i found myself doing a profession and thinking \"this is to hard, i don't have the time to spend on this to make the big cash i'm expecting,\" to the point that i was frustrated, i would leave the profession to those that do have the inclination to do it well, and find another one.do not bring realism into this - surely you can see it's absurdity. other than the fact that it's not true (there is no world-wide law preventing anything, let alone .01 undercutting), then why should it be applied just to this problem? i would move that faction standing be removed from the game entirely - imagine if i walked into my local ore refinery and they refused to refine all my ore properly because they just don't like me that much! it's frustrating as all hell. but surely you can see that changing one profession on the basis of \"i don't have the time to do it this way,\" would just be unfair to those that do invest the time. trading in eve is what it is, and should not be judged on any real world model of trading that you can either recollect or imagine."
"all these replies go into 3 categories:1- no, let 0.01 go on2- it is absurd but i sell only big stuff with little 0.01 competition so it doesn't affect me3- yeah you'r right.for those of number 2, let me get this right, you're saying that i should trade only the big stuff because there is less 0.01 isk dumbness on it? it's like saying: yeah there is a problem, just avoid it instead of try to solve it.and you let the problem be just because you trade in big stuff and it doesn't affect you? that's quite mature and responsible isn't it!well, i said what i have to say, i didn't read a single argument which justifies 0.01 isk other than \"let it be\" or \"i am free to do what i want\".if you support this idea pls post that, if you don't then post that, but don't try to convince anyone that 0.01 isk is not a ******ed problem. speed was ridiculous, 0.01 is a hundred times more ridiculous, speed was nerfed, trade still needs to be fixed.whoever is counting the supports, there are more support replies than counted, thanks./photon out."
"i am a trader and i would like to see a few improvements on the market:1) i find it unnatural to split up markets in regions as it reduces/limits the dynamic in the border zones. instead the market should be limited to jumps (acording to player skills as of now) in any direction/regions instead of jumps in the same region. that would make life easier for traders, make it more realistic and it should give a more fair price in all regions. i cannot use the price for an item 25 jumps away for anything but i would be very interested to know the price in my neighbour region, 1 jump away.2) all items should be possible to trade on the normal market. fx. gistii modules cannot be traded on the market - why!? naturally special items as fitted ships and researched blueprints etc. should still be contracted but i see no reason why the \"normal\" faction/officer stuff only can be traded on contracts?3) a minor thing is that i want to be able to sort the market orders in my own way. as of now i can only sort by one thing - fx. location. but i really want to sort by location and then price decreasing. the way it works now (always date as second) is not logical and you have to pay close attention when checking out prices.these few things i think could make the market much better in eve."
"this i agree with. it would be good to be able buy/sell any \"normal\" item that a player has not altered via the regular market.the others i do not agree with at all.the acquiring and making use of market information across region borders is one of the main tools traders and manufacturers have for making their isk. what would be the sense of taking it away?to be able to customize the market sorting would be a convenience, but its present form adds to the market pvp via differing levels of skill in interpreting the info -- much as some players are better at combat than others through innate or trained skill at strategy and tactics.all i ask is a font that soon-to-be-45yo eyes can read without putting my nose 6 inches from the monitor and squinting."
"1 isn't going to happen - the regionalization of the market is done because of database issues, and doing what you propose would have a massively negative effect on database calls. 2 and 3 are great, though. every item with fixed stats(i.e., not fitted, researched, etc.) should be market-tradeable, and the sorting schemes on the market orders are appallingly bad."
"agreed... regional market is just fine... maybe a skill that allows you to reach neighboring regions or something.as for the others... i've always thought it was just flat stupid you couldn't sell the bloody kitchen sink without going through a contract.seriously... this needs to be fixed."
"agreed with all, as pointed #1 wont happen, but still support this.more filtering/highlighting/sorting options on the market are allways good. ffs highlight my own orders on teh market window!"
"i have been podded in low sec, high sec (dammit jita ), and 0.0. i do not support this in the least bit.i would say it is all part of the learning experience"
"no. this is a terrible idea. while you're at it why don't you just introduce pvp flagging and be done with it."
"thread full of fail to mention jump clones.i have some expensive implants to help me manage my mission ship and i also risk them in worm holes, but if i want to go into low sec i just swap clone.allowed me to experience the true wtf of being podded by a smartbomb at the gate since i couldn't be arsed to wait for the aggression timer in a virtually worthless clone. also ended up with me getting to watch the pervs video and it would be a shame if a tactic like that didn't reap the podding rewards it deserved."
"tbh if not even the op will support this what chance anyone else thinking this dumb ass idea is good."
"terrible idea. if you're about to die, start spamming the warp button to a station/gate/planet/whatever. you should only ever get podded in 0.0 when you're bubbled. otherwise you're an idiot."
"first fix the blackops by giving it more love to the seperate fuel bay. and is this guy really in a csm delegate? omg"
"supported"
"although i like the idea of this module, i do not think it is needed to reinvent the black ops.black ops has great potential, just needs more buffing from ccp to be truly effective.however, the module is a good idea. perhaps a chance for a t2 tier 2 battlecruiser?"
"i would lower the radius to 20 km and have it not be able to decloak gate cloaks."
"the gate cloak thing wouldn't help at all. just wait for the cov ops to leave gate cloak, enter their own cloak, then decloak them as they slow-boat out of the bubble and they all die."
"no, that meant to save you from lag death or give you time to look what is around you. i want to see mine death, not to wake up in station, knowing nothing."
"i would like to propose adding items to increase the size of the drone bay. they would be similar to cargo containers in that they could not be stacked inside one another, but they can only hold drones. cargo containers aren't overpowered because they limit the maximum size of what you can carry (i.e. you can't fit most ships or larger pos mods in containers) and provide a slight inconvenience when carrying smaller items (must move ammo into the cargohold to load into a weapon). since the drone bay expansions would not have these downsides, they need to have another. i propose that the drone bay expansions reduce the size of your cargohold by the total capacity of the module when they are in a drone bay.note that a giant secure container gives you a 30% increase in space. all drone bay expansions are a fixed 50% increase (in drone bay space). however, they can not be stacked inside other secure containers and they take up space in your cargohold (or more likely reduce your cargohold size) even when installed in the drone bay.the actual items:item___________________volume __capacity__cargo penaltysmall drone bay expansion - - 10 - - - - 15 - - - - 15medium drone bay expansion - 20 - - - - 30 - - - - 30large drone bay expansion - - 50 - - - - 75 - - - - 75note that the sizes are well-balanced. they allow you to carry extra drones of the type intended for your ship, while limiting your ability to carry larger drones."
"for example, here are some popular ships and the effect these modules would have on them.rupture: before: 30m3, 30mb, 300m3 cargoholdafter: 45m3, 30mb, 255m3 cargoholdas it stands the rupture can carry up to one large drone. however, a more reaonable choice would be 3 mediums, 2 mediums and 2 lights, or 5 lights + 1 light backup. note that with a drone bay expansion, there is no way you can carry a heavy drone again. maxing out this ship would require one medium and one small drone bay expansion. with this expansion the ship is capable of holding 45m3 of drones - allowing 5 lights + 4 light backups, or 3 mediums and 3 lights. the cargohold penalty is somewhat painful, but not overwhelmingly crippling. note that this extensive analysis will not be repeated again, you get the idea.caracal:before: 10m3, 10mb, 450m3 cargoholdafter: 15m3, 10mb, 435m3 cargoholdvery little gain.vexor:before: 100m3, 75mb, 480m3 cargoholdafter: 150m3, 75mb, 330m3 cargoholdallows the vexor to carry twice as many drones as it can control.arbitrator:before: 150m3, 50mb, 345m3 cargoholdafter: 225m3, 50mb, 120m3 cargoholdthe arbitrator can already carry a very large number of drones. at the penalty of virtually eliminating the arbitrator's cargohold this would make it possible for the arbitrator to become a mini-carrier, capable of carrying enough drones to replenish the losses (launch, abandone drones) of a small gang.tempest:before: 75m3, 75mb, 600m3 cargoholdafter: 110m3, 75mb, 495m3 cargoholdvery little impact. most notable application is carrying two full sets of medium drones instead of 1 set of medium + 1 set of lights.raven:before: 75m3, 75mb, 665m3 cargoholdafter: 110m3, 75mb, 560m3 cargoholdsee tempest.megathron:before: 125m3, 125mb, 675m3 cargoholdafter: 185m3, 125mb, 495m3 cargoholdcould now carry a full rack of heavies (as before) plus a full set of lights. note that although the space would allow for a full set of mediums, due to the containers' layout, it is actually not possible. this is similar to not being able to fit a pos in a giant secure container even if you can carry 10 gscs in your hold.apocalypse:before: 75m3, 75mb, 675m3 cargoholdafter: 110m3, 75mb, 570m3 cargoholdsee tempest."
"reservededit: for those of you that argue this being a rig or module:that does greatly increase the drawback, so its worth considering. however, i feel that if it were a rig or module it would only ever be used on dedicated droneboats. for example, when have you seen an omni tracking link or a drone nav computer on anything other than a drone boat? i feel that keeping this an 'item' would make it much more compelling to the majority of players. for example, if this were a low-slot module there's no chance in hell it's going on my rupture or mega. in the words of a poster further down:"
"if anything, i think you're being a little bit too conservative with this proposal. yes, drones need more modules, and bay expanders are perfectly reasonable. it's not like it lets you use bigger drones any more, ever since bandwidth came in, just more. that is perfectly fine."
"concern:regarding the lack of usage of the newly introduced strategic cruiser (t3) class, even if the price for them would drastically go down, i would like to bring up this topic to push the creation of the missing t2 ship hulls, before creating even more, by normal usage, useless t3 stuff.the hulls which need its t2 version to be implented are:tier3 battleships: hyperion, abaddon, rokh, maelstromtier2 battlecruisers: myrmidon, harbinger, drake, hurricanepossible field of applicationtier3 t2 battleships:a heavier version of its basic t1 hull but with focus on improved pvp usage unlike the marauder class4 bonuses, 2 for damage, 2 tank + special rolea tier3 t2 worthy special role which could be a battleshipsized ddd, like a super smartbomb for 15k damage and a 5 minute cycle, or a battleshipsized siege mode which works like its capital counterpart just in a smaller dimension. tier2 t2 battlecruisers:following the line of ew ships which contains electronic attack ships (frigate, fast, papertank, small ew bonus) and recon ships (cruiser, even combat recons still with papertank, big ew bonus)2 heavy tank bonuses, 2 medium ew bonuses, no special role or damage bonuses *edit: this proposal is not to get exactly these bonuses and roles on the ships, that are only ideas, it's basically about just getting t2 versions of the not used t1 hulls."
"since this is my own proposal, i really support it!"
"signed for t2 myrm!"
"i'm not going to support new t2 ships unless they have a clearly defined, sensible role. these don't. i'd rather just stick to letting ccp's development cycle take its natural course instead of bringing up ideas this ill-formed."
"what the hell would be cooler as a t2 rokh and t2 drake?signed!!!"
"i agree with herschel on this, we don't need to add ships without a role or purpose. we have a few that suffer from that. also, we do not need another dd in this game. that's a terrible mechanic. no support.--isaac"
"\o/-and make it good looking too!"
"i don't support your idea and there are several reasons to it.firstly i don't like the idea of having a mini titan since the titan is already proving to be very broken at this time, a flagship in the form of a battleship with command mods would be a much better idea.secondly a t2 battlecruiser that is a super recon is bad design as it breaks the entire line of covert ships and pretty much kills the black ops battleships to complete uselessness especially if it has tank and ew. that is just overall overpowered.thirdly more t2 would be nice but if the prices of t2 battleships remain so absurdly high to actually only make them viable of pve it has no use and would be just another nice gimmick. yes t2 battleships are too expensive, why would i buy one of those when i can buy a carrier fitted with t2 for the same price."
"i can just remention it: my intention is not to bring definitly tier3 t2 battleships and tier2 t2 battlecruisers with the abilitys i posted, i'm totally open to any other suggestion. i just want a t2 version of these hulls, no matter what they are for in the end (just not useless)."
"not supported.ccp has stated on many occasions that they do not believe the direction to go in is \"bigger and better\" but \"different\" and i agree with them in this. this, from my point of view, is the main argument against a t2 version of the tier 3 bs, at least as described here. as for the t2 tier2 bcs, it's a little more complicated. consider caldari recons, or ecm boats in general. these are characterize by 1) long range 2) a compromise between efficiency in their role and their tank. bulk tank bonuses, ala the drake, would make the proposed t2 ewar bcs too powerful and surely predominant in fleet/gang pvp, evenmore so than the notorious falcon. bonuses for active tanks would be less imbalanced but still i think it's not something that there is a need for at current."
"well, bringing a t2 battleship which is made for pvp with better tank and more dps is just the logical step.frigate --> assault frigatecruiser --> heavy assault cruiserbattlecruiser --> 1 of the 2 racial command shipsbattleship --> nothing yet, only the tier3 hulls left to use, marauders are obviously for pve.why should what applies for all sizes under bs not apply for bs size itself?"
"\"flagship\" class? i heard that suggested before. still think it's a good idea."
"a gallente bc that actually looks good would definitely qualify as being \"different\". i've been flying a bc since, at least, the beginning of the year and have no plans to train the battleship skill until i'm absolutely ready. that could be months from now. having another ship for the industrialist to produce and sell would surely be a welcome idea to them and would also make game play more interesting for bc pilots.an improved power grid for the tech ii gallente bc would be a great help.edited for humor...q: just how ugly is the myrmidon really?a: the myrmidon is so ugly that you'd think the minmatar built it.ok. to be fair, it may have been designed by a gallente engineer team on space crack."
"a part of me would like to see new ships, period. on the other hand i see so many ships which are nothing more than curios right now.. fix these first and while you're at it adjust the newest t3 hulls' prices.then we can talk new t2 ships."
"manipulating the grid is frankly as abuse-able as the insta-warp mwd trick.yes i've seen the said documents and admittedly it has been well researched and very clever.however space is not made up of grid like amarrian laser crystals aren't made of jelly.ok granted they are in place for a reason but seriously with a few simple changes it could all be fixed.fully supported"
"no surprise."
"let it make sense when we go into battle saying; \"now, all we need is a little energon... and a lot of luck.\""
"yes! this will make the game 500% better for the average gamer"
"i am going to assume this steaming pile of excrement is a troll.caod must be over bandwidth quota or something.ah, mitnal, where are you when we need you."
"sorry, but i just want to make the game a bit cooler.just because the proposal isn't a mechanic change or a bug-fix doesn't mean the game can't do with this. ccp do have a sense of humour when it comes to naming their mods - pwn, pwnd, pwnage etc. so sorry if you don't think this is cool, but transformers are ftw, it's an easy enough change too:)"
"reported for spamming"
"and i have reported you for being a ****less troll who only seems to spam every single goddamn thread in this forum with nonsensical one liners.thumbs up, i like it."
"well i don't see anything wrong with the word cap booster although if anyone can come up with a better name i don't see why not.but please no energon."
"actually drake has offered quite verbose posts. when the topic requires it.this one, on the other hand, does not."
"pretty much what she said. (no, that isn't a joke) this is a troll. disregarding the obvious transformers reference, this idea is pretty bad overall. we don't need to change this module's name. --isaac"
"i could be tempted to say i don't need pity for this particular thing, but apparently i do"
"i for one support this fully. though, i do prefer the original non-simplified idea."
"just pity really. go back to hiding hams under your jacket, friend."
"so your proposal is to nerf the crap out of highsec mission running? as far as i can tell ccp can already adjust everything your talking about except dynamic drop rates.some agents pay better than other agents of the same quality so something is adjustable rather than fixed.what your suggesting is a way to significantly boost low sec/.0 and nerf high sec. now i don't have a problem with boosting lowsec and null but there are already no shortage of casual players that have a single account and just like running a couple missions a day for a living in eve and your talking about nerfing the crap out of them.while we are at it why don't we create dynamic asteroid belts that significantly weaken high sec fields and improve low sec and null fields?lets create a dynamic security system that lowers security in high sec systems and adds it to low sec and null based on the number of fuzzy bunny slippers injected into the sun.we should also develop a system of forcing new and casual players to line up in front of a firing squad so the gank for lulz people can get there epeen stroked.progressive thinking rarely leads to progress."
"when you pre-activate a module, and attempt to lock someone that is still invulnerable (such as when they undock), your module still looks like it is pre-activated, but in fact it isn't.can we keep the pre-activation?"
"the support post"
"sure."
"and this idea leaves industrial characters, who mission for standing to reduce costs, where?"
"hahahahahhhahahahahaha no.sheesh... lay off the space crack."
"how do i get the standings to start running missions? epic arcs have been proposed, but what if my standings are -1.9?how will this proposal allow mission-runner to defend \"their\" salvage?when you go shopping at a supermarket and earn \"loyalty points\", does that mean you are a factional supporter of that supermarket? or are you simply accruing an alternative currency?how would forcing mission-runners to join the militia increase interest in factional warfare? they're mission-runners, who you are now forcing into pvp. this will not achieve what you think it will. you'll have more people in militias who do not want to participate in fw, causing existing fw players to become disillusioned and unmotivated due to the increase in apathy.many people i know run missions to support their pvp habit. they run missions in \"downtime\", so they don't burn out."
"did you realise that one of the best agents for minmatar is smack bang in the middle of caldari space, 4 jumps from jita. considering the number of corps stations agents etc. in oposing space this is a very big problem for the proposed idea."
"i support th....oh wait"
"i do not support this idea of forcing players into factions."
"/opposedtwo basic requirements would have to be met before something like this would even be feasible. first, you would need to let alliances join factions (or allow corps in alliances to join factions). second, you would need to make the remaining factions joinable (why would the khanid be any less restrictive on hiring than the amarr?).instead of this, i propose a simple implementation: increase rewards for pilots running missions for their own faction. make it a sizable bonus, say 25-50% to isk reward and lp, or some such. or make the bonus scale to militia rank; for example 5% times rank level. (note that salvage would be unchanged, so this is somewhat less of an increase than is appears.) from a flavor-test perspective, it would make sense that the factions would be more generous in rewarding their own people. from a risk v. reward perspective, fw members have added risk of interception by hostiles. it would also draw more people into fw, and would also reduce the number of people in npc noob corps. and frankly, fw has gotten the short stick on rewards. heck, with the rank scaling, it would also encourage participation in plexing."
"i could support some variation on this idea. it needs some discussion around the finer points, but at first blush it looks at least feasible."
"what a crap ideaseriously, it's a rainy afternoon and this is the bset you could come up with? crickey"
"they are already in the pipeline."
"moved to assembly hall."
"we actually discussed it with ccp the first time we were in iceland."
"good good."
"that is not in the suggestion. instead it's just to add heavy assault missiles to the req to fit hamls etc. as it stands, fitting the launcher only requires missile launcher operation 1 and not the skill to actually use the intended missiles themselves. the only way this suggestion would be negative is if someone would fit their ham drake to fire only defenders.this is a legacy from when you had cruise kestrels and the like and it is only logically implemented for citadel torpedo launchers, that actually require citadel torpedoes 1 to fit."
"no reply?? wtf."
"this is what happens when you post threads in the wrong forum"
"i had to miss that last meeting due to work.good luck csm3!... and see you all on fanfest!"
"they are already in the pipeline."
"moved to assembly hall."
"we actually discussed it with ccp the first time we were in iceland."
"good good."
"another month, and still no official word. while this issue may or may not have been discussed during the last meeting of csm#2 last month, results of that meeting (or even hints as to what was discussed) have yet to be released."
"thanks for all the support so far! it would be nice to hear from the new csm members though"
"everything here. though rather then second dmg bonus should really give rof as stated."
"cool. i'd be very happy if those were the bonuses chosen."
"i actually somewhat agree with you, but much like the problem of neutral vultures stealing my hard won pvp loot, there is simply no way to make them pay for interfering in my fight in any meaningful way unless they are tremendously stupid or have a hardware failure. the balance is skewed too far in favour of the neutral repper."
"this proposal should have nothing to do with neutral rr'ing. it just should be a proposal to give a 60 second aggression \"can't dock or jump\" timer to anyone who uses any form of remote-assistance. i don't care if the repairer is in the same corp or not, he shouldn't be able to dock once he starts to get shot at and then undock and start repairing again.furthermore, i would propose that you receive killrights on any neutral who renders remote assistance to someone you are fighting so that you have 30 days to attack them at will."
"be especially nice if you could set incoming money to split itself between more than one wallet section. like 60% goes into primary wallet and 40% goes into savings (for those \"one of these days\" purchases)."
"/signed"
"it really would. it *might* even promote more mission runners into low-security."
"yep.people who are paranoid enough to be constantly checking their directional scanner will do it either way. this change would just make it a little bit less frustrating an experience."
"exactly. people paranoid enough do it already. this change would simply make it less frustrating."
"supported, with current technology, you can never have enough security."
"support"
"i support this, without ammos. i don't like the idea of automatizing defence in 0.0.to me, if there is no pvpers, there should be no defences.time delay gameplay again... :(anyway, i can see this working with outposts. currently you shoot the outpost to conquer it. you should capture it with infantry to conquest it imho.btw i forgot to support this thread and.... bump."
"support"
"what does this to fix the real problem of mining? i.e. utter and plain boredom.seriouslly that's what is broken with it, a game should be fun, not drag stuff mechanically over and over."
"supported!"
"empty postin'. :("
"360000.0"
"it's about time that drones get some love!"
"no way, hopefully someday ccp will get around to sorting the client interface and ui out."
"while we're waiting for hell to freeze over, why can't we work on these things for ourselves and for our community?"
"/signed"
"how did i miss this thread when it was first posted"
"really?"
"help this man !"
"oh, i almost forget them. yes, i want them to."
"\"given the nature of capital warfare...\" i don't even know where to start. yes it is wrong but not because new thinks i want, but because it is how it is now. \"it's just a way of making things more expensive and take up more sp to no real end.\" lol you precisely describe what all eve is about. great!"
"support"
"support"
"honestly it doesn't make sense to build a ship specifically for this purpose.use what we already got.... a gas strip miner for the mining barges/exhumers would work just fine.they do ice and rock..why not gas?"
"he said whut i was going to say.supported :d"
"supported."
"as an additional checkbox option (whether it be one or two), i support this idea."
"how it happens game mechanics-wise isn't as important as making sure the jbs are accessible more often than not as is presently the case. keep those ideas coming! thx!"
"i like the idea of the jb being able to be standing based and not requiring a password. with our without tolls it's a good idea.corp owning the tower having an option to set up tolls based on the mass of the ship traveling. also a great idea with our without standing/password usage.with both in combination this can make fast and efficient travel for the friendlies allowed with appropriate standing, without the feeling your shorting the corp that is spending the time to do the logistics and is paying for the fuel.at the very least allowing standing based access to the jb cargo to put in fuel is a good idea as well.right now the only options are painful, either leading to outages that can last hours or slow go travel through bridges that are suppose to speed up travel.problem with the idea is ozone bought in 0.0 is expensive and harder to find, when the corp running the tower can truck it in from empire cheaper. also, depending on the length of the bridge network, the mass of the ship, and the distance the bridges cover in light years it will restrict what cargo room you have while traveling."
"because i didn't train drones to rank 5 to use only 4 heavies."
"the maelstrom is already a filthy **** machine, it doesn't need more drone bay/bandwidth."
"speak for yourself.....an extra drone wouldn't break the game..."
"mimitar are not drone users. not even close. i believe the ship is already well balanced.if you can give any more reason in your op, i might agree, but simply \"i trained the skills, give me more drones!!\" is not reason enoughyou want to use 5 heavies? go fly amarr or gallente."
"or a phoon. but yeah, 4 heavy drones is a great compliment to your turret dps in pvp. you can also use several waves of scout drones for a little help against small support ships also. ditto using different waves of scout drones as a compliment to your turrets in pve. the maelstrom really doesn't need any drone love."
"there really isn't a reason to say no... nor a reason to yes to the argument.as it wouldn't really effect the game that much.i'd be satisfied even if it never happened.but being a maelstrom pilot... i've always wondered why you could always have 5 of one class but never a heavy."
"besides the maelstrom is only good for mission running and ratting in which case the 10 medium drones your already carrying are more than sufficient."
"i am wondering if it would be possible to save x number of fittings onto the eve server. a power outage the other day deleted all my fittings and interface settings. a few slots per person for fittings would be very useful."
"might i suggest a battery backup for your computer?really helpful!or you can store your fittings on behalf of the \"corp\" which stores it on the server."
"yeah, the client stores way too many things locally. i can think of no good reason why each character has to separately declare that items going into a container do so unlocked, for example. similarly, there's no good reason why you should lose all your fittings when you go to a different computer."
"supported."
"support"
"your missing one minor point... the necessity to war dec for the sake of faction war is no longer needed under this context.it's not a true player alliance as the executor is the militia empire you signed up for.this removes the war-dec problem as you would be in a constant state of war-dec with oposing militia's."
"and you are missing the main point. this isn't about two corporations in opposing militias.this is about organizations outside of the militias attacking corp's within any militia. if shadow cadre (no alliance/faction) wardecs 22nd black rise defense unit (caldari state) it is not the same as shadow cadre wardeccing cva to get at imperial dreams (cva). if you want to attack imperial dreams, you have to wardec all of cva. however an organization (outside of militias) can isolate a single corp within a militia/faction.sf, the guys proposing this, have had this as their modus operandi for the past year. i think they have a pretty good idea how it currently works and the frustration felt by their targets as their militia/faction mates aren't able to help as they would have to shell out millions of isk just to sign up."
"ah.. fair enough then.:)"
"to make a long story shot. there are several things to do to make the drone regions not suck so much. there are alot of empty systems. why the drone regions suck. the only thing they are good for is building thats good and all but there some changes that can and should be made. to improve the regions that are controlled by the drones. here are my ideas for making them alot better. 1. add a few ferrogel moon.2. add bounties to the 0.0 drones like all other rats in 0.03. allow concord to grant sec gain to the drones.with these few changes. the drone regions would be alot more active and more valuable to fight for and to conquer. add any ideas and support."
"refusing to acknowledge the existence of counterarguments is a poor way to convince people that you have indeed identified a legitimate problem and come up with a well-thought-through means of correcting it.the only \"problem\" with undercutting a previous order by .01 isk is that you've been beaten by someone who is putting more time and attention into the game than you are.competing on service, quality, location, etc. would be nice, but the game doesn't support any of those. the eve market runs on price alone. if you don't like that you need to find a different aspect of the game that would give you more enjoyment."
"maybe that is a little drastic.. but i hate how slow the market responds to changes.the reason its so bad is it effects all levels of trade and production. if there is a shortage of something (most often high end moon materials) the price of the material and everything it produces spikes. as the shorted item returns in volume the guys getting more for their material during the shortage are not in a rush to lower prices so the 0.01 game starts to ever so slowly bringing the prices down. then it slowly filters down to intermediate items (like in the case of moon materials it's reactions) where the 0.01 isk game is played. then the 0.01 isk game finally filters down to end products. so, even tho the available volume of the item that was short is back again, the market is very slow to move back to its previous levels. shortages become good isk makers. for those without direct access to the shorted material, they make the most isk trading when the product becomes available again, and the material prices are now low but the end products are still high. marketeers and manufactures are actually are not in a big rush to lower prices at that point because their margins are higher in the short term. 0.01 isk underbidding is an easy way for them to continue selling products that would be overpriced any other way. all that keeps the end products high for longer times.if the minimum market price changed went from 0.01 to just even 1 isk that would mean 100x higher then the minimum is now then the market would move back that much quicker to previous levels after a shortage. the problem is 1 isk is far to high for material like minerals or other items that cost under 10 isk making it difficult to have a competitive market when the price change minimum of 1 isk or more then 10% of the items price. players would have to change the price twice, up 2 isk then down 1.9 if they wanted to change a 4 isk order of pyrite from 4 to 4.1 witch should be aloud.so how about minimum of 1 isk or 0.01% of the current market order witch ever is lower.1,000 isk item would default to 1 isk instead of 10 isk.100 isk item would be 1 isk either way.10 isk item would be 0.1 isk.1 isk item would be 0.01 isk.if it meant faster recovery from shortages, easier time selling products on the market, and products on the market closer to the actual manufactured price i think we should look at trying it out."
"i'm new to the game, just 2 months with it, but the trade profession is my game - it simply does not require so damn much skill points for making (lot of) money. the .01-undercutting is terribly annoying, but it is the only way for a noob to play par with other players. all they have to invest is time and effort, which would have no meaning in lvl.4 missions or 0.0sec at 1mio. skillpoints or 'not enough skillpoints to even try it out'... and i think that is one thing which is never told to beginners, when they ask what they could to at the start. i'm against any change that hinders beginners to go with a \"human-skill\" start, the game is hard enough for newbs to get along, leaving the last \"free for all skillpoints\" resort again to more experienced players, would again be frustrating to new players. we already can't compete in anything sitting in a ship, market-pvp should remain a terrain for all. but the frustration is very painful, not argueing with reallife, but i think a small regulation to prevent abuse would be great.my suggestion would be to widen the time window in which orders are allowed to be modified. once every hour was stated above, i think that's a good point. investing time and effort - staying one more hour at the market to see if competion has reacted to my undercut is still honored, but this 'every 5 minute' at trade hubs will be removed."
"i think that if it's implemented, we could assume that it won't affect gate cloaks weather we want it to or not."
"i agree. drones need some love, and this is a very well-balanced idea to help ships (both droneships and not) with their drone carrying capacity. there is some advantage to having more drones, but that is negated by the smaller dronebay size.i wish i was still a delegate, as i would've pushed for this. for now, we'll have to see what the new csm decides.edit: i do agree that this should be a module for the ship, but perhaps with some (much smaller) boost to bandwidth too. it would work as a low-slot module (negating the need to reprogram the drone bay to allow for cans and such), and it would hinder the ships that use drones the most (amarr and gallente, since they're both armor tankers). for the ships it would give marginal boost to (crapdari and minmatar), the harm would also be less.you could also reasonably make it a mid-slot item, and give a small bonus to drone control range (something like +5 km), to make it less powerful and less harmful to armor tankers. this is something for q&a of ccp to decide, but it does have promise, and hence i do support it."
"strangely, i am against the suggestion.such things should be rigs or modules. not cans you stuff in your dronebay. that would be a free ride. the drawback would be very limited for most setups and completely non-existent for many set-ups. make it a rig/module that increases drone bay size and i am all in favour.it also would not limit my ability to carry larger drones, when i mount them on a droneboat, because the drone boats still have the space for the heavies and sentrys, but they could field more mediums and lights with no real drawback. pure cargo space loss is not critical for most droneboats. cargo space loss and using up a low or rig slot is."
"your opinions are all very reasonable, however... i feel that this really gives a boost to non-drone boats more than drone boats. also i believe, the cargohold drawback is very significant for most drone boats. most setups rely heavily on cap boosters. gaining flexibility and longevity in drones causes you to lose cap staying power.also, yes - you're right about it not limiting your ability to carry large drones on a droneboat. it prevents you from using larger drones than normally intended. drone boats usually use large drones."
"being able to expand my drone bay? as a drone user, i can't not support this./signed."
"that is true. however, something like this should not only work for non-droneboats. it has to work across the board, without creating imbalance in favour of the the ships that are already strong with drones. your suggestion also hugely favours amarr ships, because they need a lot less cargo space, due to the lack of lots of ammo. even further down the road, it should work for both pve and pvp. however, like you suggest it, it would favour pve much more than pvp.that is true at first glance, but i think at second glance it is not. the reason for that is, because it is not unique to drone boats. all ships need cargo for cap boosters, if they use cap boosters. only active systems and weaponry do use/need capboosters, though. drones don't need cap and neither do passive tanks. especially drone boats can do with much less cap than non-droneboats and these droneboats would benefit hugely from even more drone space without drawbacks. whether or not you are able to bring an additional set of ecm drones or not is not to be underestimated. in addition, the number of drones also adds to the longevity of the smaller droneboats, because it enables them to cope with losses from smartbombs, without having to withdraw.most importantly - and i should have mentioned that in my first post - i think it would be very complicated to code. cargo has to be put manually into cargo containers. drones dock to the dronebay automatically and they will not know how you have tinkered them to fit. especially not, if you launch and recall groups partially. mixed launches and retrievals of individual drones might quickly end up in storage positions that prevent drones from docking, that could launch without problems before, due to a gap in such a can that cannot be filled by the returning drones due to size, while the remaining gap space is in the main drone hangar, where it isn't enough either.i also suspect that in-world the drone bays of most tech ii drone ships already operate based on similar principles as the weird tardis cargo cans. if you are thinking of containers simply as more efficient use of space (being able to use the volume better due to stacking stuff to the ceiling without trouble), this would already be the case for drone bays, which will already have dedicated and optimized retrieval, launch and storage systems. admitted, rp reasoning is pretty weak in that regard, though."
"i like this idea, i like it a lot. when drone bandwidth was introduced, a lot of us were expecting larger drone bays on a lot of ships, but it didn't work out. this is an excellent way of increasing the modularity of ships in eve, and more customization = win!"
"make it a low/med slot module though."
"nice suggestion."
"/signed, but with a caveat -- the current drone extensions are already there for speed, range and tracking. drones are a weapon, and ccp treats them as such. so, rather, i think there should be a subsection of rigs that allow for an extension to either low, med or high slots, cargo capacity or drone bay and bandwidth.that would be, in my utterly humble opinion, a fantastic way to make all current ships much more flexible. if you wanted more guns, you rig an extra high slot, or totally overdo it and rig three extra high slots for guns, or add a rig for more drones plus a rig for more drone bandwidth.you would be naturally limited on most ships as power/cpu/cap would limit what you could add, and splitting the rigs up amongst extra slot vs. extra capacity (you need one rig for extra high slot plus one rig for an extra turret slot, say) would keep it within limits.interesting idea, and we wouldn't have to mess around with insanely priced t3 stuff, but just that which we already have."
"yep i like the idea but think it should be either down to rigs or low/med slots, prefferably a low slot since its gallente who specialise in drones, only fair they lose a slot like caldari do with tackle or gallente with damage mods intead of tank"
"rigs make sense... that or low slots under the category of hull modifications."
"supporting this. helps all racial ship types, helps pvp and pve without detriment to either. with the ai changes being a template for future expansions, i would hope we would see an increase in drone bay size. the devs changed drone mechanics to push for cycling your drones when they start taking damage. few ships can do this at present, with many ships having a drone bandwith being equal to drone bay size."
"first off, i don't think it would be too hard to code. currently you can't drag and drop items from your drone bay unless you're docked or in range of a maintenance array. therefore these containers would be no different. also, for the rpers: the drone bay expansion modules exist entirely in your cargohold. however, they require you to open a panel on your drone bay for a door. this prevents you from using all the original space in your drone bay since you can no longer stack drones in front of the entrances to your expansions.p.s. *cough* hate *cough* dr. *cough* who!"
"we have the message \"you're about to jump into low sec, are you sure?\". can we also get an option for \"you're about to leave low sec, are you sure?\" as jumping into high sec as outlaw or with a aggro timer does the same as right-click->self-destruct, only faster. concord/navy is even less forgiving than low sec pirates."
"concord is here to protect innocent peoples, not pirates from low-sec"
"i would think a pirate such as yourself would be smart enough to know that when you do yarrish things that your sec rating is going to go down..and when you plan on going to high sec one would think your smart enough to realize that you may not be welcome anymore.top that off with some of the noobs who go to low sec for that thrill and then get chased back to the gate only to get podded due to a stupid message window warning them they are returning to high sec.not supported... epic fail."
"i can see why some pirates might want this - it's not just bears who need to be saved from themselves at times. that said, this is actively bad for casual lowsec players - if you're fleeing to highsec to survive a gank, you don't want warning windows getting in your way. given that there's more of the second group, and they tend to need the protection more, i'm going to have to come down against this change, i think. it's reasonable, but it's probably not correct."
"i only see it as more than logic for this to be there. there's also the same option for the auto pilot, so..."
"+1role bonus: general pew pewjust make sure it has 125 drone bandwidth.edit: supported"
"as much as i'd like a t2 drake.. i think i have to agree."
"i support this. scorpion aside, a tanky ewar boat is non-existant, and would have some uses if it wasn't too expensive. shield tanking would be problematic though.as for the t2 bs's, the idea needs some work, but it might be useful. perhaps a bs sized stealth bomber would be the way to go, except it would have a special bombing module which would be less like the sb bomb(much less damage and radius) and more like a remote smartbomb. that could give it the role of a drone cleaner. also, giving it an inherent increased smartbomb bonuses to radius/cap/damage might not be a bad idea at all."
"new ship hulls i always like..... ships with stupid mods alike a super smart bomb? no plans? no refinement?epic fail."
"i definately support this!"
"oh, hey, i'd love to see some t2 ships use these hulls someday. i'm just opposed to this topic - let ccp come up with an actual role for them, don't just assume that new equals good. ccp knows that players like new ships, but they also know that they shouldn't add it to the game immediately and without consideration just because we would think it's kind of nifty. i'd only support this proposal if it had a good, new idea in it, and it doesn't."
"although i think t2 tier 3 bs's should happen i dont think these ideas are the right ones, for t2 bs i think a larger command ships style ship makes more sense like this one \""
"as stated here and discussed a lot"
"not supported, priorities:1)eve needs overhauled sov mechanics....7) eve needs more 0.0 space.any increase in the current map would leed to the alredy established alliances claming even more power and influence theyn they have alredy. they way to open up 0.0 is not to make it biger."
"this...fix the problem before you make it worse by feeding it... likening to pouring gas on an open flame."
"i can agree with the overhauled sovereignty mechanics, but more space? this game has over 5k solar systems and just added 2.5k wormhole space systems too. how much more do you want?"
"the problem is that most of those systems can't support all that many players. let 0.0 player density increase, and you won't need new space nearly so badly. also, make 0.0 warfare(i.e., sov/pos mechanics) less painful before you increase the amount of it that you expect your players to do."
"not supported. fix whats broken first. adding anything to this game can have unintended consequences to the whole having a precident in the game already,(hi drone regions!) fix low sec, fix sov and profit. adding new regions for the sake of adding new regions isn't needed, and could be detrimental to the game longterm."
"this tbh. most 0.0 are crappy systems that are empty. seriously, take a trip to any 0.0 region and hit the systems with security status below -0.25. ghostville. fix this problem where 0.0 space even the lowest sec status has value and you will find that there is more than enough space in 0.0regards"
"the eve galaxy is too small, yes. but adding new space to it is not the answer.instead, navigating around what we already have needs nerfing; it's currently too easy. there's all sorts of ways to achieve this: reducing the jump range of all capital ships, increasing the jumpclone timer, removing wtz etc./ben"
"i dont like this grid manipulation thing one bit. on the contrary, i am concerned that such a game mechanic will undermine honest people's efforts in playing eve. and imo even one incident of cheating would be too much really, and i would hate it.the thought of contributing with an expensive capital ship for a fleet, and then loosing stuff because someone had the balls to make use of this, would suck.i feel the stakes are so high with this exploit that it is unforgivable to let is pass as a quirk of playing internet spaceships. i should add that i have no experience in anything regarding this grid manipulation, i did read the guide though to inform myself.perhaps a special fleet ship (of limited utility) could be designed for the players, to work as a tool for two fleets to join a battle without lagging out? this special fleet ship would be given by the server a special privilege offering a swift grid load for its fleet. maybe working with the opponents fleetship to sort out lag at optimal times before the fleets clash together.theres a flagship idea right there."
"asking for this stupid assed proposal is like asking to put in a star destroyer just because it would be cool to have one in eve... or to change the name of a laser cannon to turbo laser.... or other things.ccp is in this to make money... not lose it to some idiots idea of a joke which results in getting sued for theft of an idea.ps: and before you get mr. smartypants on me.... there are many sci-fi terms commonly used in many different fictional works.... energon is unique to transformers... hyper drive... warp drive.... jump drive.... can be found pretty much in any major space based sci-fi."
"reported for spamming"
"or just boost lowsec. or boost lowsec and 0.0. highsec itself need not absolutely be affected at all. but you could nerf highsec missions too, if you really wanted.bingo. and that's what this is all about."
"just came accross this interesting post in c&p. so if your tired of isk sellers spamming local, put your own spam up \"free tibet now\". with enough of us doing it the chinese government might crack down on them."
"perhaps the 'raw' transcript could be posted until such time as the finished product is ready?"
"are any of the csm's looking to address the mass amount of macro'ing that takes place in eve, via missions, mining, ratting?"
"yup, the only question is \"how\", most of the solutions you can read in the assembly halls are flawed, so... still checking them at the moment and see what the most sensible/effective are."
"agreed. the old jump effect was great.it made capital fleets look terrifying, instead of now they just look lame.seeing 50 dreads jump in somewhere should look epic as hell."
"very much agreed"
"yeap bring it back preety please"
"agreed bring it back"
"i support this notion"
"signed, you have my full support for bringing the old cynojump animation back. the new one is fail.-jcr"
"/signed"
"agreed"
"when i first saw a capship jumping next to my frig, i nearly ****ed my pants. it had that 'epic factor' one would expect from a ship of that class.the new effect is puny and laughable. it detracts from the experience of flying a cap or alongside it. not a crippling issue but i'm sure ccp artists get bored at times. please design a new fx."
"/signed"
"being a droneboat pilot myself, i think the ishkur should get the same bonus the vexor, myrm, domi, ishtar, etc get - 10% bonus to drone damage and hp per level. this makes it in the same line as it's cousins, and isn't over-powered, since it can only field a maximum of 5 light drones. i'd put the optimal range bonus with the gallente frigate skill, and move this bonus to the assault ships skill."
"support given. i love my vengeance but it's a bit weak in the dps side of things."
"a typical blaster iskur fit - with no magstabs - would be pushing 280 dps with level 5 skills and the drone damage bonus you suggest. thats ridiculous. a blaster enyo with ions, 1 magstab and damage rigs will only do 269 with max skills. you see the problem. the ishkur is already overpowered. it needs a dps nerf if anything."
"a rocket hawk will tear apart any ishkur that can't stay at range, and a vengeance will tank it until backup arrives. yes, i am an ishkur pilot, myself- as i currently fly solely gallente, however, i know plenty of af pilots of other races, who feel the way i do. i've seen harpies take on dominixes- in fact, i've tested a friend's harpy on my domi- a ship perfectly equipped to kill afs (i had a full rack of smal/med neuts, stasis webs, and nearly skill-maxed hob iis)- and yet he /still/ managed to take a chunk out of my armor buffer before he called me off.afs have very specific roles, as do most t2 ships. some are better at tanking, others are better at tackling, others are better at putting out solid dps. i don't think it would be the end of the world if they got a buff, but i really don't think it's necessary."
"supported."
"they are powerfull ships as it is. i doubt they need a beef."
"@ supporters-so what if this change is made? you'll just see more cautious logistics alts, and more plated bs rring- rather than docking up, logi's will warp to an off grid, then back to a different safe far enough away from any tackles that he'd reps a c"
"classic neutral remote rep abuser ... cheap kills ... in his own wordstaken from their own kb: herenow its obvious why you basically have a problem with any look at this issue ... its been noted ... please move on"
"supporting this untill ccp removes alt's al together."
"this issue was just unanimously passed and will be brought to the csm/ccp meeting in iceland :)"
"awesome ... thanks csm"
"supported"
"supported"
"pit- what you neglected to mention was that i received remote reps after a dishonored 1v1... if they'd been smart, they would've brought a jamming ship- iirc we had a plated bs repping me, so shooting it would've been near worthless- but he didn't have eccm, so jamming him would've allowed them to kill me easily."
"yay csm! i knew voting for you was a good idea! :)"
"needs to be sorted"
"signed/vote yes"
"i fully endorse this idea."
"i endorse this idea as well. i would like to add that in the meantime, when checking your overview settings sort by type alphabetically from a-z (as opposed to z-a). this should put most probes near the top of the list since they mainly begin with a c or d. of course this doesn't take into account the sisters probes but i don't see them used that much in my experience."
"support, i had my wow account \"hacked\" and i am pretty sure it wasnt my own fault. i use both nod32 antivirus, firefalls on pc and router, and change password regular basis, and it still happened, i haven't found a keylogger on my system after the hack, so i would guess it was brute force, but anyways, and authenticator makes it a lot safer. and should be added as an extra options for players to use.but for the love of god, please ship to all countries... i paid more in shipping for my authenticator, than for the item it self, which is rather annoying.and for one of the posters up there somewhere.my password is 9+ in length, and a combination of mixed numbers and letters, capital and not.i dont share my password with any body, and if i do lend out my account(wow), i change the password first, and set it back right after they are done using it, which is often 5minutes to craft some item.i have a fully updated system, xp sp3, nod32, router firmware. and using firefox + adblock+, and generally know what i am doing online..(web programmer..)"
"couldnt agree more, as long as it is optional, this would be a huge benefit to both consumers as added security and to ccp in reduced petitions.please implement this or something similar."
"agreed, today's internet environment makes this kind of tools a must have."
"i'd prefer it to stay at mining barge 5, but instead of astrogeology 5 it should be astrogeology 4.however, eventually ccp will do whatever they want anyway. so whether or not it ends up being mb4 or ag4, does not truly shiver the timbers that much. it has to be either one of the two and any change is better than no change.hence, supported."
"had a really long post with feedback and an additional idea, but since the site keeps logging me out every couple of minutes, i'm just gonna support. if you want my idea convo me ingame or whatever...."
"what you and i may see as a problem (the boredom), some other people see as an advantage : they can easily do something else while the cargo fills (like read a book, watch a movie, feed the kids, discipline the puppy, whatever) and only come back every now and then to complete the cycle.if you can find a way to both keep the boredom-filled (minimal-interaction-needed) method of mining for a certain yield for those people who appreciate that aspect, and also add on top of that some exciting new way to mine that keeps you at the controls constantly for extra yield, targeted at people who find mining boring and want it to change so it's not anymore... then be my guest, name it."
"ret@rded game design tbh. games are meant to be active nd fun, indeed if youc an do it afk is macroable and wrong game design. a game should engange you proactivelly, can you think about any other game apart of mmorpgs where you have this sort of borign grindfest gameplay?to be fair i can't blame ccp for falling in the same traps of mmog industry, aka game design for idiots."
"an increase in total yield (by bringing miners to the hihger density rocks in low/null sec) will overall devalue the minerals. this can be a good thing. devalued minerals will actually end up favoring the miners, if this devaluing is due to the increase in yield. mining yield up with mineral prices down is a wash. however, mission/drone loot same, with mineral prices down is a loss. this will strengthen the influence of miners on mineral prices, which, imo, is the right direction to move.so what game are you a designer for? what would be a better system? mmorpg's need to have items of value, and unfortunately, just as in the real world, value can be directly attributed to labor. in eve, the labor is basically playtime."
"hummm... honestly, lets stoke a flame and do away with \"reprocessing\" of loot.... here is my theory, we want to do two things. first we want to make people want to mine and secondly we want miners to have a bigger sway on the mineral market. by killing reprocessing, we make it so minerals come from two sources, drones and ore. we then add the ideas given here in this thread to liven up mining a bit and it will draw people back to it. now the downside to \"no more reporcessing\" is the major whip in the market as things adjust.my playstyle shifts as my interest do. i am an \"above average\" miner so i mine when i want. i run missions when i grow tiard of mining, and i pvp when i want company.there are a few holes in the who \"arkanor idea\" thought. using your 1.0 asteroid belt that has an asteroid that will return 1% of its volume in arkanor, what happens to the arkanor that never got mined but the asteroid was mined to completion? perhaps it got chunked away as something else, but lets \"give it away\" to the person who depleted the asteroid.just a few random thought.jamie balton"
"this needs to happen"
"yes, do it."
"lol. don't see a problem with that. one question comes to mind though: you can't dock it, so where are you going to leave it?either way, you have my support."
"this"
"weapon systems in eve have the ability to be overloaded, except for drones. i wish to be able to overload my drones and am in full support of the op.-jcr"
"this. no really.and what about those people not frequenting the forums?"
"i do not think scanner curcles, local chat wornings and other little things like this can really be considered cheats and will have large influence on the game, why:logical explanation: in a starship you have a computer, combat analisers, navigation comupers, they calculate tragectory of a target ship a fire a railgun charge taking in account trajectory of the charge and the target. i have a suspision that showing a window if person in local appeared is withing the electronic's capabilities.practical reason: mostg of the people that get cought in low-sec are newbies or aren't used to those areas. the ratters that are used to those areas keep track of local, in mosat cases when they are baited or caught a pop-up window will not save them."
"what you're talking about have no relation to discussed topic.if devs think these things are exploits, they can forbid their modification in ui mods."
"yes"
"afk fof mission running ftw?"
"either this or a recharge time for lasers."
"wow i only had to log in twice to support this. yes plz da oui bitte affirmative aye <U+03BD>a<U+03B9> s<U+FFFD> sim  ja"
"supported."
"no, don't make it already easier then now.less automation plz."
"signed, eve for all"
"ccp needs to ask questions in forums instead of just throwing it on the test server which only a handful of people use.they used to do that. they don't anymore."
"ccp read these forums?"
"actually i didn't even notice as i never used them but i think its weird sitll. bring it back and make players more involved in the evaluation progress. i think they should couple a thread to the patch notes where people can respond on the new patch notes so things that might not seem important to some still get some evaluation by the player base."
"yip, signed"
"signed"
"agreed, effects (and people with lower end pc's) need some love."
"i support this."
"specifically, can we at least get sensor boosters and targeting computers into a different group, because even after the change they look bloody awful.i hate having to turn off logistics, ewar, and other effects just to stop targeting computers and sensor boosters giving me a ****ing migraine."
"empty supportin'"
"it has been about a year since the first csm was sweating their asses off in the meeting room, known as exodus, at ccp hq, due to the lack of air-conditioning. a small <U+FFFD>x<U+FFFD> meter window was our savior that weekend.one of the topics for discussion that weekend, was shares in eve online. mainly the fact that they cant be traded. but a very important thing which was also discussed, was the problems with share dividends. the dividends system is really old by comparison to things like the alliance system. however, it suffers from a large problem: its impossible to pay out a large sum of isk at once.the technical aspectit turns out that the dividend system can only pay out the value of 2,147,483,64 isk at a time. anybody who has taken a computer science will, will immediately identify this value to be the size of a signed 32-bit integer. i.e an integer value with sign, that fits into 32 bits. the value of 32 bits is equal to 2^32, which comes to 4.3 * 10^9. that means the unsigned value of a 32-bit integer is 4.3 * 10^9 big. to make it signed, you divide the value by 2, and put both + and  signs in front of that. that makes the 32-bit signed integer have a value from -2,147,483,648 to +2,147,483,647.based on this information, its fair to assume that the dividend system validates its values against the capacity of a 32-bit signed integer.ccp could make it a 32-bit unsigned integer. but then again, that would only double the capacity. while it might be a temporary fix, in the long run we will face the exact same problem.bring out the 64 bits!the obvious solution to this problem is to allow the dividend system to pay out the value of a 64 bit integer. the capacity of 64 bit is equal to 2^64, which is equal to 1.84 * 10^19. thats a lot!even by making said value signed, it will still be more than enough.but we dont have timebecause the dividends system simply creates a transaction in the eve database, its fairly reasonable to assume that the problem lies client-side. as such, it must be a value check on the client, which keeps you from paying out a large value. because the value of transactions are virtually unlimited at this point(probably a 64-bit signed integer) in terms of eve online, it should be possible to change the dividend system to allow such high payouts.how long might it take? well, assuming that the value validation on the client side wasnt coded by a monkey, it might be a single method which needs to have its value, which it checks against, to be a 64-bit variable. hard? if it is, then id like to point out that maybe theres a larger issue at play: that the code-base was coded by monkeys."
"fight for your right to pay out large dividends!"
"fight for others right to pay me large dividends!"
"if the game code is old (it should apply here) it's perfectly possible the coding was made in \"old\" style and numbers just declared \"int\" everywhere.if this is the case, the conversion will take longer than they want to spend time for.moreover, it's optimizing practice of the time to also declare fields as \"smallint\" or \"integer\" in the databases, akin to the famous bill gates \"none will ever need more than 640k ram\".if this hyphothesys is true, you can forget to see it fixed for a long time."
"i support this."
"how this has not been done yet is beyond me."
"this is one of those essential fixes."
"among a looooooong list of looooooong overdue corporate management interface improvements, everything that has to do with stocks is among the highest priorities that need fixing.hence: supported."
"just one more thing that should show up in a true industry expansion."
"this might just be the single worst coding decision i've seen in eve to date. even at launch, billions weren't inconceivable sums, but now this is just obviously inadequate. yes, fix it."
"fight for others right to pay me large dividends!"
"signed and supported mazz"
"agreed. along with the jb \"toll\" idea, issues with pos/jb ownership within an alliance would be resolved."
"looks like we've run out of steam on this. thanks for everyone's support. let's hope our illustrious csm's raise this issue with ccp in between vodkas shots in reykjavik"
"the maelstrom is a superb ship for many situations in lowsec and empire wardecs.it would benefit from increase dronebay to offset the fact it has to operate in falloff.supported, although i'd like to see this change put on hold until after the re-balancing of projectile weapons."
"this is a nonsense argument. the different tier battleships have different edges and drawbacks. drone bandwidth and drone bay size is among them. \"cuz i wantz\" has no argumentative value at all. if you want to fly a minmatar battleship with lots of drones: fly a typhoon. and when you do, don't come complaining that you want the typhoon to have 8 turret slots, because you trained large artillery to 5."
"i am so for this."
"it was suggested i move this thread to here so more people could see it.ccp, think you could allow the ability for us to put sub-folders in to the main folders in our bookmarks? it would only require a change to the folder system in people & places to allow folders within folders.reason i ask is i do a lot of mining on another char and he has bookmarks to certain spots in each belt he runs. so after loading up and warping to station i undock and warp to the next spot in the belt and start mining. problems is, when i have 5 bm's per belt and have 6 belts marked that's a lot of bm's that show up in the drop down menu. so if i could sub-folder those bm's in a main folder it would clean the ui and drop down menus some as to not have 30 bm's showing for the system.example of current set-upsystem x (folder)belt 1 spot 1belt 1 spot 2belt 1 spot 3belt 1 spot 4belt 1 spot 5belt 2 spot 1belt 2 spot 2belt 2 spot 3belt 2 spot 4belt 2 spot 5belt 3 spot 1belt 3 spot 2belt 3 spot 3belt 3 spot 4belt 3 spot 5example with sub-folders ( ) only opens when curser over them.system x (folder)belt 1 (sub-folder)( belt 1 spot 1)( belt 1 spot 2)( belt 1 spot 3)( belt 1 spot 4)( belt 1 spot 5)belt 2 (sub-folder)belt 3 (sub-folder)in the 1st example system x is the folder for mining in that system. after rolling over it on the drop down it opens to all the bm's for that system.in the second example system x is the main folder. belts 1 -3 are sub-folders inside the main folder and the bm's for each of those are located in the each of the sub-folders for their respective belts.just an idea to try and clean up the drop down menus and unclutter the people & places folder . tell me whats good and bad about it and see if we can come up with a better bm system"
"hello eve personalities,i, like many of you, am tired of motherships being crappy carriers. their poor jump range, grossly insufficient hp, comparatively tiny drone/sma/corphangers, and their inability to dock are driving me off the wall. the fact that they have been around for years and have only been nerfed is also pretty annoying. so, i am making a thread about it. many of you have probably read vuk laus thread on supercpas:"
"solution:increase the nyxs hp proportionally to its components or reduce its component construction requirments:2,625,000 armor3,000,000 structure1,755,000 sheilds at this point some of you are having a significant emotional event. thats so many f*&^ hit points etc. actually, its not. a nyx costs at best 17bil isk and a thanatos costs at worst 1bil isk. so for the price of a nyx you could deploy 17 thanatos class carriers or a total of:2,125,000 armor hp 2,550,000 structure1,700,000 sheild not to mention 170 fighters with max skills or 8.5 times the damage of a nyx and their ability to spider tank each-other for a vastly superior tank as well. proposal 3  capacity yo! boost that sh!tthe thanatos has a drone capacity of 100,000 m^3, a smb 1million m^3, and a corp hanger of 10,000m^3. it takes 68 drone bays, 14 maint bays, and 14 corp hanger bays to build it respectively. 1.5k m^3 per drone bay 71k m^3 per hanger bay 714m^3 per corp hanger bay the nyx has a drone capacity 250000 m^3, a smb of 2.5million m^3, and a corp hanger of 50,000 m^3. it takes 675 drone bays, 270 maint bays, and 270 corp hanger bays to build it respectively.370m^3 per drone bay9.2k m^3 per hanger bay 185 m^3 per corp hanger bayonce again we run into a serious imbalance. solution: a close to proportional increase in the values of all capacities.1mil m^3 drone bay 10mil m^3 sma200k m^3 corp hanger again before you all have a meltdown let me put these values in perspective. this would mean a nyx could carry 200 fighters (or ten waves), 20 battleships, and 25 large towers. 17 thanatos class carriers can carry 340 fighters, 34 bs, 21 large towers. proposal 4  let me dock my **** or let me switch my mods without needing a carrieri dont really understand the rational for not letting ms dock. they cant do anything that a carrier cant and they are hardly safer in 0.0 than a carrier. solution:let ms dock. if not than no ship with a fitting service should have to use another ship to do its fitting  thats just stupid. i mean youre within 5k of yourself right? many of you may argue that docking would make them invincible lowsec grapemobiles. i agree. however, that is an issue for a different thread  a ship that is able to drag in lowsec (perhaps a role for the blackops bs).[next page]"
"part dux  a new role for mothershipsnow on to the next portion of this proposal - finding a unique role or assigning a unique ability to ms that makes them worth their price  not crappy ecm burst or lol clone vat bay. i have had many internal discussions with my friends about what this role should be. at first i proposed a ms that could project a pos like forcefeild and act essentially as a mobile pos. the problem with this was a risk vs reward  with horrible jump range and weak shields the ms was at terrible risk for limited benefit. i have also heard the idea of an area effect tank or a healing field. the problem with this is inevitably it will be overpowered and make fleet fights about who has more repping ms on the field. the one idea i have heard that has appeal and makes sense to me is actually allowing ships to dock into the smb and to allow them to travel inside the ms as it jumps. to me this is the true role of a mother-ship. so how would i implement this unique ms ability.i would introduce a skill and a module that allows for conversion of the smb to a docking port. it would be a high slot item like the doomsday device and the jump bridge  ship docking port that converts 20% of a motherships smb to a no service docking port. each level of the skill would allow you to fit one additional ship docking port per level for a maximum of 5 (or 100% of your smb as a docking port). motherships would have an ability added that reduced the fitting cost of the ship docking port. this would allow only the mothership to fit this module and like its super capital counterpart (titans) it would have a unique module that didnt suck (lol remote ecm burst). some of you are already saying- what about jump bridges! we already have **** like this! the difference is obvious of course. the mothership must expose itself to on grid and actually travel to the system in question. also, it allows the mothership to support the ships that are on the field  but it has to sacrifice its support ability to carry more pilots. also bridges are limited only by range and the amount of stront a titan can carry to do them. this would be limited by the sma which i proposed be able to carry approx 20 bs. conclusion whether or not you agree with any figures i have proposed here i think a general consensus has been reached that motherships are horrible. i encourage ccp to consider what i have proposed but mostly i encourage them to take action in a timely manner, whatever that action may be. ms pilots have been hurt by game changes but have not been given compensation in any way. lastly, thanks for taking the time to read this."
"reserved"
"i've floated the idea about carriers and motherships being able to transport and deploy piloted ships for awhile...only makes sense. more so for the moms, though. it would add a whole new component to a hot drop...a capital fleet that can bring its own support? why hasn't this been done sooner?"
"hello tobruk,first off, about your number of components for effect (jump range, hp, etc), remember that 10x components doesn't equal 10x power. the nyx is above the thanatos, but much more expensive, making it a question of how much you want to do with it. it takes a lot of energy to get it to jump, so the lesser range kind of makes sense.that said, i do agree that motherships should be mobile stations, and would love to see that, but it's just not in the code. ccp has explained that there are many mechanical problems with such a concept (what happens if the pilot logs off? does the sma lose it's docking ability and expel ships into space?), et al.i agree that supercaps need some love, but right now it's hard to get it right. ccp does have a crack team looking at them, and i'm sure they'll find some abilities that aren't broken but are useful."
"this issue can be fixed using the existing game logic to a certain degree. i can understand the issue with the docking issue. one idea that will probably better fit into ccp's current game design is to create capital ship tractor beams which will allow friendly ships in range to activate the tow line. the players can break the tow line at anytime using the stop ship command. when the ms jumps, all ships attached to the tow line will also go into jump. the ships being towed will not be able to be targeted by any hostile forces however the tow range will be 5000m or so. also players being towed cannot engage any ships however they can be repaired by friendly players. also the tow line will allow pilots to equip modules in space.using such a setup, this should give players as close to a docking mechanism as possible."
"right on brother"
"an idea in the right direction. /signed + supported."
"signed and supported, all of your proposals tobruk,"
"interesting angles, i was brainstorming the other day with a few folks in a bit more conservative manner, and came up with this.mothershiphitpoints;structure x 1.25, armor x 1.55, shields x 1.55.corporate hangar capacity;100.000 m3.ship bay capacity;10.000.000 m3.jumprage;base increase to 7.0 lyspa's;yes, 3.remote ecm burst;option - base increase in range.option - scripting, to alternate between;- a focus against long range snipers,[/*]- a focus on disrupting the targeting of capital ships and- a focus on disrupting triage/siege processes of targeted ships.jump portal;yes, little guys need to be able to bite into big guys on every level and stab them in the back. it would be an option to restrict the use to mass, or even shipclass. proper clone vat bays;seriously, like a station service in space; an isk sink or even consumable item angle of a cloning license is not a wierd idea.spa (special purpose array, a healthy feature. based on fuel bay codebase)capacity;250.000 m3, restricted to specific types of cargo.extended access range:15k base for titan, 25k base if \"mounted\" on a mothership.related skill bonus;5k range bonus per level for racial titan skill.7.5k range bonus per level for racial carrier skill (since there is no mothership skill, gets complicated).access;enabled/disabled via ship configuration menu to fleet members.configuration;restriction specified/enabled/disabled via ship configuration menu.available options for configuration;ammunition & charges, drones, ship equipment."
"there does need to be a very significant increase in hp, these ships are simply no fun, and for all cost of building one it should be able to survive longer than 45 seconds when shot at by 10 dreads"
"this seems to make a lot of sense, supported."
"well constructed thread, i'm not sure about the specialrole, i mean that's what it should be, but i'm not sure abotu the technalities as poitned out by others. but this is not the job of csm/players, raise it (as well as the other vuk lau thread about caps) and we will see,"
"would love a massive hp and tanking boost on mom's tbh"
"i support this, motherships are completely worthless right now. if they added to the remote ecm burst with scripts or something to make it perform other tasks, such as an area effect neut, a focused ability to prevent the target being remote repped or somethings like these that would make them much more useful in large fights. the ability to put up a force field like a pos, when activating a module would also be pretty useful (if you could shoot out of the field but not in). it could anchor the ms in space (much like a siege/triage module) and once broken, the ms would be stuck there defenseless."
"i support all these changes but not before tobruk loses his nyx in some obscenely embarassing fashion."
"i agree that jump-range and the hp need an increase. as the ship does not surve any interesting purpose, at least let it jump far. i think that the idea about towing ships would be very interesting. however i do not think that area of effect repait module would be overpowered if you imply one/both of the folowing limitations/drawbacks:1: it heals everything in range, hostiles, drones, everything2: they get nerfed as they stack, like the magstabs and other weapon upgrade, so using more then 3 stacked motherships would be near useless.3: to avoind the repairs being overpowered for small ships, and being useless for battleships and capitals, we dive it dencity. yes, dencity. it will work like missiles. for missile, damage inflicted depends on signiture radius. so the bigger the ship the more it get's repped. description for the module: \"ejects a cloud of nanites that attach to and repair all nearby starships and drones. due to size limitations it is impossible to inbuild friend or foe identification system into the nanites, and so even hostiles in the radius will be repaired.\"more suggestions, using same principle:area of effect eccm, get's nerfed when several of them are stacked. area of effect sensor boosters.aoe energy transfer.remote volumetric energy neutroliser.remote/aoe capacitor dampener- would reduce capacitor regeneration of everything in the area. these modules should have large capacitor and/oe powergreed requirments, to avoid too many of them bein used on single shipall these modules affact both friendlies and hostiles.they would make motherships unique and usefull."
"motherships really need an overhaul atm, the advantages which they used to have really been overtaken by new ships being introduced.the anti-scram ability is as usefull as nothing atm due to almost everyone being able to fly heavy dictors or normal dictors.the jump clone vat bay is useless as you migh just as well use a rorqual which is 15 times cheaper (and it has a longer jumprange).couple that with the small tank and you have an overpriced carrier. you could better use 16 carriers for the price of a mothership imho (it's not like your going to get the electronic warfare to disable a team like that, one of the apparent benefits of the mothership).so in the end a big yes to change and i must say i like your ideas.my own idea though on the mothership would be to change it into a advanced command ship kind of type ship which would include these things:- more jumprange than carriers- lots more sma space- able to dock- lose the jump clone vat bays- less fighters (make the carriers more assault orientated)- able to fit capital command mods (significant bonuses but only one can be activated per mothership per fleet as the total fleets bonuses)- more cargo space so it can carry multiple pos towers (say 3 large ones)- pos fuel bay which allows tons of fuel to be taken with the mom- enable it to use covert jump portals so that it can be used as an invasion spearhead.- reduce the cost a little bit but not too muchwhat this would form is a ship in the form of a mobile invasion base which can be used to invade jammed systems and take a sizeable fleet with it. this would mean that you can plant a mobile invasion platform in a jammed system."
"nyx's are the worst motherships, sorry.as for your changes they don't really fix anything. motherships need to be able to move while in triage (otherwise carriers will always be better at repping), need to have 1/2 the cap charge for remote reps (so they can still rep and run a good tank), and need to receive 2 or 3 times as much remote repping so that primaring them in a group of carriers / motherships is a bad idea (instead of giving them a hp buff to make them more solo boats). i also think that they should be immune to dictor and hictor bubbles, but not to the focus points. this way if they're with a fleet the hictors have to decided between tackling the mothership or tackling the entire fleet."
"i think your arguments about stats per component are sort of doomed to failure - they're picked based on game balance, not flavour. that aside, i like most of the ideas here, both tobruk's and dragon greg's. hp buffs, corp hangar increases, some method of doing something bridge-like(my preferred method is to have it carry pods with it through a cyno, so it can \"bridge\" a gang as long as that gang fits in the sma), and other things of that type. supported."
"hmmm.... yes"
"i don't fly supercaps myself but moms currently look like e-peen extensions similar to t3 cruisers. no, they're not bad but so completely not worth the expense, they're more akin to gold-plated mobile phones than useful tools. sure, many people can afford it but why pay for something so marginally better from disposable carriers?"
"this is clearly an idea intended to reduce risk for pvp attackers to zero. full surprise and anonymity every time you're in a mood to pew pew someone? it's a ridiculous idea obviously supported by people unable to effectively counter a) effort b) organization. there are alliances and corporations which care about the space they live in, which mine and rat. forcing them to constantly spam refresh on a scanner (or worse have a buddy watching probes all the time) is such a moronic idea gameplay-wise that i can hardly believe anyone can support it.get a clue 'pvp hax0rs'! 0.0 with even more pointless risk added will become deserted. it will be a huge, empty wormhole with gates where random pvp in small ships happens once in a long while."
"shift drag, like splinting a stack would be nice. then it wouldn't fill all slots, but would still make it faster to fit my ship."
"edit: made a boo boo. might fix later. not supported."
"... make it so ..."
"i dont really know if anyone will read this but its worth a try. i have been waiting for ccp to differentiate the original blueprints from copies and for some reason it hasnt been done yet. i dont understand just a small symbol on the blueprint would solve many people's problems and yet after 3 years of playing eve it hasnt been done.its such a simple matter and causes trouble to so many people scams are performed every day and makes it hard to find your original blueprint among all your copies. its madeness.thank you for your attention."
"ok, this is a very simple idea so i'll try to make this brief to avoid tl;dr.currently: target painters are weak.proposal: instead of the current percentage increase in signature radius, make it a static value. that is, no matter what you activate your target painter on, it gets the same increase in signature radius.reasoning: target painters increase the \"size\" of the target, making it easier to lock and hit. which targets are usually hard to lock or hit? small targets. which targets take the least increase in signature radius by a module increasing it by a percentage? targets that already have a small signature radius. which targets take the largest percentage increase in signature radius from having a static value added to their signature radius? targets that have a small signature radius.thus, the proposed changes should, with sufficient tweaking, make target painters a viable counter or at least utility against smaller ships (frigates, small cruisers).implications:ships that already use the module, dispite it's common recognition as underpowered, will obviously be buffed. this relates especially to stealthbombers.ships that currently rely on signature radius to negate damage will be subject to an indirect nerf through the introduction of another viable answer. this relates to frigates, minmatar t2 cruisers (vagabond, schimitar) and possibly (vanilla, not heavy) interdictors.ships that receive bonus to target painters are (obviously) buffed. especially remote sensor boosted frigates (the hyena specifically) with target painters could become too effective against small targets."
"supporting my own idea."
"why so complicated? it is far easier to balance, by just doing both. a static increase and a percentage increase. smaller percentage than now and small static than with your system. small ships and drones would become proportionally much larger, yet not so large that they'd have no chance any more at all, while large ships would not yet become insanely huge."
"i'd argue that your proposal is more complicated, but anyway as i see it, the implications of my proposal depends a lot on the amount chosen. if the amount is too low, we get the same result as before. if the amount is too high, the implications increase in severity."
"if they will become statick, and we increase sise by let's say 30 meters, that is alot for a t2 frigate or sector, but that is nothing if you are in torp raven and are fighting another bs.the idea with mix of both- it is kind of wired but i think it is a good idea, so we make it more effective gainst small ships by adding a statick bonus to sig radius, and leave the percentage as it is for it to stay effective against bs's an d crosuers for torp ravens, drakes, so on.they are currently underpowered because: a t1 stasis webb halfs your speed. that means twice more trouble for you. it has range of 10 kilometers. a t1 painter increases your sig radius by 25%, that's 25% more trouble for a small ship, as opposed to twice more trouble from a webb. thta makes painter 4 times less effective. a target painter has radius of 20 kilometers, so to make it balanced we need a t1 target painter to give a 50% increase, to give you the same amount of effishiency compared to range."
"tps are fine. they have a much greater range compared to webs...also, they help against self-created transversal, unlike webs. if you're the one creating the transversal, then webs are useless."
"not supported... i'm quite satisfied with the tp..."
"if you try to fit it with active tank + gang mod then you have cpu and cap problems. (unless you have billions of isk for better modules)if you try it to fit it with passive buffer tank, mwd, and gang mod, then you have power grid problems.i support this thread. a 300m isk ship should work much better then a 30m isk ship"
"supporting not to let ccp dismiss the issue they promised to look into."
"currently the minmatar station is the only outpost which does not is designed as to fit in it's role. it looks like some kind of deep space gas station but is actually the outpost which provides a basic refinery.next to that i feel when it is compared to the other outposts it doesn't look as great and inspired as them.this is really shameful because the other outposts look so great and role defined.so for comparison:the caldari research outpostit looks like a deep space research outpost and totaly fits within the caldari design philosophy of high tech and less design.the gallente administrative outpostthis outpost really looks what it was build for, a collection of offices. the metropolitan skysc****r really fits into the purpose and it just looks damn good.the amarr factory outpostbasicly this is the best looking outpost around looking more like a spaceship/factory hybrid than anything else. next to that it fits perfectly within the theme of the empire amarr stations.the minmatar service outpostwell... i can't say much more than that it looks well uninspirational. not only does the name already make me wonder what it is meant for (its a mining outpost though) but the design isn't really impressive.all the other outposts made me give it a good look and just like the first time you see a capital ship look up on it in awe. well with the minmatar station it took me more time looking for its pretty side than really being impressed (yes i know beauty is in the beholder's eye but this design doesn't make sense vs its function)my idea:change the minmatar design completely to make it correspond with the other minmatar stations and with its function.the station should look more industrial, more within its role and overall more minmatar.what i suggest first is rename it to minmatar astrosurveying outpost or even simpler minmatar mining outpost.the design proposal:the design should look industrial and more aimed towards mining operations.basicly take a flat platform at which the main structures are hung. an hangar is attached on the underside of the platform with an entrance for general ships to dock.as an visual effect just above on the platform should be multiple industrial loading points with cranes or robotic arms which are serving for unloading of big cargo ships. scattered around this area one could find several storage depots. this would take about 60% of the platform.the 40% of the platform would be a huge tower intersecting with the platform. this would be the visual housing for the refinery and factory with chimneys on top and to the sides of it completing the look of an industrial base.imagine a industrial looking tower with a platform hung around it which serves as docking and unloading/loading.unfortunately i'm not a very good sketcher otherwise i would have made a nice little drawing priority:now of course i know the priority on this is quite low but it bugs me how this made it into game while the other outposts look 10 times better and more fitting within the theme.tl;dr:change the look of the minmatar space station because its ugly compared to the other outposts.any support, comments, or constructive criticism is welcome."
"it's so frustrating to have so many items in my hangers and no way to package them so they stack.surly eve would prefer less items to manage :)"
"i have been thinking the past few days about jump clones.as all of you already know, you can only jump between jump clones once every 24 hours.but alot of people like to create adittional jump clones for safety and less risk.lets say you have a clone with a whole set of +5 implants and hardwires, im sure you are very carefull with that.usually people have 1 clone with implants and expansive stuff and another clone which is really cheap like +2 implants or something similar closeby for when they go to a battle or operation with alot of risk.now my idea was, i sujest the following: would it be a good idea to add free jumps between clones as long they are only 1 or 2 jumps away.this is a very good idea because people could place 2 clones close next to eachother for safety.if someone wants to go offline and use the best out of his implants he can go into his jump clone with implants and if he will enter dangerous operations or actions such as pvp he could use a clean clone just 1 jump away.im sure nobody wants to rebuy a whole set of +5 implants because he just lost a pvp with it.any comments or ideas on this are welcome !"
"ccp should be able to check who the dropped mods went to.yep, agreed."
"op has a good point. in some ways, you could consider what happened an exloit, so taking the modules back isn't so bad."
"reimbursement means that ccp admits that something was not right. this should mean that you get all your stuff back. this i support because the opposite is just stupid.it's also very difficult to abuse that as i assume that reimbursed losses are thoroughly investigated and very difficult to fake."
"i shall cast my name among those who think this should be a low-slot module and a rig. i cant see myself using the low-slot mod often, but if its only a few mil i can definatley see myself using a drone bay extending rig."
"their seems to be rigs for everything except drones so i support this."
"not supported.there are too many automated warning popups in this game as it is, they just get in the way of most users.stupid and/or drunk people always make poor decisions. let them."
"this i have to support as well as the popup window blocks the the user input until the popup is clicked. so i'm kinda voting against myself here now. however it would still be nice to get some more info about the system that i am about to jump in before i jump the gate instead of after jumping. something like the mapbrowser but then with filters like the normal map has..."
"the best solution would still be, if gates displayed the security of the system they go to. right in their name. if you want in (), [], or <>. i don't care.another workaround would be a right-click option of \"set gate target as waypoint\". that way the sec rating of the next system would be displayed, too."
"supported. simple addition to the game and very useful.was going to bring this up myself.supporting the whole story of eve and how far in the future the story is set,it would be reasonable to assume that the space vessels in eve are technologically advanced enough that their systems could be entered with almost any number and variety of warnings.to those who don't support this idea because of 'too many warnings already in game' there is an option....in all of the 'pop-up' warnings and introductory windows....where it says....\"do not display this message again\""
"not supported.in the military we had a phrase - \"situational awareness\"employ some on your own behalf."
"supported"
"nope... if you are smart enought to get your security status that fouled up, you should be smart enough to know either how to avoid getting shot or to know you can't go there any more.no way"
"you mean like the \"set as first waypoint\" option that already exists?"
"aesthetics cannot be discussed objectively, as they are per definition a matter of opinion. i am however of the opinion that the myr, and especially the brutix are very good looking. of course the thread here is actually about a balanced introduction of new t2 ships, and as such debating aesthetics derails the debate.back on topic. thinking about it, it is hard to introduce more ewar ships that make sense. introducing a tankable ewar ship could well make recons obsolete, unless they are gimped in some way, like marauders sensor strength (which is a horrible way to nerf an entire ship class, btw). what i would like to see from the ships introduced into eve in the future is versatility. the most versatile ships we have available today would, by my count, be drone boats, such as the dominix, vexor or typhoon. to a lesser extent, the more potent gunboats, such as the apocalypse or the megathron, also display some versatility in being able to compete with several distinct outfits. looking at the overall picture, gallente have the edge with respect to versatility, while caldari especially have very few ships that can perform with several different setups. take caldari bs as an example. the rokh is a born sniper, but i have heard it can perform decently at closer ranges with blasters as well. the raven has two choices for armaments and tank - torps or cruise, and plate or active shield. the scorpion is mostly used as either all-out ewar or all-out tank bait. the above is just my view and i readily admit i could know a lot more about caldari ships but i still believe it correct. with regard to the versatility of droneboats, the principal cause is a very large dronebay i believe - the ability to get a decent and reliable damage output from the drone bay alone frees up the highslots to do pretty much whatever."
"all affecting skills would be even more useful, yes. a full upgrade is better than just the most necessary."
"i support changing sov mechanisms to be less painful.but as for adding space, i'd only support one or two western regions to remove fountain's monopoly on all the worthwhile space in western 0.0. and it feels like there actually isn't enough 0.0 in the west."
"csm3 meeting #3, sunday june 21st 17:00the second issues meeting of csm3 on june 21st at 17:00.issue submission deadline will be june 20th 17:00items on the agenda:1: client modification (maz)2: share dividends payout value (oz)3: zoom buttons (dv)4: manufacturing and invention at poses (meissa)5: armageddon day (vuk)6: what is in the works for fw (erik)7: solution to macro haulers (maz)8: corp interface overhaul (dv + maz)9: show implants on pod killmails (meissa)10: more orbit range options (erik)11: remove pause for jc and implants (meissa)12: pos labs and assemblies use by corp and alliance (meissa)"
"i vote for the immediate, remote destruction of all jump clones and the disabling of all jump clone manufacturing equipment!"
"agreed, please bring back the old cap jump animation."
"what they all said and more of that plz."
"/signed. i want flashy pimped cap ships!"
"supported"
"supported. frigates are one of the most fun ship classes to fly, and i thoroughly enjoy my time in af so far. however, they are certainly lacking when compared to the other t2 ships.i've only ever really flown gallente and amarr, so i will comment on my ideas for these two race's ships.enyo: bump the optimal range bonus up to frigate and add a 5% bonus to armor repair amount per af level.ishkur: again, bump optimal range bonus up to frigate and add a 5% drone mwd speed bonusretribution: 5% bonus to small energy turret rate of fire in the frigate bonuses.vengeance: 5% bonus to launcher rate of fire in the frigate bonuses."
"1.0"
"there's nothing wrong with making non aggressed logistic characters work a little harder for it. also, we already see everyone using plated rr bs, and if we start to see blobs of 10 logistic cruisers, then i applaud the people who put that together. they came prepared. i doubt we'll be seeing that with any regularlity, however."
"fair enough. just as long as we don't hear complaints about it later."
"bump"
"/agreed"
"friendly nudge to a pretty good idea."
"castrate the veldatar of all combat capabilities and bring him to amarr as a living tourist attraction.not a real issue there but hey, chribba is creating a lot of fun stuff for you ccp, why not reciprocate?"
"let him have it.and if people really dont like it... just war deck him. he cant use ddd in high sec anyway.either that or bait him to get concord on him and watch them despawn before the titan dies :p"
"yes, but:first ccp must build a shrine to veldspar in one of the amarr belts, and the veldatar would be permanently parked near the shrine. the belt would be the property of a new temple (npc amarr religiuos subsect) of veldspar and unminable for normal players (silly mortals). it could also have a gigantic veldspar roid (unminable) sitting nearby or smth."
"because of veldspar!...and eve files....and trust...and entertainment...and the insanity of getting a veld tatt"
"**** yes, love it"
"supported for much needed drone love :(. hell just being able to see done health in the bay would be a positive step. but most importantly, taking the advantage of drones away from everyone and centering it around drone-specialized ships. that would be superb."
"i want:drone implantsfaction/named/t2 modulesmore drone related modulesfaction battleship geared towards drones...just like every other weapon system currently in game."
"the only thing this game doesnt need for 200% is ui-player made modifications."
"yesterday i came across someone who was using what he called an addon for eve.he has a (bloody) massive gaming rig, with multi monitor setup, and runs 1 client per screen for a total of 8. he controls one eve client, and the other clients are controlled through what he calls mouse cloning (yes, raised an eyebrow here too).effectively speaking every movement or action made by his mouse controlling that first eve client is replicated / mirrored / cloned to all his other clients. so, by doing his thing on one client he is getting the other 7 to do exactly the same.i'm pretty sure this is 100% against the eula. he claims it is not a macro which uses repetitive keyboard strokes or mouse movements, he plays eve \"like anyone else\" with the bonus that his multi clienting goes \"a lot faster\".i claim this falls within the mention in the eula of \"patterns of play\". a brief discussion in the public csm channel in game yielded agreements on my interpretation here.the software he uses is a tool which was developed for wow (yes, yuk) but as he points out it works fine for eve as well. the software itself was at first outlowed by blizzard, but after adaptations they allowed it, go figure.it is now marketed as an \"addon\" for the game.now, first of all i do hope ccp pick up on this new kind of crap and put some specifications in the eula to disallow \"mousecloning\" or include a specification for that \"patterns of play\" part.secondly, it just makes me think \"can of worms\" thinking of definitions of addon and customisation and all that, yet here we are actually considering this kind of stuff. seriously, if you were even to consider the ideas of addons and customisations seriously the only way to prevent this kind of crap would be a ccp equivalent of how apple handles iphone applications. certification, strict control, indescriminate banning of aps, pure commercial operation. that makes it just that, something which if dubious crap has to be prevented has to be ran as or like a commercial program. do we really want something like that around eve?not me."
"i don't get why so much hate against this idea.. if ccp does this right it won't make any difference whatsoever, except in the accessibility of client features. for example:let people not use right click menus if they don't like them. you still can if you like them.let people not click 20 times per invention job if they don't want to. you still can if you like to.let people sort their overviews/fleet windows/broadcasts/watch lists/targets the way they want to. you can still use the default if you like it so much.let people move ship/warp with hotkeys, instead of navigating that old, used up right-click menu, where a couple pixels in a random direction accidentally get you killed for jumping to cyno instead of opening a bridge. it almost sounds like we're playing some twitch shooter game where we hunt pixels with railguns...these are the kind of changes people want here, not macros, or even automation of things. it's just stuff like gun stacking. why would you have to click 8 times/press 8 hotkeys if you can do it with one click/hotkey.also wouldn't it be nice, if you didn't need eft to fit your ship, you'd have a \"virtual fitter\" in the client itself? with an \"apply fit to ship\" button? automatically updated with new stats whenever there's a patch, no need to wait for weeks till new eft is out? but ccp isn't going to do this for you, they've got more important stuff going on than your spaceship, and what it can or can't fit.another good feature i can think of is fitting ships by copy pasting eft stuff, again something that ccp will never do, even though it would be pretty easy to put in now that save/load fitting is there. there's a metric crapton of things like this that do absolutely nothing to gameplay itself, but improve the game immensely.and to everyone bringing up \"oh, but then it'll be required to use this crap and that mod and blabla oh and yadayada to be competetive\", i'm pretty impressed you're still playing this game. teamspeak, forums, killboards, evemon, eft, mypos, i could go on forever.these are all \"3rd party mods\" to the game. tell me when was the last time you undocked in a setup, not carefully thought out in eft? when was the last time you spent money on modules, just to see that they don't fit on the ship? when was the last time you put skills to train before checking evemon+eft if it's actually worth the time? to be quite honest, i don't remember either.once you stop using all of the above and whatever others you might be using, you can start whining about client modifications, because in the end, it is the exactly same thing. you have an \"advantage\" because you used something not made by ccp to make sure your setup/skills are optimal. or are you now going to ban all these as well? yeah, i didn't think so.edit: and don't even let me get started about the api, the thing that exists because of 3rd party proggies, which obviously suggests ccp is fond of people making things easier for themselves..."
"so has the csm heard about this yet, is maz going to champion this?"
"common people help find more people to sign this."
"the main offenders that come to mind are the amarr factory outpost and the caldari research outpost. the caldari post's undock point is particularly hilarious, you get kicked out about 3km outside the dock radius. most stations in the game allow enough of a dock radius that if you dont aggress and keep mashing the dock button, you can redock if there's a station camp. since the scientists of new eden have yet to perfect glass windows, undocking blindly and being unable to redock if there's some dude camping the undock is about as fun as a kick to the head. i'm sure there's some other npc stations with terrible undocks, but for me \"which undock are we not going to worry about getting killed on\" shouldn't be an issue when alliances are debating which type of egg to build."
"agreed"
"you can undock?"
"this is currently totally out of wack and really needs changing. for this making an influence on the the choice of outposts is just plain wrong.next to that they should really also review the npc ones as well as some allow you to move about 25 km away from the undocking point while others only give you 3 km."
"i hereby cosponsor this proposal."
"that, or give us windows"
"all my thumbs."
"fix it and fix the scale on the caldari outposts."
"this post has been cleared of inappropriate content.regards,the eve online moderation team"
"yes, these docking radiuses are dumb and don't make any sense."
"this here looks like a zastrow"
"votin zastrow 09."
"15w- my precious toliet bowl ring of a kick out stationsupporting"
"shrink that hilariously vast gallente undock radius too and we're in business."
"while we're at it, let's give stations more than one undock point. seems more efficient that way."
"please god! and not just some, most. i was in kor-azor space last night and bumped an abaddon 40km off the edge of a station but it still showed at 0m allowing him to dock. all the caldari stations need to be looked at along with most of the amarr and minmatarr. most of the gal stations are reasonable but there might be one or two models which could use some trimming.i'm fine with windows as a substitute, as long as they only show ship models not anything you'd get from your overview :)"
"why not just make all stations death traps?i'll support your idea but only in regards to player made outposts, and only because they should all be equivalent. as far as npc stations go, no support. i've recently learned that \"spamming the warp button\" equates to skill when it concerns avoiding getting podded, and since being able to recognize safe/deathtrap stations from the picture in the showinfo window takes like 10k times as much \"skill\" (as in, it actually requires a modic.um of thought and experience/knowledge), i see no reason why death trap stations should be made easy mode for the newbs who lack \"skill\"."
"raj, you're just crabby because no one liked your idea that pods should instawarp away from being killed in low-sec space.it was a crappy idea. get over it and move on."
"actually it's a great idea with no virtual no drawbacks. probably the greatest single suggestion in the history of the assembly hall. if not #1, easily top 5. minor correction to be fair, my idea was that pods piloted by newbs should insta-warp away precisely like every single pod piloted by a non-newb currently insta-warps away preventing them from being killed in low sec space. the reasoning is pretty sound, non-newbs who already inhabit low sec already have this benefit, the newb's who would actually be gaining anything at all from the change are the people who currently do not and will not step foot into lowsec without some method to mitigate the risk of losing their pods, ie their head full of +5 implants, and no, they will not go into low sec and learn the \"hard way\" how to avoid losing their pods."
"boost piracy"
"supported for industry, trade and mining update!"
"nothing in eve happens at any great speed.i'd love to see some more love on the industry front or maybe even some fiddling with the wh setup so that we see some more t3 action."
"^this^"
"good to see your still around lavista."
"i approve of this!"
"i don't have any shares. but i still support the death of the signed 32-bit integer variable."
"supportsilly coding bux with what should be an easy fix"
"i support this initiative fully."
"in my eagerness i forgot to give the thumbs up."
"wow maths, umm yes?"
"no brainer! standing slots are a chore and pos access and coordination is no fun either."
"yes please! in eve passwords can fall into the hands of the enemy so fast it's not even funny."
"no pos pass should stay as it isthink should not be made to easy to defend"
"it's odd that everything else pos-like is set via standings, but not the actual shield. perhaps a toggle on whether you want the single pos to be controlled via password or standings, and make it default to standings?not sure, i support the idea though!"
"supported"
"got my vote"
"very supported!"
"i don't imagine all that many people would use it, but it'd be really nice for the people who would. supported."
"i'd hit it."
"yep, good option for the bookmark enthusiasts."
"i could see this being usefulsupported"
"very useful idea."
"i've wanted this for a while."
"this plus a right click \"move too\" item that lets you shift around things like bookmarks to different sub-folders and or people in your address book.particularly when you have hundreds."
"i heard some good ideas here, but some go a little bit too far. i fly a nyx for nearly 2 years now so i got some ideas myself:in a bigge battle the whole bs/supportcrew crew is busy managing the overview,remote repping aligning and what not so they are not always controlling their drones propperly. a cool thing would be if the ms could take control over the drones in this squad (from every squadmember) in addition to his own. that way a ms gets a lot of more dps, but its not gonna be a single pownmobil if it flys around solo. so only a group makes it stronger. that should count for players + drones on grid and maybe take fighters out of this. for example 20 fighters from a nyx + 45 warrior t2. that would give the ms the chance to kill dictors and hictors on his own without yelling for rescure.another nice thing would be to increase the % of their abilitys. for example a nyx get 5% dmg bonus to drone dmg, it like to see it up to 7,5%also, some skills supporting fightes would be great or apply fighters for the existing ones, but i think that would be to much of a boost for fighters. like create a skill \"fighter specialisation\" which boost their dmg,tracking,speed,hp by 1 % per level.ms do not need to dock, it would be easier i know, but its ok the way it is.last but not least. increase their drone-control range, that they are able to use their standart drones in their whole lockrange. oh and take cloak penalties away from them, so they can lock faster ;)i guess these should be some \"balanced\" ideas to start with."
"that would turn a mothership into an anti support platform, and a team of motherships under a cyno jammer an extremely powerful anti support platform. any hostiles would have to not just dodge a dozen titans, but any dictors they bring to creatively hamper titan deployments would be rendered, well, dead very quickly. that seems a bit ... over the top."
"as i said, you will need your squadmembers on grid and ofc outside the forcefield shields. so as soon as one guy out of his squad dies,warps, hides under the forcefield he looses the 5 drones instantly. so that means that ms allone won<U+FFFD>t work. they need to have their mates around themselves. i am actually not adding any damage at all, i just increase the efficency. if u still think that this is too much, u can also combine it with the drone control mods. so if u want to take over the drones of 2 of your mates you need to fit 1 drone control mod. trust me every highslot from a ms is very important and is highly connected to their chance of getting out. theres also plenty of ways to counter that feature aswell, for example: bombs, smartbombs etc.and you bascily gave the ship a role \" anti support plattform\"; works fine for me, compared to the amout of money you invest it is supposed to be giving out a lot of dps or highly increase the efficency of your gang/fleet.hicors were mentioned a lot in this topic aswell, so my ideas on this: the only defence against hictors with scripts are the neutz at the moment. since they are too fast with mwd on, at least for fighters/heavys. so 1 hic already can get you into big trouble. so i<U+FFFD>d like to see the officer web range increased again also (30/25/20/15). that would make sure that they have a chance to kill the hictor. hics usually have enough hp to survive fighters for 30 seconds to turn of script and get remote repped."
"0.0 in \"supposed to be dangerous\" shocker.it's absurd that the intel provided by local is freely available. scouting should be difficult, it should require practice and skill and it should be a viable career path, with competent scouts being of critical importance to any corp. instead, with local giving free intel at the flick of an eye muscle, it's devalued to \"stick an alt in that system and wait\". stupid."
"again...if only a local count was displayed what is the problem?eve=supposedly dynamic.current local intel=ccp hand-holding device for those too lazy to scout/use scanner.it is interesting to note that those against a local change are alts or from alliances with generally dismal track records (note generally kthx). you don't see the more experienced and proven combat corps against a local change (your snigg's, kenny's (or whoever) and various other space conquering types).i want the option to turn my iff off thanks muchly ."
"outlaws should be able to deactivate their \"iff\"."
"drop local then boost 0.0 rat bounties by oh 500% of sorisk vs reward rite"
"oh yeah this too"
"there is a problem with station docking mechanics which results in a very common phrase \"docking games\". the problem is that for a capital ship, battleship or other well tanked ship it is very common that even if they aggress, they can de-aggress and still have plenty of time to dock. this makes it safe for these ships to wait by a station, aggress any target that comes into range, and have an \"out\" if things get too hot. i propose that if a ship aggresses, any aggression by or against that ship should extend the timer; the change here is that aggression against the ship extends the timer as well. so, if a carrier is sitting outside a station happily attacking any and all battleships which come in range, he should be prevented from docking (because he aggressed) as long as somebody is still shooting at him.it's too safe now; make it an all in or an all out situation. it's still opt-in, as the pilot has to aggress to start the timer.please be clear that i don't advocate a pilot being prevented from docking because he is being aggressed; it is the combination of aggressing and subsequently being aggressed that should trigger this condition."
"just as soon as i can look out the station windows... or view the station as though i were flying it, which would likely be much easier to implement.on a separate topic, you need to make a second post to support your own idea... crazy as it is."
"i don't think you read the whole post. i don't think you should be prevented from redocking if you are attacked by a large camp upon undocking. i think you should be prevented from redocking if you undock, make an attack, and then attempt to redock. it's all hinged upon the pilot who performs an aggressive act -- if you don't, then no change from the current rules, you're free to dock.but, i'm all for knowing who's outside the station first -- that, however, is a separate topic that really has nothing to do with this topic.edit: on a side note, i don't have to immediately post to support my post if i can count on someone to not read the original."
"i tend to agree...being the subject of said docking games...if your going to undock...and attack... you should be barred from redocking.period.if you don't attack... well... still not so fun or nice but at least you didn't agress.supported as its a bit of a quick fix."
"hmm, i think that this should be implemented. far too often is it just hit-and-run games. it should be when you attack, you either a: warp away to run away or b: fight it out and live/die.current mechanics are pretty fubared on this. support given.--isaac"
"no brainer. unless it's a 'sneaky' way for ccp to actively encourage scams. change the color, add a green frame, whatever. just make bpos and bpcs obviously different."
"this has been asked for before. basically, either ccp would have to rewrite their database code fairly significantly, or they'd have to add in a check, every time you load an item icon of any type, to see if it's a copy. the first is a lot of work, the second is a lot of lag, and thus they do neither. it sucks(oh god, does it suck), but it's not going to change any time soon."
"not worth asking for again... its been asked of so many bloody times its starting to annoy me.not supporting because ccp said no..and they will say no again.not that i'm disagreeing... its just that the powers that be have spoken."
"i never saw it, so im going to support it"
"actually they did mention it is not possible but it makes me wonder how hard it actually is.since you already have it saying copy or original in the description why is it impossible to make a call using this exact mechanic to display the correct picture? now that wouldn't cause a lot more lag than it already does now.so in all supporting this because it would be really useful."
"what he said.however, signed just because some day they will have to find a solution.[ edit ]here's the original thread: make bpos and bpcs distinguishable"
"features and ideas discussion forumcommonly proposed ideascheck it before posting the same suggestion for the hundredth time.and here for the bpo/bpc thread linked in post 12 of the commonly proposted ideas thread."
"the increased trouble of hitting small targets only comes when usign oversized guns. nerfing small ships by giving them massive signiture radius increases is the result of being too damn lazy to fit guns or missiles that are suited to the task of hitting smaller targets. torp ravens shouldnt be able to hit crows at high speed, and neither should megathrons fitted with 425's or maelstrom' with 1400's. the supposed \"inferiority\" of target painting as compared to webbing that you state is more than mollified by the fact that painters have up to ten times the range of webs. a 25% bonus at 80km is better for fleet warfare than a 50% bonus at 10km, simply because the increased range increases the survivability of the ship using the painter. making the tp as effective in terms of chance to hit increase as the web would make the webber rediculously overpowered, as even middling meta-level painters have optimals of 50+ km and then falloff on top of that.not supported for two reasons overall. 1=painters are fine as they are, learn to use them, i sure as hell have no trouble.2=small ships *really* dont need nerfing. if you dont have the energy to fit 6 or 8 smaller guns so you can hit the damn things i dont see why they should suffer for your lazyness."
"i'm not entirely sure this is a rebuke to my initial statement or if it's for maxsim, but in any case:i did mention as an implication in the op that this would nerf smaller ships. perhaps i did not get the message through that this is not my intention with the proposal, but rather a side effect of trying to make target painters a more popular tool. given the feedback here, it's pretty clear that target painters are seeing some use, which is not what i expected. i'm not entirely sure the range argument actually applies to tq, but as theory i can see the sense in it. note that i didn't set the stage for comparing target painters to webs though - it was never my intention to bring tp's \"in line\" with webs.thank you for your feedback - i appreciate learning what tps are actually used for - but please keep the tone sensible. as far as i can tell, we've got a good discussion going here - there is no need to be offended."
"not supported.thus would just destroy difference between shiptypes.you would be able to rock any shiptype with big guns.i think feature is intended to be this way for that particular reason."
"what he/she means is you obviously don't know how to use them..and thus your proposal is bunk.they work just fine at short range... or long range... i use them frequently.the only thing that should be fixed imho is the obvious fact that 8 1400mm cannons at point blank range should be able to shred anything in front of their immediate firing arc... but they miss.... this is a seperate issue... nothing to do with tp's.you do know there's 2 skill books you can train back to back to ramp up the bonuses right?"
"i wasnt, i was just very very tired :)since the general nano/web nerf tp's have in my experience been used more and more often, especially on specialised ships such as the rapier (before the nerf it was a case of \"tplol\") as, relative to webbing, they can now provide a noticeable buff to counter-support work. i personally use them quite often, even against large ships such as carriers and so forth, as they can, to a small degree, counter the utter fail that are citadel torpedoes. they are also useful for engaging nano-ships at ranges beyond the 50-ish km maximum range of webbers on specialised ships, as they provide the same effect agaisnt the ships without having to close with them, which with ships that are made of paper and glue (rapier, huginn and so on) is a beautiful thing. they are not seeing the kind of use that they could, but this is because the old disdain of the tp still prevails, rather than any actual inadequacy of the module itself.and in addendum, unintentional nerf's are still nerf's unfortunately, i understand you want to see a \"useless\" mod get used, but i like my little ships rather a lot :)"
"i've seen tp's melt an machricals hull like it was butter.2 ships tp'ing with 5 drones tp'ing and suddenly one easily little ship would just tear it to ribbons.trust me... the tp is just fine.(we where messing around with the tp's :o) )"
"an exceedingly stupid idea. a static increase in sig of, say, 50 m would be useless on bs, being ~12% of their 400 m sigs, overpowered vs interceptors and frigates with their tiny sigs and being almost unnoticeable against a mwding target that already has 500%(?) sig bloom."
"i was looking at the target painter more as a specialized support (help getting missile dps through) and somewhat as a soft counter to small ships that should still be inferior to neuts or webs. i don't use missiles myself but having an entire weapon group being widely acknowledged as significantly worse than all others doesn't sit well with me.are you referring to machariel as in the faction battleship? i'd also be very reluctant to take statements as evidence (i know i state that tp's are weak in the op, but i really was not expecting to be challenged on that statement).if i had more time, i would do some testing with tps and maybe try them out in pvp once or twice, but i really don't."
"i was under the impression you had tested this out thoroughly....apparently not."
"in my opinion, ccp should be fixing existing content such as faction warfare and sov mechanics rather than working on new content. ccp seems to have a storied history of spending alot of time on new shiny content just to let it rot with no more development focus (i.e., faction war, cosmos, sov mechanics, etc). it would be one thing if the expansions were supported post release, but they don't seem to be.i propose that ccp shift their focus, for a few expansions at least, from generating new content to improving existing content. wouldn't it be great to have faction war occupancy actually have meaning? or sov mechanics that don't favor the blob?"
"posting in an epic thread to confirm that the op is a whiner. a terrible idea with zero contact with in-game reality. losing a pod in lowsec should stay as a clear indicator that someone sucks beyond all reason."
"good idea dude, and sounds very cool i wouldnt mind supporting it but agreeing with others its not what eve is about, although i do admit \"podding\" is a lil too common although i may be bordering rping here"
"carebear 1: \"hey did you hear? your pod autowarps when your ship blows up in low sec now!\"carebear 2: \"omg let's just into our cnrs and go pwn those piwate nubs!\"stop messing with game mechanics and focus on getting content. change the way low sec works isn't going to fix it. you have to make low sec more enticing from a content perspective."
"ok my internet's working again. someone called it already but yeah, after the first couple of responses it was clear that nobody really understood what i was getting at so i just started trolling you guys.i did get a good laugh at some of the replies. everyone complaining about the effects my proposal would have, especially complaints about the impact it would have on ransoming/podding carebears in low sec, lol. the carebears my proposal is targeted towards are the ones who currently will not venture into low sec at all, ever, thus obviously you are not ransoming or podding them now. you never have, and you never will, not unless the mechanics surrounding the rvr is changed, and outside of pods e-warping as i suggested since it's the simplest solution, there isn't much you can do. you'd need either a drastic reduction in the cost of implants, or an overhaul of the jump clone system might work.overall my proposal would have very minimal impact on the game, other than reducing the rvr of venturing into low sec, granting the hordes of highsec folks a viable low sec option. other than increasing the number of pilots willing to venture into low sec, there's practically no discernable difference between pods automatically e-warping and a pilot spamming warp to a celestial in low structure.obviously anyone who spends much time at all in low sec learns how to get their pods out, so there's no impact on that group. anyone who's brand new to low sec will get podded a few times, until they learn how to avoid it, my change saves them what, 3-4 pod losses at most? so ultimately you miss out on a handful of podmails of newbs in the transitional period between being new to low sec, and experienced enough to avoid pod losses. who cares? after those 3-4 losses their pods would be insta-warping with or without my proposed e-warp mechanic.then there's this whole other huge majority of the playerbase who currently do not enter low sec at all, so obviously they are not getting podded in low sec currently. they are the group who will not venture into low sec to learn how to avoid getting podded, because they will not risk their implants by even going to low sec to begin with. this is the group my proposal is aimed towards, the folks who will never enter low sec otherwise. even if only a small fraction of them take advantage of my proposal and actually start flying in low sec, that would still double or triple the number of pilots who currently will venture into low sec.also it's quite telling that nobody pointed out how my proposal would completely undermine the bounty system. of course the bounty system is completely broken already precisely because it's virtually impossible to lose your pod in low sec if you know what your doing, so my proposal wouldn't really have any impact on bounties.for all the posters who complained about easymode/etc, i just wanted to point out the obvious: the game is the way it is because of the mechanics in place. ie the status/population of low sec is a result of the harshness/difficulty of the mechanics of low sec. if you want to change an aspect of the game (in this case, the lack of players in low sec space), something has to give, and by give, i mean become easier. if you're unwilling to have some aspect of low sec mechanics become less difficult, then really you're unwilling to change the status/population of low sec."
"here's an alternative to my original proposal. as you can see, it would take alot more work to get implemented and it's not nearly as effective, but hopefully it will not offend the overly delicate sensibilities of you, the assembly hall masses.changes:1. cool down on jump clone timer reduced to 2 hours from 24 hours2. all characters begin with infomorph psych lvl 1 and a pre-installed jump clone, jc is located in a low sec station near the highsec starter hub, in the general area of each race's factional warfare centers.3. this low sec jump clone starts with a full set of \"newbie\" implants in slots 1-10. these implants have no bonuses/stats, they simply exist so that new players will get a popup warning if they try to install a real implant in their \"lowsec/pvp\" clone.4. changes in the tutorial to emphasize both low sec and jump clone functionality. this should happen as early in the tutorial as possible to ensure new players are alert and paying attention (basically after training newbies on basic navigation/etc so they're able to pilot their ship). the tutorial will require new players to \"jump\" to their jump clone in low sec, muck about a bit while learning about jc functionality, low sec, combat, flagging/aggression mechanics,etc maybe undock and warp to a mission area and do a bit of combat against a tutorial drone, whatever. basically the tutorial should really push the concept of maintaining a \"low sec/pvp\" jump clone with no implants vs a highsec pve clone with +learning implants, the concept should be standardized as the \"norm\" and all new players should understand the reasoning and importance of doing this.i understand that eve is a sandbox, and formalizing a pvp vs pve \"jump clone\" doctrine straight away in the tutorial may seem too rigid, but i feel that's its necessary because eve is a sandbox. or rather, because eve is a harsh, unforgiving sandbox with extreme/severe penalties for any mistakes. new players know this somewhat, well they know enough to seek advice from others before making any decisions which could detrimentally impact them (atleast newbs can no longer gimp their characters for life via poor attribute distribution choices). because of that, everything is judged on it's risk vs reward in the long run.a new player starts playing eve. not wanting to make a mistake, he asks what he should do. every response in the help channel, every response in npc corp chat, every guide he reads on the web tells him he should train his learning skills and cybernetics to 1 and get +stat implants asap. while this makes sense for optimizing skill gains in the long run, it's makes for terrible gameplay.but that's what he does. he starts running missions to make isk. by the time he can run level 2 missions he's got +3 per/+3 int implants. by the time he's starting level 3 missions he's buying his advanced learning skills. before he can even fly a battlecruiser much less afford one he's got 4/4 learnings and +3 implants (except cha). +/- 20-30 days in and a) mission running is becoming monotonous, yet b) already his pod is worth more than the ship he's flying, and accounts for a large portion of his accumulated wealth. that means he needs to stay away from low sec, he needs to avoid getting podded at all costs until he's in a position where he can afford the risk. except, by the time he's in a raven running level 4's he's upgraded to +4s or +5s implants, so he needs to grind more isk as a buffer. at some point after that, he finally unlocks the corp standings to install a jump clone, assuming he understands why he needs one, and assuming that a) he's a pvper at heart, and somehow still playing eve after doing nothing but mission running for the last 3 months, and b) assuming all that time carebearing in highsec hasn't killed off his desire to pvp."
"i appreciate what you're trying to do, but i honestly think your proposals are entirely in the wrong direction. based on your post, the real problem is the dumb advice given and taken by new pilots early in thier careers. i can tell you that this positively was not my new pilot experience. i was done with missions in about a month, i had no implants, and i was barely training any learning skills. in a couple months i had joined my first player corp - which was based in 0.0. i flew my newb ass out to 0.0 in the best ship i could fly: the celestis, a tech 1 cruiser. i loved the new pilot experience because i didn't care about the silly brainwashing advice that you've illustrated is a problem. i don't think it's wise to ask ccp to put in safeguards to protect pilots from thier own decisions in a sandbox game. the problem is the brainwashing advice given by other players, not the game mechanics. get in the help channel and give different advice! help new pilots learn to fly in low sec and 0.0. my corp does this from time to time, and i've taught pilots with less that two months of time in game how to thrive outside of empire. once a pilot knows the fun of escaping high-sec, they will never go back - with or without thier implants and clones."
"did you get podded in lowsec? you have to be completely clueless to achieve that feat. not supported."
"learning to play the game is better than trying to change it."
"with your newly suggested changes it really only dumbs down the experience a player gets by playing the game. eve is a cold and harsh game full of competitiveness and is mainly aimed at pvp in whatever your interested be it industry/combat/trading.when you put this in a big element of it is lost.also the 2 hour jumpclone timer makes me think your back on the trolling path... because its ridiculous beyond words.so still no support."
"jumping on the bandwagon.not supported."
"first off, you guys still aren't getting it. it does not matter if it \"dumbs down\" the game (or makes it \"easymode\") for this particular sub-set of the player base. these players do not participate at all currently. they aren't going to start just because you think they should have to tough it out. this group is defined by the fact that they aren't going to tough it out. the only way to get them there is to dumb it down or make it easier.anyone who has a chance to make it under the current mechanics is already flying around in low sec (not necessarily full time, but they can/do venture into low sec on their own). if you've ever been to low sec ever, then i'm not talking about you.second, how is 2 hours ridiculous? it covers what could be called a reasonable/average play session, but is long enough prevent using the jump clone system for instantaneous travel all over the universe on a whim.say you're some highsec dude, you decide you wanna go pvp. so you log in, jump clone to your low sec clone, run around and lose a bunch of rifters in low sec for 2 hours, jump clone back when you're done for the night and getting ready to log.having to jump clone means you're losing sp/hour for the duration you're in an implantless clone, so there's drawbacks to it already. losing the sp/hour for an entire day just so you can pvp for 30 minutes is one of the reasons why highsec only people justify their decision to not bother with messing with jcs to pvp, once they have access to jump clones.remember, the entire purpose of this is to encourage the inexperienced/hesitant/highsec pvp virgins to simply begin experimenting with flying in low sec. it's not like they're going to be moving in, setting up shop and start camping gates or anything. at first they'll probably do little roams, just checking things out getting a feel for it. they'll probably be spending less than 30mins at a time in low sec, maybe more if they find that they enjoy the thrill/pvp/etc. remember these are the people who would not come into low sec as things currently stand, the mechanics that enable them to do so need to be as painless as possible, ideally the timer would be less than 2 hours but any quicker would be too powerful which is why i said 2 hours. it doesn't matter if it's dumb advice or not, what matters is that it's the universal response given unconditionally by 99.99% of all eve players whenever asked. it would be easier convince ccp to rename all the ships in eve after my little pony dolls than getting even a fraction of the players out there to answer the question \"i'm new, what should i train first?\" with anything other than said \"dumb advice\""
"is anyone actually going to ignore him? by the way rajere, you have no support for this topic. drop it already. no one thinks its intelligent except you. so why don't you just drop out now with some dignity rather than digging a hole that makes you look a troll. several people have countered your arguments successfully and your just ignoring them. your jump clone idea is horrible. we already have alliances running around everyday to defend their territory and attacking new territory with jump cloning. we do not need to enhance this even more with your suggestion. (which btw, would be enhanced by 10x effectiveness) your low-sec idea? doesn't work for it. if high-secers want to pvp, they can do so now with little to no risk. i see no reason to change this mechanic. your not going to bring more people down. \"it doesn't matter if it's dumb advice or not, what matters is that it's the universal response given unconditionally by 99.99% of all eve players whenever asked. it would be easier convince ccp to rename all the ships in eve after my little pony dolls than getting even a fraction of the players out there to answer the question \"i'm new, what should i train first?\" with anything other than said \"dumb advice\"who is asking for this? seriously, who? i have yet to talk to anyone that is asking for this mechanic. everytime i talk with new people, their worry is losing their ship. so do you plan on making ships invincible for new people? and btw, where is 99.99% of the eve universe asking for this? they obviously aren't making their support known here so why don't you just drop it already as your only good argument is useless and already brokenseriously, stop now."
"quoted for failure so you can't edit away your incompetence.1. learn to read, so you don't terribly misquote the person you're trying to argue with, making yourself look like an idiot.2. oh noes, i'm in danger of looking like a troll? do me a favor and look up \"rajere\" in game, read my title, then read my bio. tia3. your argument against clone jumping is laughable. think you may have missed this patch, it kinda invalidated the entire premise of your argument. confused? check out the first item listed. oh and don't forget this patch as well4. if you're going to argue with someone, make sure you actually have a clue, that usually comes with experience. i tried to look you up but of course you're a non-entity on bc (sure sure, you're an alt ofc), so i looked up your entire corp instead. surprise surprise, the whole lot of you are irrelevant. basically if i wanted advice(i don't), i'd ask someone in one of the 70,037 eve corps that are less terrible than yours. ps: since you're probably too inept to pick up on it, that's not an invitation to argue the merits of using bc for general comparisons. i know you don't post to bc, yeah yeah, your corp isn't sync'd. guess what? mine isn't either. i don't know a single person that does post to bc, or non-gw kb using corp that is sync'd. all that means is you're still terrible."
"74 replies1074 viewszero support ... so bad an idea ... the op didn't even support his own thread./proposal"
"denial... such bliss."
"bumpagegive the nighthawk a chance ccp!"
"no hams is fine - the bonus is to hm explosion velocity after all. so here is a fit for hms:[nighthawk, buffer-hm]damage control iiballistic control system iiballistic control system ii[empty low slot][empty low slot]y-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivelarge shield extender iiinvulnerability field iiinvulnerability field iiphoton scattering field iiheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileskirmish warfare link - interdiction maneuverscore defence field extender icore defence field extender ioh dear! it appears to be short of pg by 159.25 mw, 18%. that requires two fitting mods to make up! hang on though, why don't we active tank it?[nighthawk, active-hm gm]damage control iiballistic control system ii[empty low slot][empty low slot][empty low slot]y-t8 overcharged hydrocarbon i microwarpdrivemedium electrochemical capacitor booster i, cap booster 800large shield booster iiphoton scattering field iiinvulnerability field iiheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileheavy missile launcher ii, caldari navy scourge heavy missileskirmish warfare link - interdiction manoeuversanti-em screen reinforcer ianti-explosive screen reinforcer ioh dear! now we're short by 348.5 mw! we're over the pg of 887.5 mw by 39% and now need three fitting mods!if want a laugh, try fitting an xlsb, like the sleipnir. you'll need a full rack of fitting mods. yes, five of them."
"here's a novel idea, fit the two ****ing mods"
"i've a better idea. why don't we cut two lowslots off the nh and give it the ~200 pg extra it needs? then you'd think it was balanced, despite having 2 fewer slots than any other field cs? you catch what i'm getting at?"
"odd, if i had to pick one that looked wrong, it'd be the caldari - that's not an outpost, that's a walkway around nothing. it looks like it can hold a boy's football team, not a capital fleet. the minni one is ugly, but it's a functional kind of ugly, entirely appropriate to a deep-space refinery. that said, even if i did agree, this is such a hilariously low-priority issue that i wouldn't support it anyways."
"not supporting an another \"this is ugly\" post..for you to state one thing is to allow others to point out flaws in something else.hell imho the minmatar outpost actually looks pretty damn good... at least it makes sense structurally.... certainly better than the phalic gallente tower... the hole that is caldari...amarr isn't too bad...beauty is in the eye of the beholderop should take that as a piece of advise...and move along."
"i must say that the minmatar one does not display any kind of refinery look, it more looks like a deep space gas station but this is unfortunately not its role and is why i think the design vs function it does not make sense.and yes the priority is low but it wouldn't hurt for the art team to take a second glance over the minmatar outpost.in your eyes the minmatar outpost might look good but i feel as with the other that it does not display it function properly. it is at first actually a refinery. this has nothing to do with service (which would make you think about refueling, refitting, repairing etc.) but it is more a deep space refinery with which it's current looks and name does not display that.for example yes the caldari station might not look all that well but atleast it looks like a research facility and so does the gallente outpost look like a tower in which a collection of office could be stored. in the ways of function vs design these actually make sense.funnily enough that i stated in this post that beauty is in the eye of the beholder but that obviously has not been read by some people..."
"i am going to have agree with drake and hersch on this one (i know, big surprise there right?)the argument \"it doesn't look right to me\" is, unfortunately, so one sided, there's really nothing to debate. granted, it's a perfectly legitimate opinion, but let's face it, if the devs spent all their time fixing stuff people said was ugly, they'd never get anything done, because as has already been proven in this (short) thread, not everyone agrees on how something should look.no support."
"this might have come across wrong because actually what i wanted to point out is that its design does not correspond with its function (yes i called it ugly because i personally don't like the design).this is because when you compare the 4 outpost next to each other all of them look according to their statistics and role.caldari has a techy look on the station with scientific looking equipment positioned on the outside displaying that this is a deep space lab.gallente have a huge tower which looks much like a metropolitan skysc****r and really displays corporate/office design.amarr has the look of somewhat of a shipyard and when you look at the animation you see containers being moved inside the docking strip.minmatar's station is called a service outpost and this is what bothers me. service would basicly mean repair, refuel, logistics etc but the yist is all outpost can repair and refuelling isn't something you can only do in this one outpost.what this leaves is a mining platform as it is the only one with a refinery without upgrading, a few office slots and 2 ship build slots. this gives the impression that it is more a mining/small-time construction station than anything else and the looks don't display it.this is why i proposed to revamp the station as name it properly and design it so that it fits with its role."
"it dosent look right to me either."
"i like the idea and even remember seeing mods like this in the db a while back. 50km is too far, but aside from that, i'm all for it."
"i agree"
"ugh, no.the contest between cloakers attempting to get safely through a bubbled gate and gatecampers to decloak and kill them is a fun challenge, one of the few areas of eve pvp where the intelligence and ability of individual players really matters. reducing this to 'press butan, decloak falcon', even in a 1bn ship, is a step backwards.a module or ability which gave much more limited information (for example, a new scanner module which told you the distance to all cloaked ships on grid, without giving you the pilot name or or ship type) would be a reasonable option and would retain, in fact add to, the cat-and-mouse aspect of cloaking operations.hurrrr"
"supported"
"yes please, it's not like corporate hangar arrays have such huge amounts of space."
"support"
"the way you'd want to implement this is to have in-station jumps actually work properly and not just kill a clone, and then allow in-station to not use a timer. that said, i'm not convinced that this is a good idea. it seems like you're removing a lot of the tradeoffs from the system, which often leads to things being too powerful. i'm not entirely opposed, but i'm not crazy about this."
"i agree.however i would like to see a high-rank skill which decreases the jc cooldown. 1 hour per level perhaps?"
"/me thumbs down"
"in station jumping is fixed since quite a while."
"no support for more jump clone \"enhancements\".. the things are a blight on the galaxy."
"i just took the time to read this entire thread and wow. talk about a \"me, me, me, i, i, i\" fest. this is purely a topic on greed and nothing more. there is no moral high ground in the way this \"discussion\" has played out, but, as we know, morality is not an integral part of the eve experience, greed is. now let's get started. all the \"real world\" analogies we've seen so far are logical fallacies. in order to compare the salvage of wrecks in missions to the real world you have to look at history to a legal form of pirate, the privateer. in this \"real world\" analogy the privateer is commissioned to attack enemy vessels. for this sanctioned pirating he was granted the ship and everything contained within unless otherwise specified. this is the most similar real life analogy possible. there is a very real difference in the way ownership is applied in matters of war. even with this analogy there is one very important fact. eve is not real life. if it were and eve were to be historically accurate then the \"to the victor go the spoils\" method would apply in every sanctioned act of hostility. it doesn't. a pc ship's wreck is still theirs and not the property of the pc that destroyed them. the pc that caused the destruction will still no doubt loot, and possibly salvage, the vessel because the aggression is there anyways.now, ninja salvaging a mission runner who intends to salvage is stealing. plain and simple. you know you're intentionally \"griefing\" own up to it. sanctioned theft is still theft. legal is not the same as right, ethical, nor moral (see civil disobedience - thoreau, ethics - spinoza, treatise on tolerance - voltaire, and multiple writings from martin luther king and the mahatma, mohandas ghandi). mission runners aren't exactly free and clear either. you're greedy b*****ds and they know it. wrecks were not really intended for just you. in game, they were brought about for salvagers. if you're a salvager and a mission runner, great. you're doing what they hoped mission runners might to help with the spread of rigging, but there's a reason that you can be scanned out, too. it's for salvaging. ccp didn't give exclusive salvage rights to mission runners because if they did the fruits of the salvager's labor would be priced a lot closer to that of unobtainium.so the question posed is one of how do we deal with the mission runner vs salvager dilemma? to begin with, your only two possible options view is not how things work. the idea of debate is to be presented with 2 or more sides and to come to a conclusion that both can agree to.so let's brainstorm. the treating deadspace as null or low-sec space is interesting, but it would kill mission running as pc pirates would scan it out, warp in, and gank the mission runner knowing there would be no consequences. applying the theft tag allowing the runner to shoot the salvager opens up another mission running problem. if a salvager is instanta red on salvage then their entire view on the profession will change. instead of just salvaging they would now actively loot as the consequences are the same. in doing so they would no doubt steal mission objectives as often as not. this would break mission running as a profession as well. both of those options would hurt mission runners. more than that, though, it would hurt new players so bad that any considering the militaristic side of eve would quit within the 14 day trial. the balance would be so horrendous it's not even funny. so the flip to red and deadspace=null/low-sec would just turn out badly for new players and mission runners to a point that ccp would lose a lot of revenue from the accounts canceled/never really started. (to be continued)"
"so how do you fix it to where 4 day old alts and other young pc salvagers can't just jump in and also hurt the mechanics? i honestly don't know. i do, ofcourse, have a couple ideas that need some work, but have a modicum of merit.the first would be similar to that of the deadspace=null/low sec idea. the difference being many: the missions effected only being concord approved(against pirate corps) and not faction warfare; only the mission runner can initiate hostilities in the mission without a potential concord backlash in mission; concord has to be called by the runner if attacked by the salvager, rat, other pvp pc; and that in the situation that a runner does attack a salvager it is treated as if in null sec space with a loss of status, aggro from concord outside of the mission zone until aggression timer ends, and additionally a loss of status with the mission granting agent. in this scenario i'm sure neither side is would be happy about it, which means it has a chance of working.the second idea would be based on standing. in this method a salvager would only be able to enter missions that they, or their fleet would be able to obtain from the agents themselves. this way a salvager could only enter a level 4 mission if they themselves could run level 4 missions from this faction. the salvager could still salvage the same way they do now, with no risk of attack from the mission runner, but they'd have to have a high enough status to do so. it makes things a bit more fair. like the last suggestion i'm sure mission runners and ninja salvagers won't like it, again meaning the same as the last.of course the best option of all would be for runners to be a little less greedy and salvagers to be a little more ethical, but what're the chances of that happening? ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________just for the record, i equate ninja salvagers and can flippers with care bears. personally, i play the game as just that, a game. in the corp i'm in we love baiting can flippers because we view can-flipping as belt raiding for the timid, so they deserve to get shot at by something that might stand a chance(i lose more often than not, price i pay for having a young character [we lost 2 ships last, saturday, night doing just that]). we also are crazy enough to mine in low sec, being so many of us are young players we get flushed out and/or destroyed often enough, but it's a game."
"i don't mean to rush the csm, but without a report on the meeting yesterday, you might get people asking for input on the same issue twice, or not keeping in mind what has already been said about them. in order to keep things clear it might be a good idea to open meeting threads after the last one has a report, and referring to that report in the new thread itself.just a friendly suggestion to keep things clear for all of you. =)"
"bringing these up for next meeting since i plan on showing up x]"
"people are asking about same issues two, three, four times even if issue was forwarded to ccp :d i am sure everyone can wait 24-48 hours as its usualy need for secretaries to post meeting logs and minutes."
"as i said, merely a suggestion. =) keep up the good work guys."
"risk v. reward for highsec is way off. as lucrative as highsec is, it's no wonder such a small percentage of the playerbase joins the \"endgame\" of 0.0. suicide ganking provides a small amount of risk to space life highsec. i love it. go hog wild"
"the point the op is trying to make is not against being suicide ganked when hauling a larger value of goods, but against the fact that it is possible to gank at random, without even scanning the target ship and still keep ahead isk wise. as the ship loss is covered by insurance the ganker need a few millions for bs sized guns, even less if he want to gank small ships, and he will get that back even if the ganked ship drop some million unit of tritanium. so long as the pirate scan for a juicy target and prepare a well organized ambush, more power to him, the limit is when his activity is subsidized and made economically feasible by insurance. note that i am fully aware that if the insurance payout for concord kill is removed ccp will almost certainly give concord a longer reaction time, making suicide ganking of juicy targets more easy."
"any minutes yet, i'm keen to see what was discussed."
"new dev blog released today addresses some of the t3 bottlenecks.also, just curious as to how long it normally takes for meeting minutes to be released?"
"i'm 50% done.i have to clean the logs, prepare a readable version (reword), prepare for wikification, save in selected formats, upload, spell check and then i'll post. so most likely tomorrow, maybe today. either way it should take less than 3 days."
"thanks meissa! i'll check back in a few days."
"a huge portion of the eve online have watched and enjoyed clear skies. so naturally this opens an area of opportunity for expanding the eve chronicles to a video format. would the csm and isd be willing to support these productions for the enjoyment of other players and inevitable viral marketing purposes?the success of clear skies shows what a dedicated group can do to improve the eve community, the addition of support of the csm, isd and even ccp could allow the production of even better films and possibly (assuming support from groups like valve who created the source engine used in clear skies) allow the transition to broadcast television (sci-fi channel for example).ulterior motive: honestly i want to see more clear skies (can you blame me?)"
"still waiting for the csm. come on guys!"
"supported.assault ships seem a little over-looked as it is, and more as a skill you have to get to 4 to be able to fly heavy assault ships.give 'em some luv!"
"agreed. while you're at it, alliance wallets would be nice, too. i can't think of a legitimate reason not to add this functionality."
"yes, how many should a character have though?"
"that really depends...it could range anywhere from 2 to 6. it would also be nice to be able to name them, but let's get the actual functionality in first. thanks for the bump by the way...i was sad when the thread fell off the first page."
"agreeeeed!!"
"this is just one of the many things about poses that need to be adressed, the sooner the better!"
"what you call limited importance is the back bone of every major alliance, all t2 gear of any kind. we are asking for ccp to update what has been the same since pos's came out. everything in this game has changes at some point or another but pos's. its time they get love too. just because we want modular pos's doesn't mean we want it to stop there. that's just one of the major things that should have happened a long time ago. i have said it before, and ill say it 10,000 more times, if not this idea then something, its time for pos's to get an overhaul, for better or worse, ccp need to show pos's love.and to that end, the csm needs to represent this idea to ccp, the way it should have been represented, as an idea for modular pos's, not the funky pos thing, that they kind of talked about but didn't really have any official talk about.and the csm shouldn't come back and call us, the people that are apparently lacking imagination, babies for wanting it to be represented the way it should have been the first time. and if it is done right, and the csm bring it up, in official talks, and ccp say no, then they need to give a reason. a real reason, not just \"its to hard\", as quoted by the csm. i have pushed this idea for the last 3 years because its the only idea that has been well laid out, and other changes do need to come with it, but you have to start somewhere."
"/signed... for the third time"
"that would be so full of win :)"
"yeah, just take it away from chribba, and put it in highsec as a monument, with some news article praising chribba for his contribution to the empires industrial might or something :-)"
"i don't care either way.as long as evemail is fixed before it's implemented."
"as do i."
"listen, pal ...i do want walking in stations. i really do. don't ever speak for me, again. the next time you do, i'll have your pod. also, gtfo out of my game. i can haz ur stuffz, righty right?"
"i support this."
"i support this, but you need to say hello to my friend the <enter> key."
"i agree with the idea presented, for that reason and also another, what i believe to be more essential, reason. corporations, alliances, and players alike should be able to set their standings to however many other entities they would like to simply because it should be possible. the most opinionated alliances out there should be able to set their standings towards every single player/corp/alliance in eve, be they npc, player, or whatever else. if eve is to truly be the \"science fiction simulator\" that it's creators apparently would like it to be, then more effort needs to be spent on making systems that work realistically within the environment of the game. limitations for no good reason other than bad design/coding/acts of god should simply not exist. this is an ideal world, of course.if it simply isn't possible for this to happen due to any reason, then the standings system is broken entirely (due to it's inability to do what it is supposed to do) and needs to be torn open, examined, and re-created."
"i didn't even know there was a limit. i hate limitations in general./endorsed + fully supported."
"supported, this will help stop the \"fof?\" questions in intel and cause less confusion if a neut friend drops from fleet. an alternative is a way to import and export standings lists for distribution."
"i think we'll keep pushing for it thanx."
"well, since there's still no answer from either ccp or csm on this topic, i'd like to simplify things by preparing a series of possible answers for them to choose from:[ ] while we are still working to implement the change to allow alliance participation in fw, our original timeline was overly optimistic. we now hope to have the fix integrated by roughly ____________(insert date here).[ ] who gives a crap about the so-called 'rp' alliances?! if they want to get involved in what little storyline-based mechanics we've deigned to incorporate into eve, they can just go ahead and disolve the organizations they've spent years building and join one of our solidly organized militia npc corps instead.[ ] wait, you guys actually want to be in fw? hell, we were going to scrap it during the next patch anway, because it sucks and we can't be arsed to fix it. our staff is far too busy with the upcoming major expansion \"[bold]invasion of ... muppets iiiiin spaaaaace!!!1!eleventy1[/bold]\" we're very excited about the way we've adapted sleeper mechanics to make miss piggy a real challenge...[ ] uh ... who in what now? not a clue what you're talking about. who's this 'zulupark' guy who gave you that 'early 2009' estimate, and what was he smoking? heck, what's this 'fw' stuff you're talking about?"
"i am definitely not supporting the idea of \"alliances\" in \"faction\" warfare, on grounds that the only difference between \"alliances\" and \"factions\" is that factions are run by npcs. an alliance, for all intents and purposes, is a faction.look at it this way, factions are just \"groups\" of npc corporations. alliances are just \"groups\" of player corporations. the fact that there was a difference in the naming of both just reeks of sloppy design to me, perhaps two different design teams, one focused on npcs who went with the name \"factions\" and another focused on player interactions who went with the name \"alliances.\"letting an alliance become part of a faction would be like letting the amarr become part of the caldari. it just plain doesn't make much sense.if you want to be a part of one of the npc factions, leave your current alliance (*cough* faction *cough*) and join theirs! pretty simple, right?"
"i absolutely support this idea."
"this is just one of those ridiculously silly mechanics flaws that should be addressed asap. i fully supporting this moving to the top or near the top of ccps agenda list."
"yes they shoulnt kic you out that far nor be to big, ballance them so you undock at around -1000 i say, easy enough to bump off but youre not gonna die if you stop as soon as youre screen goes black (cntrl space spammage)as for npc stations, if anything we should be reducing undocks on most stations, everything should be like emp family in amarr (except in jita but the undock is still rediculous there, dont even get me started on motsu, its like 30 km ffs), shouldnt you be carefull if theres pirates in system? shouldnt it be dangerous to live in lowsec? why undock with wartargets in system if youre not ready to fight? anything to make eve even safer for idiots is not a plus in my book.within these parameters i endorse your idea, although all stations and not just outposts need to be looked at"
"not signed.as far as i'm concerned, it should be the opposite of what you're proposing. all stations should kick you off out of dock rangei will settle for making stations have a 3km range from undocking, though i believe this is the wrong direction"
"now, i'm definately not on the ccp dev team, but i imagine that the industry expension was put on the back burner because so many of eve's players are combat junkies. combat is also what i'd imagine marketers forsee as more likely to bring in new players. therefore it makes more sense for ccp to focus more on combat.however, and yes, that's a big however, the current player base is likely focused on combat because it's such a relatively easy way to make money simply by blowing up npc's and getting near instant gratification from it. this is understandably more appealing to your average joe than pointing mining lasers at something or trading on the open market using buy orders that take weeks, if not months, to go through.the solution to re-balancing the trio of combat/industry/business seems to me to lie in re-thinking the roles that npc's have in the way combat players earn their isk, as well as providing combat players just as many reliable ways to make their earnings from the wallets of other players. perhaps re-thinking bounty contracts and perhaps mercenary contracts? any more than that and it's a topic for another thread.all in all, the industrial and business aspects of eve seem vastly overshadowed by it's combat aspect. i am in favor of doing whatever it takes to give industrialists/entrepreneurs just as much incentive to play eve as the combat junkies.i think that the solution lies not only in an overhaul of the industry side of things, but in the way general business is conducted in eve between players.npc's can remain a viable source of income for those strange anti-social people who like grinding in multiplayer games. (yes, i know that people often run missions/rat together, so it's not always anti-social, but the point needed to be made, and strongly at that.)please put some thought into the needs of industrialists and entrepreneurs, and then the role of combat in eve becomes much more clear."
"before introducing more changes and new unneeded features.....the single biggest improvement to industry in eve would be an upgrade to the evemail interface.labels, functional addressbook, filters, working ordering, a workflow that works.without a working evemail ui industrialists are operating in bubbles of their own isolation.to build a strong business with strong relationships is near impossible in eve as it would mean spending hours sifting through an evemail interface that simply does not work. instead industrialists turn away from this headache.evemail = the biggest industrial feature.evemail = completely useless as it stands."
"whatever it takes to make corps work more like real corps, do it! i support higher payed shareholders!"
"i support this."
"it could be slightly more complicated then it sounds since there might be other values referencing it aswell, and all of those references would have to be changed as well.then again, my programming knowledge is very limited, so there might be a easy work around that i'm not aware of. if that's the case, then i can't see any reason not to fix this."
"i agree wholeheartedly. standings could be a much more useful tool in many more ways than only this if they were designed and developed properly."
"this seems like a simple and effective change to make life in 0.0 alliances a bit easier. as fun as pos bowling with titans can be, i see no reason that all of the headaches associated with passworded pos and jump bridges being mandatory should remain."
"in the last expansions ccp has gone through great lenghts and put great efforts into making this game look stunning and beutifull. be it the overhauled models, or the new effects.but for what ?because if you crank up graphics it doesnt look beutifull, it looks disturbed. in before apocrypha, it was at least possible for some people to enable hdr+aa for the game through the program nhancer. allready then many people rightfully complained that this functionality should be implemented into the game options.now since apocrypha, even the enhancement through nhancer doesnt work anymore, and it is not possible to get a decent result from trying to enable hdr+aa in the game.ccp as a company works close with the two major partys in graphics technology ati and nvidia, and it would not take alot of effort from them to call up a few people and finally get an antialias option implemented in the game options (respectivly one that will work well together with their hdr option).it is technically possible for ccp to implement this. other game manufacturer have shown that indeed hdr and antialias can work well together and without any artifacts.i herewith request from the csm to put this topic on discussion with ccp and get a definitive response.if you want the beauty to look beautifull, then please support this proposal.-heroldyn[update]i am now offering 1m isk to the first 100 supporters of this proposal. the isk will be sent to the character you supported the topic with within 24 hours from your support-reply (usually inbetween the timeframe from 19h to 22h gmt+1). i am guaranteing the isk until either:a) 100 supporters are reachedb) the issue has been added to the csm's discussion listin either case i will post a notification that there is no further isk being sent out.[/update]"
"i support my proposal."
"anti aliasing would be great, yes. not highest priority among the visual things, but still."
"well now. i don't disagree with you, but i feel it's worth mentioning that you can enable aa via your graphics settings (unless you're running mac, but if that's the case: get away from me!).that being said, i don't do it myself, because some games don't react to well to having forced aa (yes, i also play other games), and i really can't be bothered changing it all the time. not a major priority, but shouldn't be too hard to implement./supported"
"hi, yes you can force aa through the graphics driver or nhancer, but not aa+hdr.this means, you can either have hdr or aa in eve currently. post apocrypha, you could achieve hdr+aa through a specific setting in nhancer. this doesnt work since apo anymore.the proposal is about having an ingame option for aa inside eve that allows for having aa together with hdr."
"i support this idea. i've been trying for months to get both working at the same time on my ati videocards. i've been forcing these changes though the ati catalyst control center and it looked great. but unfortunately this resulted in a lot of unexpected shutdowns when playing eve and almost the loss of a few ships. after restoring the settings in ccc everything seemed to work properly again.because of the nature of eve things tend to happen at range in _space_ and aa+hdr would definately make things more awesome."
"supported, i'd like to see my computing power not be wasted. let our high end graphics cards do what they were made to do!"
"i 110% support this thread. give us aa + hdr...! so i can actually enjoy watching eve on my 40\" hd-tv"
"in every other game i've played in... you could never do both hdr and aa.... i think op is hallucinating.regardless... i would like to have aa... but i'm pretty damn sure op is looking for a pot o gold that he will never find."
"not supported, it's working fine on ati, just enable aa in the control panel and hdr in eve.maybe start to poke nvidia about their driver support instead."
"@drake:maybe your graphics card doesnt support hdr, or you are only playing old games ?there are many games that work with aa+hdr on nvidia cards.@mashie:not a driver issue. eve doesnt even have a checkbox to enable aa. as said before, many games work wel"
"the following characters have been paid their isk for participation asof tuesday 9.jun 09 18:08 (gmt+1):jin labarrefille balleherr esiqxenophanes colophonnaj kiredrake draconis"
"just about all cards less than 2 years old and more than <U+FFFD>50 support this. there is no reason not to allow both aa and hdr at the same time. just give a couple of checkboxes to enable/disable them...."
"i would even have supported this without the 1m isk. you know what, keep it, give it to the 101th supporter. it simply has really bothered me not to see any anti-alias. i want my screenshots to look like actual spaceships flying through space, not raggedly cut images pasted to a shiny background!/signed by ferdio ricotezedit: oops, didn't see that checkbox. /checked"
"just a quick reminder,if you support this proposal, please make sure to check the checkbox that reads \"check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\". this ensures that your voice is being easily recognized."
"doesn't support? your not that bright are you...the only cards that could theoretically support this would be very new...as for games... lets see.. um.. geeoblivion would be a damn good example of that.do your homework<--- 2x geforce 8800 ddr3 640 mb vram sli'dmy card's can do either or but on most games not both."
"as said this thread is not for discussion. i know that this is supported by mostmodern cards and many modern games aswell. if you have a different knowledge, thats fine but please discuss it elsewhere."
"you see it isn't a ccp issue or this screenshot would have been impossible for me to just capture.sorry for being technical but the reason the nhancer hack worked was quite simple, it tricked the nvidia driver to think you played oblivion and not eve.you are correct, there isn't a tickbox in eve to select aa, however you can still force aa in the driver control panel which is how you do it on ati cards. now due to nvidia totally dropping the ball regarding driver support it still won't work for you as you obviously have noticed. that however isn't ccp's fault, ok maybe a little, as they don't appear to use the fairly good developer relations they have with nvidia to get it sorted.i have not used nvidia since i sold my 8800gtx cards but have they fixed the bug so you can use aa (without hdr) in windowed mode yet? back then it only worked in fullscreen."
"i'm not enough of a techie to say definitely that this is a good idea, but it sounds nice. one of these days i may even have a computer that can run two clients at more than minimum, and then i'll have to see just how pretty it gets."
"/<U+FFFD>ctually using my graphics card would be nice. supported"
"i have the same problem. also, currently forcing aa through nhancer creates large number of artifacts. to be honest, i was really surprised when i found out that there is no antialising in options in eve, and i think that aa is a must for any respectable and graficaly advanced game currently, which eve is. withought aa we just loose alot of detail, and alot of work they've spent tweaking and creating new effect is waisted because it cannot even be seen in full grateness due to lack of aa."
"do want anti-aliasing."
"sounds like a good idea - good luck! i'm all for it!"
"the following characters have been paid their isk for participation asof tuesday 9.jun 09 23:08 (gmt+1):zak brynherschel yamamotoleila duranmaxsim goratievjigoku shiyaslave 2739fkzjared knightthe isk for ferdio ricotez has been hold back for the 101th supporter or the last supporter in before the proposal is picked up by the csm, as requested by ferdio."
"that's my point as well. all though you might be able run aa (not sure about hdr) on games without the menu checkbox, it doesn't mean that it works very well.basically, what i want, is native support for aa (hdr appears to be supported already, and as i'm running eve's max settings, i probably have it enabled), as games have a tendancy to crash when using forced aa (don't need hdr on top of it for it to crash).if anybody knows a fix for this (not just for eve, i have forced aa turned off because i play other games as well. haven't tried it with eve, but i'm also not too enthusiastic about changing it everytime i want to play something else), then by all means. if not, i think we deserved native aa./rantyes, you managed to get it running, but is it stable? how long have you had it running? that's my point, if it's not native, you need to mess around to get it working stable, and then some other games/apps might not be working anymore.it's not really a fix. it's a workaround."
"i fully support this product and/or service."
"supported"
"i suppose the main intention of this was to reduce lag in those overcrowded mission hubs. as most people who actually run caldari mission wouldn't bother starting to build standings for other factions in order to run lvl4's, i guess it was the right approach. though you are 100% right that we need more amarr/gallente/minamatar as well, so definately supported."
"the whole mission system (and all of the npc's in general, really) need to be reworked nearly from the ground up. ccp likes to think of eve as a science fiction *simulator* or so i hear. well then, we should forget about running missions merely for isk and loot (by and large, although i'm sure that the more mercenary among us might be attracted to those things) and focus more upon immersion into the science fiction simulator that is eve. agent missions should be completely dynamic, and rewards should be handed out not based on risk vs. reward but rather by how much the corporation needs this particular mission done. supply and demand, really. npc corps should need to function just like any player corporation. stations need to be fueled, enemies destroyed, and goods produced. if all anybody is doing is destroying enemies, how long before the enemy presence in that system dwindles? how many pirates do you think there actually are in jita? this would cause the rewards for those non-combat missions to skyrocket since so little of that gets done for the npc corps and yet they still somehow seem to manage to keep all those multitudes of stations running and productive.get the npc's working a little bit more like simulated people and a little bit less like isk dispensers and the problem solves itself."
"this issue relates to an ongoing duscussion in the market discussion part of the forum:"
"supporting this thread."
"i support this"
"hope they are able to do something though i am not sure how."
"all for them looking into it closely"
"totally for this!how about remove all bots, not just market bots :d"
"drives me to tears. the mechanics of the market will need to be altered. bots won't go away but penalties need to be hammered on those who use them.detection being the key."
"i cannot claim to know the solution to this problem, but i agree that it is worth the csm's attention as well as ccp's."
"this topic deserves not only the csm attention but the attention of internal affairs, the gms, and the devs. if one player can root this out... then everyone @ ccp should be fired!"
"i fully support an investigation and public report on this issue."
"an autistic girl at the school i work at always calls me a robot (wobot actually). however, i am not.i look forward to a new age in eve, please address this issue."
"ayup, supportin' dis."
"this crapp has to be fixed asap, it's prioritary!"
"captcha?"
"yes"
"i like it"
"i mostly agree with your argument, but not that they should dockon the other hand i think ccp should employ smaller, simpler but effectively significant changes firsti think ccp already knows there screwd up right now, but doesnt know what to do about it yetsupported"
"while i agree with you whole heartedly on the issue and the fixes, namely because i've already proposed them, i cannot support it.in recent discussions with people in the know, ccp has pretty much ruled out dockable ships. i don't understand their reasoning for it, i don't agree with them, and i certainly feel like it would be advantageous to move mass transport via super caps to this platform. i think truthfully they are taking the easy way out on this issue to avoid people's inherent stupidity. sadly, player actions within larger ship platforms could be a gateway to some even more awesome things in the future, it's just not gonna happen. the devs are apparently not going to allow it.motherships will never have a sufficient role in game unless carriers as a whole get overhauled. carriers certainly didn't match up to their hype before launch, and have since been a total letdown on performance for all too many reasons. people imagined carriers being something like the real thing. instead, we got an oversized dominix with jump drive rather than gate usage."
"please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"quite an interesting calculation and i do like the idea of the quite fitting role as a super-carrier for other ships."
"listen to this nonsense. while this might seem like a reasonable demand for someone who has never been a part of a 0.0 alliance or has ever spent more than a few seconds thinking about the idea, more than a moments thought reveals how utterly flawed this concept it. this is a videogame, an interactive form of entertainment. you seriously suggest it should at all time be someone's job (or many people's jobs if since you are suggesting one per system) to do absolutely nothing other than stare at empty space waiting for someone to jump through a gate?"
"i agree with efrim. i still live in 0.0, though i opted out of the alliance game a long time ago. during my time with alliances, i spent many hours and nights scouting for group ops, fleet moves, good old-fashioned freighter runs (before freighters had jump drives we had to run them through busy 0.0 pipes and bottleneck systems just like any other ship - required a a lot of scouting to keep the freighters safe). i still scout today, for a small independant 0.0 corp. we have two other pilots in the corp who i consider scouts \"by nature\". it's what we do. if we were in the military we'd probably be scome kind of scout or sniper - the waiting is worthwhile if the goal is clear and the stakes are high enough. our other pilots get more focus on making things explode because we keep eyes ahead, behind, and around our fleet to ensure we are aware of incomming threats. an organization that wants to thrive in deep space should attract high-quality pilots of various types: fcs, \"grunts\" (blob members), scouts, industrialits, spec-ops (small gang and covert), even public relations. the current system has made it way to \"generalized\". see local > form blob > use jump-gates > blob attack > stand down. oh, and i can tell you that if your scout is doing nothing other than staring at the screen they are doing it wrong."
"if you own the space you should have the intel on local in ther. not supported, the suggestion makes perfect sence, but it does not work-out gameplay-wise"
"all local needs to be delayed. period. this just plain makes sense for immersion purposes."
"this."
"at first glance, this looks like a solid fix."
"a firm \"maybe\", but i think it's worth bringing up to ccp."
"would just make having more people an even larger advantage."
"i <U+044F> ivan zhuk and i approve this message"
"a definate yes"
"definitely. no station chief in his right mind would allow a ship that had begun a fight at his station to then dock within it. make the ship run to avoid getting blown up."
"a common tactic is to bait with overwhelming force in reserve. the side baited have a chance to kill the bait and de-aggro/dockup at present. the change suggested would weight things heavily in the favor of the blob and in practice discourage combat.another example would be you kill a ship solo in a bs on the station and as the fight is ending an intie warps in. it points you and you can't track it so you sit for 10 minutues while his gang comes to kill you.increase the time taken to de-aggro fine but this proposal would be worse than the current situation.not supported."
"it's really broken with capitals, there is just no way to kill a carrier/dread in 60 seconds.i would support this or changing the timer based on ship size. but i am not sure if this would increase blobbing or not. people are able to kill something and de-aggress because of the aggression rule, but on the other hand people need to bring a blob to kill a bs in under 60s because of the same rule.definitely supporting ccp re-looking at this mechanic. nothing is more boring and unfun than lowsec docking games."
"read the original, i simply feel that lack of intel from within station is a much more pressing concern that has a lot to do with this topic since it revolves around docking-games.allow people to look outside and you can then have stations refuse everyone access if they're being aggressed, which to my mind is a better solution. looking is free, you undock you opt in for pvp and the potential destruction of your ship."
"the current 60 second timer for battleships and smaller is fine. make a change for capital ships docking underfire if you want, but don't ruin the rest of the game just to nerf low-sec capital ship station games.or you bring a small enough force that the battleship will fight you instead of just docking. seriously, its child's play to kill battleships on stations. the only imbalance here is with remote reps not giving an aggro timer, but the proposal to change that just got approved by the csm."
"so you undock from the station, get baited in by a bait ship then get ganked by a gang? that's just you losing horribly. in that situation, it'd be relatively easy to keep spamming your d-scan, seeing the incoming interceptor and gtfo. hence, the mechanics are already there to prevent this issue from nerfing solo-pvp. this would prevent pvp-lite (docking games) and allow quicker and more satisfying combat. fully supported. (if you're going to agress without support in a hostile area on a station, you deserve to get ganked.)"
"again....the point is simply this... if you intend to dock and to blow someone out of the sky then you should be prevented from redocking... end of story.undocking to open fire and then to redock is nothing short of stupid and hiding behind a big rock.i think its wholly fair to penalize your redocking abilities when you decide to agress.it's different if you decide to pop out quickly for a peek and redock... thats not entirely nice but you didn't agress... that's the key.and just because its easy for you to blow someone up so quickly with a nice blob at your disposal doesn't mean it will be that easy for the next one... not everyone is made of money and last i checked... no one made any money on pvp'ing.sorry for my terseness but honestly... this is so obvious its ridiculous."
"i like dis"
"so we are sitting docked up and an enemy gang throws a tank and tackle bs out front of the station with the blob sitting next door. we know they are there, and have a lot more than us, so it now comes down to timing. we can undock, kill the bs, and then de-aggro and try to re-dock before we lose much. maybe we succeed, maybe we fail, but either way its enough to make it worth a go. with this proposal we will stay docked as there is no way to escape the blob if they are any good at spreading points with their fast tackle ships.the point i'm making is that at present the option exists to take bait, knowing its bait, and get away with it. this makes baiting far more interesting.this proposal is a form of macho rule which in practice would simply discourage combat. it is also a massive boost for the blob and a huge knock on hit and run tactics making it a truly bad idea.i have no problem with changes to docking timers making it harder to de-aggress but the can't de-aggress idea would discourage combat."
"the problem is that a change to a docking timer will only mean pilots employing these tactics will just fit a bigger buffer. this is a boost to small-scale combat within station ranges. i don't see how it could possibly boost blobs; a blob will have enough firepower to make the kill within the current aggression timer anyway.aggressing and then docking is not \"hit and run\" it's \"hit and make it impossible to hit back.\" there is a very big difference.docking is a get out of jail free card. you can dock if you're warp scrambled. you can dock if you're in a bubble. currently you can even dock if you've been naughty and firing at someone as long as you wait for a very short amount of time.the very same bait ship you talked about have a small chance to take out in time will probably just de-aggress and dock anyway (it's a bait ship, duh), so this change ensures you will get that kill and are then able to warp off before his buddies jump you.among other problems, the current mechanics heavily penalize small ships attacking larger ships because the large ship pilot figures that if he can't make a quick kill, he can always de-aggress and dock -- and very often does so. i'm fine with a ship escaping; i'm just not fine with a ship deciding he's had enough and warp scramblers be damned he's going to dock.if you need an rp reason, then fine: in my mind, it's the station crew wiping the hands of the whole affair and saying, \"you wanted a fight, you've got a fight; we're not interfering. don't come whining to us when you've blown up.\" with the proposed mechanics, you can hit and run; you just can't hit and dock. this will result in more kills if possibly less combat. but what's the point of fighting if there's not going to be a kill?"
"i completely agree with this, and have always thought it would be an immersive and intriguing aspect to bring back into eve, although very much changed from how it was.i think they should be usable in highsec, just like smartbombs or most anything else, but if they happen to hurt something and you're around for it, good luck escaping concord.there should be a specialized ship for laying and retrieving mines, as you mentioned.mines cause severe damage to friend and foe alike, with simple and cheap mines being plainly visible on the overview and more expensive ones capable of cloaking themselves indefinitely (although this cloak will hide them from friendlies as well. mines can easily cause a lot of damage to friendly ships, which serves to help balance out their usage for defense.)smaller mines will go off on any sized ship.larger mines will be unable to detect the small signiature radius of smaller ships, therefore allowing them to pass unphased (this could hopefully deter the big alliances from trying to throw all of their pilots into cap ships for fleet wars.)mines can be placed at any distance from each other, but they will set each other off as well, so if you set them too close together then it's just going to blow up right in your face. no one ever said laying mines should be safe.laying mines should not be easy, either. the mine laying boat should be t2 and require a lot of specialized science, mechanics, and engineering training, as well as the modules to lay/retrieve/detect the mines.much like modern day line charges which are deployed by militaries, enemy ships could be fitted with a device that can attempt to blast a swathe through any expected mine fields.this is all likely just wishful thinking, but i would love to see it implemented as i was a combat engineer for the u.s.m.c. at one time, and have personally removed a lot of the little buggers from iraq myself."
"this is a very interesting idea imo, but i would think the figures given in terms of fire power are a bit ott?also, much like nothing with a brain would run through a minefield, there could be a caveat where \"ships moving over xxxm/s\" suffer more damage or dont have time to avoid any mines within range of them. explosion velocity would be a problem in this case (remove it lol).also, mines, afaik, arent and never have been more powerful than bombs for as long as bombs have existed, as such, perhaps itd be better to decrease the numbers across the board? so dps parity to bombs but they ccan be closer together?also, at the very least, youd have to be able to remove the models from the game as you can with drones.as for the problem posed by defensive minefields, how about a ship directly opposed to mines to balance it out? kinda like a fire ship of somesort, able to launch (le gaspe!) bombs to destroy mines? youd obviously need whole squadrons of these for the blob warfare thing, but we already do that with dictors, hictors and titans so why not??there are a lot of potential problems with mines, and im not proposing solutions (add ons rather) but itd certainly make sense from a fluff standpoint, and would add tactical depth that doesnt revolve arount ts spai's and metagaming (hi tri!!)."
"defense is generally too strong, and this would make it even stronger. yes, i can see it being used to harass folks as an offensive tool as well - but far less than as a defender sitting on a gate knowing that someone is coming though it looking for you.no thanks. perhaps after sov changes, we can see how fluid 0.0 space becomes."
"i absolutely disagree. you state that they are impossible to balance, based on what? they where implemented onse and it done badly. that it. they can be perfectly balanced if it is done right.first of all, to everyone who is writing about mines in the asteroid field- mines have to be 100km from any anhorable and object, that includes asteroids, read the first post.second there is immence amount of interesting ideas you can implement wiht mines.1st: you have to anhore them! that takes time, it is visible while being anhored, so you have to guard it.2nd: different mines set off at different range and some might be unable to set off on small ships, that means ship can get into range to decloack the mine, target it, fly awayt from it and blow up from distance. 3rd. they can have interesting effect like killing victims drives (both warp and slowing down normal drives) along with scrambling mwd for a mi8nute or 2 and appear on overview like cyno does.4rth: mines will not inta-pop small ship due to explosion velocity, can be given expolosion radius to have huge damage against cap ships. 5th: different mines can be anhorble in different secutiry ares, some being anhorable in low-sec, some (more powerfull and more deqadly ones) restricted to null-sec.all mines that can clock will be expencive.not all mines can cloack- why? the cheaper ones can be used to safespots and so on. give us a delay between mine uncloack and i't detonation for espeshially deadly ones, so small ships can escape. there will be no problems with lagg if you have a few, expencive and powerfull mines that can be anhored only far apart, rather then having a hundred mines, that you have to clean out and anhor and avoid.also we could use hacking to clear out mines!"
"i foresee mines placed at belt warp in points. ratter, warps in, and boom!thumbs down"
"i know, already over and over again offered to buff them by different ways, but i have not found nothing like my idea. already, there was much offers on inproving their role in combat but all offers were like: \"add more weapons, more armor\" etc. let's examin a covert fleet. it consists of exploringships (covert ops), ew ships (recon), damage dealers (stealth bobbers) and bo as rally point. see omissions??no? i see 2 of them:1)there is no command ships with warfare links. this can be fixed by adding covert jump brige using ability to t3 cruisers with covert reconfiguration.2)there is no logistics. (well exept sin, that carries repair drones) so here is my proposual: create new module, that gives bo at least half-power of oneiros (for example)module features: occupy high-slot +500% to remore armor repair and shield transfer range -100% movement speed 60s duration 500gj activation cost can't use guns/missiles while module activated. prequisites: logistics ivso that module gives large remote armor repair t2 range ~50km and provide adequate logistic support to fleet but leaves bo immobile.also i'd like decreace signature of bo to bc size (just like logistics cruisers) to it was harder to hit.this modifications shoud greatly increase black ops role in fleet combat, but not overpower them.shall be pleased any constructive critic"
"t3 cruisers with covert reconfig are already covert bridgable. you can set them up for either warfare links or for remote rep (remote shield tengu is far superior to remote armor anything though). basically what you're asking for is already covered."
"sorry missed thishowewer range of tengu shield transporters still 6 for medium and 8.4 for large ones. also capacitor lasts very quickly. and what are you thinking about decreaced signature?"
"take your absolutely awful idea to the correct forum"
"wow, no. i want black ops fixed like anyone, but giving them three roles in one makes it absolutely horrible overall. as it stands, they already allow covert jumping (which i want this to stay put), they do great dps compared to stealthbombers or recons, and better tank than any other covert ship. i still do not see the need for another command ship. especially on the black ops. i'd say leave it on the t3 ships. i believe all but the widow can use logistic drones just fine. no need to change the logistics part.--isaac"
"screw you guys with your \"it's been suggested before, never suggest it again\"go to hell.it's painful to deal with. only solution i've found is to corp-lock all bpos so they never get mixed up."
"i hear hell is nice this time of year."
"then you're not trying very hard. if you use them locally, use cans. if you use them remotely, the blueprints interface includes a \"copy?\" column. it's a huge pain, but not nearly as bad as you imply."
"if not change the icon, at least make the sort by type function move bpos to the top of all the other bps..."
"currently otou v - moon 7 - egonics inc. development studio, in the aeman constellation, in the region of sinq laison does not have a repair facility. as there are many other repair facilities ingame, it seems unfair that this station doesn't have one."
"supporting my own thread."
"agreed ^^"
"i can't approve of anything that would aid pirates, i'm sorry shigsy, you helped me into this game, but i can't support this :("
"i support this as otou is a very active system"
"supporting this post"
"supporting this. it's the only station in a very active system and doesn't have a repair facility."
"/me motions like caesar in rome..... thumbs downbooooooooooooooooo! (ducks cans of quafe)"
"that's quite an assumption. why should tp's be inherently worse than anything else?to borrow a phrase, you have epically failed on so many levels, it's beyond shameful.you made a blanket statement, and didn't expect to be challenged on it. why not? did this post wind up at hellokitty online or something?you based your blanket statement on, apparently, nothing more than a casual glance at the show info sheet for the target painter with no, as you admit in your own post, testing on your own part.you say you don't take statements as evidence, yet you willingly admit you have no evidence to back up your own posts?did you accidentally sweallow a box of stupid pills this morning or something? i mean this seriously - i'd assume you were simply mentally deficient, but i think that would be giving you too much of the benefit of the doubt.not to mention highly insulting to all the mentally deficient people in the world.if you want to make blanket changes to things with no evidence and no testing, go get a job in politics, but ffs leave eve alone."
"stop stealing my troll mojo!oh and uh... this."
"a fixed sig increase would be overpowered against smaller ships in pvp."
"thanks for the time you took for reading the thread. again, i was honestly hoping to keep this civil and i'll admit that perhaps some testing would have been a more appropriate base. however i do believe you're not taking into account that, while i may not have expected people to disagree that target painters need a tweak, i'm am entirely open to that premise being wrong. yes, in case you hadn't noticed, i am basically admitting to being wrong here.with regard to the comment about my assumption that tp's are inherently weaker, that is something you're reading into it. what you are referring to is what i was thinking of making them, not what i see them as currently, and the \"inferior\" remark there is meant on the tp a a counter to small ships. basically, what we're looking at here is a disagreement about how considered a proposal has to be before being posted in the assembly hall. again, it is quite conceivable that the work put into my proposal was not up to standard. personally, i have no problem discussing the effectiveness of mods on a theoretical basis although i do acknowledge the superiority of arguments backed by testing, but if that is not good enough in this forum i am more than willing to comply. and regarding the flames, i'd advice you to stop wasting your time. i do not get riled easily, so don't expect any tears."
"that depends on the fixed amount. if the amount is balanced enough, it would not be devastating, but significant. i intentionally neglected to include an actual proposed number, but let's go with 50m for t2 with max skills and no ship bonus. would that be devastating? or merely significant?"
"so again.. your just making a proposal without any valid proof.. no research... no testing.and you expect us to treat you with any amount of seriousness?whose the idiot again? i lost track... by the way you might want to wrap that up... your bleeding all over the place after you shot both of your feet."
"you've already admitted to trolling but you were constructive earlier, perhaps one last shot at reason in due. i have used target painters before - not a fixture in any of the fits i use, so i would not call it testing. no research is a bit harsh and again completely reliant on your definition - i am well aware of what the module does, from my own playing i am comfortable in stating that it does not see usage on the level of ecm or webs and also from my own experience that the ships that get a bonus to them (minmatar ewar) seldom fit them over webs. from then on we're back at the discussion of what is enough. quite obviously, i did expect to be taken seriously as i would readily take any proposal with a similar level valid argumentation behind it seriously."
"i don't need to define anything.... you said it yourself... twice now... if not thrice... you have not thoroughly looked into this... and yet your coming off as a holier than thou moron who thinks he knows what hes talking about.you getting the point yet?go back out there and start testing tp's out.... get a gang and stack im up... use tp drones.... look at all the angles.just coming up here and saying \"gee i used a tp once or twice and they dont do much and really suck\" is going to make you look like at total noob.that's not trolling... that's pointing out that your credibility is incredibly weak.that and you've ignored my question twice now about the skill books tied to them.. which doesn't speak much for your skill let alone intelligence.until you bother to go do the homework.. don't bother to be heard or given any respect either.anyone can post here... few can actually post with respect.yes i'm a troll... but i'm not the fool posting \"tp's suck\" and admiting i've not looked into it very much either."
"what can i say, you're a bad influence on me."
"if i come off as holier than thou, that's not intentional. my opinion is no more worth than any other. yes, i did not thoroughly investigate this matter, i never claimed nor meant to insinuate that i had and still i thought the reasoning behind my argumentation was solid. you and another made quite good and valid arguments as to why i was wrong and i conceded i was wrong. then this turned into a discussion about what this forum is for - a subject which we obviously don't agree on. i still do not see the good in berating me when i am clearly reasonable and am agreeing with you to a large extent. in any case, i don't believe there is anything interesting that can come from this discussion at this point, so don't expect any more replies. edit: session timer ate my reply :p"
"then why didn't you say so!!!de would have repsonded differently... as would have i.this is the first time you've actually come out and said you most likely have made a mistake.all you've done is say that your argument/proposal is solid.... and still are in fact.. when in fact its holier than swiss cheese.arguments require proof and facts.... you don't have the proof..and very little in the way of facts... that is the issue here... so don't push something that isn't proven yet.when you check it all out... come back... we'll talk then.i'm quite sure we all well be most eager to see your findings."
"shameless bump"
"i don't agree with disallowing players to buy and sell at whatever price they see fit. however, i do agree that trade needs a major overhaul. business and industry seem to go so overlooked by eve's designers.i believe that an acceptable solution to this, however, is branding. some way to provide players/corps/alliances to say \"these goods were brought to you by us!\" storefronts, throwing corp logos on item icons, perhaps even including the seller/buyers name in the market interface (gasp! who would have ever thought of that?)i know that many players simply wouldn't care from whence these goods came, but many would. and if you really don't like all those people who are exercising a little freedom by undercutting your prices at 0.01isk it would provide you with their names (without actually having to buy/sell from that order) ... i'm sure you can think of many creative things that mercenaries could do to someone you didn't like ...anyways, all four of the industry/business professions (prospectors, engineers, entrepreneurs, and executive commanders as the old character creation process called them, and as the new certificates still call them) need some major revamping and re-creating. a science fiction simulator (i've been using this phrase a lot, i know, but i *really* like the notion) isn't all about lobbing volkswagon-sized bullets at the other guy, is it?"
"the 0.01 isk undercutting is fine because it ensures that the seller who is most dedicated to selling his stuff actually sells it faster than people who are less dedicated to it.its the same for mission running and mining aswell. the people who are most dedicated to it get the most revenue out of it.in reality, the problem you are describing is that some people are able to spend more of their rl-time for playing eve than others. this problem is only solvable by ccp restricting the amount of hours a player is allowed to be logged into the game a day."
"agreed completely. and the way the game is currently coded, large obstacle though it may be, should be no excuse for simply refusing to implement a feature that just simply makes sense within an immersive game such as eve. yeah, i know, re-working the database in such a way as to make this possible could be very challenging. i also think that such a change would be more than worth it to the player community.another very simple thing that should be added to the market is the name/corp/alliance of the person to which any given buy/sell order belongs. the idea that all market orders are somehow \"masked\" so that you never know who you're buying/selling from seems silly. how do i know that i'm not buying something from my hated enemy? or that a corpie is selling something at a slightly higher price in this station but if i bought it from him the isk would stay in the corp?simple things like this would greatly improve market usability, which is one of the areas in which eve shines out above the competition and should make efforts to ensure that it continues to do so."
"very good idea, i could do with this."
"good! i hope to see vast improvements to the way alliances are permitted to operate via providing more options to players sometime soonish. really, any organization of players should never ever be limited by a simple (simple in the negative context of the word) user interface."
"excellent more hangers for me to potentially rob, i like it"
"evemail work for anyone? lol"
"well, ccp just fixed scanning, and they said they're looking closely at sovereignty mechanics (perhaps in the next expansion). i realize a lot of stuff needs fixed (some worse than others), but they seem to be taking that route. if history serves as any indication of pattern, they'll probably release some new content and fix some old content simultaneously, which is the right thing to do imho.i know that sovereignty, as well as mining, needs a good hit with a sledgehammer, but let's keep our hopes up. ccp loves this game as much as most of us do, and they're working on it (such as the ui)."
"i do support this, but i also understand where ccp is with this. fixing what isn't working doesn't attract new players nearly as effectively as new content. it has to be both, not either/or. that said, they should move more of their resources towards fixing current issues, not all their resources, but a bit more. this way they get both the new player and the continued playing of those that already subscribe.edit: i take the time to indent and the forum undoes my \"hard work.\" well then, blocky style you shall have."
"minutes of 2nd meeting added. sorry for the verbosity, the meeting was very long and i already feel i cut a lot..."
"please add:share dividends payout value"
"download: pdf | raw log - txtsaturday 30 may 2009present: dierdra vaal, vuk lau, avalloc, erik finnegan, larkonis trassler, meissa anunthiel, zastrow j, omber zombie, issler dainze, serenity steele, shatana fulfairasapologies: mazzilliu sorry for the length, the meeting was very long and i couldn't abbreviate too much, especially this early in the csm.dierdra reminded everyone to sign their nda and to wikify their issues when submitting them to the agenda before the deadline. for clarity, he also repeated the guidelines on how meetings are conducted.1. remote repping and agressionin raw text from: 2009.06.07 17:08:14dierdra introduced the issue.larkonis said he was favorable to the proposal, as it would assist against remote repping neutrals who flee during engagements. he requested that the dock/jump timer be tied to the recipient of the remote rep.oz agreed with larkonis, and requested that energy transfer be added to the list and that it starts a regular aggression timer instead of a \"blanket\" 1 minute timer.dierdra agreed to modify the proposal.erik liked the concept and the extension to all forms of assistance. erik also requested that this issue be discussed at the same time as issue number 5.dierdra stated that, as the issues aren't directly related, they would stay separate.avalloc agreed with the proposal. he however requested that outpost owner shouldn't get an aggression flag in this instance, as people repping station services would be prevented from docking again should hostiles decide to shoot at the service.dierdra objected that being shot doesn't incurr a dock/jump timer, only shooting back does.avalloc clarified his statement.dierdra considered it a good point that he would add.meissa requested clarification on larkonis' request that the repper's timer be tied to that of the repped, objecting to either interpretation anyway.meissa also opposed avalloc's suggestion on the ground that it would give the outpost owner free repping; something that isn't fair for the attacker.larkonis clarified that the aggro timer would only apply if the repped is agressed at that point, and as such does not give a disadvantage to outpost owners unless they have an aggression timer through other means. dierdra agreed.dierdra mentionned that that is what he had in mind, but that he didn't want to do any nitpicking over details, prefering to mention the problem to ccp and let them come up with their own solution.vuk agreed with meissa, stating that repping a station should incur aggro as well, clarifying as \"remote modules should have the same status as offensive modules when it comes to aggro mechanics\".serenity said that it will also affect the repping of poses and asked how we wanted to rule if the only solution was of the form of \"one size fits all\".avalloc replied to meissa that he didn't know wether ccp could code a very specific aggression system in, thereby requesting that 0.0 be exempt and stated again that people repping an outpost would be at the mercy of quick hostiles.meissa tried to clarify the issue by reformulating it as redefining an aggression act, as far as jumping/docking is concerned, to include \"assisting someone with an aggression timer\", with the same penalities.dierdra and erik agreed with the redefinition.meissa replied to avalloc that if there was [code for] an aggression timer for shooting outpost modules, code to handle penalties for repping those modules should be of the same difficulty.dierdra clarified that the vote was on \"on the remote boosting and aggression mechanic revision. (changes made due to the meeting: all forms of boosting are included). to clarify, this vote issue does not include an exception for 0.0 outposts\".issue passed unanimously (9 for, 0 against)"
"2. factional warfare, lack of developmentin raw text from: 2009.06.07 17:32:41erik introduced the issue.vuk asked if using eva's document was something we can do [note: the original proposal was changed to include a link to a word document that former csm member ankhe had redacted and privately sent to ccp]meissa stated that ccp had already aknowledged the issues presented in the proposal in csm meeting 2.3 and that the proposal misrepresented ccp's stance on alliances in fw, as they had already accepted to make it possible for alliances to join fw.issler said that fw was just one of many things needing atttention, of no higher priority than others, adding that ccp is already aware of the points made and that escalation was unnecessary.omber zombie had no issue asking \"wtf is going on with fw\" [sic] but was not sure that stating that they had broken a promise was correct, as they had already said they would do most of the things listed but hadn't given a timeline to their implementation.erik conceded that he might want to work on the phrasing, as it still carried \"ankhe's anger\". erik added he wants ccp to commit to something.vuk stated that the document included in the proposal would have to be removed, as it had not been presented publicly in the correct timeframe.meissa requested the proposal to be modified to be less whiney and presented in a less childish manner.erik stated he was not familiar with the proceedings and apologized for the mistake. erik further asked wether eva's document had been presented as part of a prior fw issue and as such was already public.omber zombie answered he had never seen the document before, that it was sent directly to ccp and that, had he seen it before, he would have \"ripped it to pieces\".dierdra agreed with omber zombie, adding that it was fair to ask ccp about their plans for fw, and siding with issler in stating that fw wasn't more important than other issues presented.serenity said that if issues are raised for which there is no specific communication, their relative priority in the product backlog should be requested.issler expressed her sadness that ankhe sent the document without csm review, further noting that the wording was unacceptable.erik conceded that we could not design the game for ccp and as a consequence he would skip eva's document. he added that considering lag wasn't solved, this is a general issue. he also agreed with serenity's suggestion, and what meissa said.meissa stated that prioritization is done prior to the meeting with ccp, and that the discussion was on wether we wanted this particular topic adressed as presented.omber zombie suggested changing the issue to request explanations as to where development of fw was, and when said developments would reach the game.dierdra requested that erik clarifies what the csm will vote on.erik asked if we can ask ccp to commit to anything.dierdra answered that we can ask, but they can deny the request.omber zombie added that a request for information couldn't be avoided.erik restated the issue as \"a request to give fw a higher priority\"the issue failed to pass (8 votes against, 1 for)3. industry expansionin raw text from: 2009.06.07 17:56:03omber zombie introduced the issue.omber zombie stated that despite the issue listing a few specifics, it was essentially an open question for ccp to answer.shatana, meissa said they would love to see some effort in that direction, as the industry patch was overdue.issler added that mining really needs some love and as such, getting ccp to comment on the revamp is needed.dierdra agreed with everyone, since it is simply asking ccp for information, he has no problem supporting the motion.issue passed (8 for, zastrow against [voted late])"
"4. logistic drones (hull repair drones)in raw text from: 2009.06.07 18:03:03vuk lau introduced the issue.no questions from anyone.issue passed (9 for, 0 against).dierdra added that real men hull tank, after all.5. change to agro mechanics rep outlawsin raw text from: 2009.06.07 18:05:08larkonis introduced the issue.shatana agreed with lark's issue.omber zombie asked if one would get a gcc (global criminal countdown) if the person one is repping incurs a gcc while being repped. larkonis confirmed.erik suggested the auto-cycle should end in that case.larkonis pointed out that you normally get a little pop-up if you try to rep someone with a gcc.erik suggested the repper should have a way of avoiding acquiring a gcc in that situation.larkonis answered that it is currently already the case.vote passed (9 for, 0 against)"
"6. factional warfare lag needs fixing nowin raw text from: 2009.06.07 18:15:14erik introduced the issue.issler stated that ccp knows lag needs fixing and that she doesn't see how bringin up lag related to fw makes any sense at all.meissa quoted ccp wrangler and ccp ryand's forum posts saying [paraphrased for the minutes] \"we know, please don't bump, we'll let you know\"omber zombie asked how, other than whipping the coders, erik expected ccp to fix this faster.erik replied that they had successfully adressed the lag in 0.0 on a much bigger scale.omber zombie answered that this what a global system upgrade. to which erik replied that it didn't work for fw systems.dierdra asked if the lag was specific to certain fw situations or if it was \"regular lag\" due to many people in the same place.larkonis stated that big 0.0 fights are easier to predict.issler answered that it hasn't been solved for 0.0 and that ccp is definately trying to improve it again.avalloc answered that the 0.0 lag was adressed by reinforcing nodes and that he imagined in fw systems are randomly lagged as blobs moved about.erik aknowledged ccp's aknowledgement of difficulties, but wants them to be more precise. he conceded to lark and avalloc that it may be a predictability issue.shatana noted that as lag was not predictable, it was hard to manage perfectly.erik said ccp has been posting \"we are looking into it\" for months and requested they be more specific.dierdra asked if erik would like to adjust his issue to ask ccp where they are in terms of fw lag investigation as opposed to asking them to boost their effort in that area.erik said he would like ccp to be more specific. he mentioned that the emotions are high because ccp does explain why there's no fix, after months of trying.dierdra mentionned that he can support the reworded issue.issler wondered what erik was expecting, as any further info would get seriously technical.omber said that ccp already stated they're working on it. oz also wondered how would the csm asking cause a different answer than the one they're already giving.erik replied that ccp has been more precise in other areas, that there's no reason they can't here.omber zombie asked wether erik had considered the possibility ccp might not have figured the problem yet.erik answered that the csm asking would be a nice hint to ccp to increase their effort, although he was not litterally asking for that.meissa provided exemples of technical answers that wouldn't help at all and restated his point that the devs have already said on multiple occasions that they're aware of the problem and expressed his opinion that harassing them won't provide a faster solution.vuk agrees that fw needs some love, but agrees with oz that this issue is pointless. he would however be happy to vote on a general fw issue as oz did for the industry expansion.dierdra said that requests have resulted in more elaborate explanations in the past and that he sees supports asking ccp for more information. dierdra further explained that the frustration comes from the lack of communication as it is just a matter of people not liking being ignored.erik thinks it's valid for the csm to ask if the forum didn't bring the desired responses.meissa expressed his opinion that saying people are ignored is stupid as the numerous devs replies on the forum attest to the contrary.issler noted that any answer ccp might give right now wouldn't make any sense to someone who's not a software engineer with knowledge of how eve is implemented, and as such would be of little value.erik explained that it was more a matter of csm sending a signal that something in fw isn't right more than a technical explanation.issler didn't think the csm needed to signal ccp about fw.issue failed ( 5 against, 4 for: erik, dierdra, meissa, oz)."
"7. reroll default overview settings to pre apoc 1.2in raw text from: 2009.06.07 18:45:52larkonis introduced the issue.meissa agreed with the proposal but was unsure about the blinky part as it now clearly states someone who will shoot you (blinky) vs someone you can shoot at (red, blinky or not).larkonis answered that the blinky part was a question of pride for the outlaws.dierdra agreed with some changes to the default on the basis that it is harder for newbies to identify threats now, and that he loves his newbies and wants to keep them safe..ish.meissa and larkonis argued a tiny bit more on the blinky part without exactly adding new elements.issue passed unanimously.8.give assault frigates a 4th bonusin raw text from: 2009.06.07 18:56:50erik introduced the issue.omber zombie agreed they definately need to be looked at, but is unsure the examples given are required.dierdra asked how many needed rebalancing. he pointed out that the ishkur was already pretty good and that the afs should be boosted because they're not good enough, not because all the other t2 ships have 4 bonuses. shatana agreed.erik agreed that he was uneasy about that argument and that we should focus on putting them in the right line of power with other t2 ships.larkonis agreed that most of the afs need a little buff and that a 4th bonus shouldn't be added for the sake of adding one.vuk added that beside missing a 4th bonus, afs are suffering from a crapy slot layout that make tanking them passively or actively a difficult thing, concluding that a role bonus of -50% cap reduction on reppers would be a viable bonus for afs.erik answered that he didn't think we need to point out exactly the details on how to boost the afs. vuk agreed.dierdra expressed his support for the issue since afs seem a bit underpowered and that they need to be brought in line with other t2 ships, but not necessarily focusing on a 4th bonus.shatana said a general look at the afs was a good idea.meissa agreed with dierdra, and replied to vuk that speed tanking the afs was also somewhat of an option.oz agreed with dierdramotion passed unanimously."
"9. factional warfare wardec mechanicin raw text from: 2009.06.07 19:14:40oz mentionned that this proposal could be exploitable thusly: 1. i make an alt corp, 2. i join militia with alt corp. 3 my main corp wardecs alt corp, 4. militia gets a free wardec back on my corp. 5. i just got to wardec most of a militia for the cost of wardeccing a single corp.larkonis answered that the offer was only for corps who wanted to and not automated.meissa didn't see why they should have a common front, further stating that one corp wardeccing a fw corp would end up facing 10 or 15 with no associated cost to the other fw corps, and that nobody else gets free wardecs when their friends get one.larkonis answered that if the attacker doesn't expect more counter-dec, it only means the attacker should have done a more thorough homework, and that there is no guarantee a corp will receive help. he also added that the agressor can always retreat.dierdra requested clarification. he also believes a free war not to be right, although a reduction of the cost may be acceptable, regardless of the fact that the base fees are too low, in his opinion.larkonis explained that the proposal can be summarized as: \"corp a wardecs militia corp (corp m), all other militia corps get a counter dec, either for free or at base cost. corp m decs corp a, this option is not available to corps within corp m's militia\".meissa pointed out that any reduction in cost increases the odds of counter decs, and that the attacker decided to dec one corp, not one + some.shatana didn't think fw members should get free wardecs.dierdra asked if the \"free dec\" part would be removed from the proposal.larkonis agreed and pointed out that this is merely a way to allow militia corps an easier means to render aid to their fellow militia mates.meissa replied that the normal wardec fees were surely not too much to ask in order to help such good militia mates.larkonis stated once more that the costs quickly add up for all parties involved.dierdra suggested the focus be put more on the spirit of the proposal rather than a specific implementation. he was also inclined to agree with meissa, saying that the increased fee is minimal, with the exception of an alliance wardeccing a fw corp.larkonis answered that the costs rises by 2 mil for each beligerent involved, and that if 20 corps were to counter dec, the bill would be 40 mil, with was significant albeit not a huge amount.motion failed (7 against, 2 for: larkonis and erik finnegan)10. the new l4 agents - wrong approachin raw text from: 2009.06.07 19:38:40erik introduced the issue.dierdra asked wether the proposal was a request to change/revert the current agent additions. erik answered negatively, that it was more to add agents, but to the right side.avalloc said that according to the forum post, ankhe wanted 23 new l4 agents for each non-caldari faction, something he was not to keen on.dierdra reminded that the csm is voting on the wiki issue, not the forum thread.erik said that the details would be left to ccp, but that the other factions were kinda forgotten.meissa believed the agent change was because caldari agents hubs are overcrowded, a problem less significant for other factions. he added that more l4 agents for the other factions would be nice.dierdra commented that the issue seemed to lump together a number of issues that all have a common root cause (the nature of which was not explained in his message). he suggested it be explained better in the issue description.omber zombie explained that the change was to spread the system load, and that it worked. adding that while more agents for all factions would be nice, the agent system as a whole needs revision.erik agreed that the bundling of these issues might not be good. he asked wether he could withdraw the issue to split and rephrase and bring back later for a vote.chairman agreed, the issue was therefore withdrawn by erik."
"11. sentry gun aggression and dronesin raw text from: 2009.06.07 19:49:27larkonis introduced the issue.issler didn't think leaving people to fight at the gates longer was the way to go, adding that gate guns need to be buffed as being able to permanently tank sentry guns was never intended.larkonis replied that 90% of the fights occur at the gates, and that players tanking sentry guns was not the issue, except insofar as sentries not shooting drones would actually increased dps on players.omber zombie asked how this would prevent him from tanking a sentry in highsec and using his drones to kill someone before concord arrives.larkonis explained that sentries work on a 30 seconds cycle and that the agressing ship will always take the first cycle and since concord shows up well within 30 seconds even in 0.5, drones are never primarily agressed by sentries in highsec.meissa agreed with larkonis that fight occur at gates and that he didn't want gate guns to be boosted. sentries not shooting drones would add more variety and he therefore supported the proposal of making drones immune on the condition that ships are available in range to be shot at.dierdra disagreed with issler, also stating that fight occur at gates. he expressed his concern that this technique could be exploited, particularly in highsec with drone suicide ganks.larkonis answered that concord disables the drones as well as the aggressor ship.issler continued on her point that gate guns are, in her opinion, a joke, leading to perma-camped gates.larkonis replied that operating under sentries will be unchanged and that anyone knowing what he's doing can get any ship through a lowsec camp.erik liked that the proposal fosters diversity in lowsec fights, an aspect on which he agreed with meissa. he added that gate camps are a seprate issue.motion passed (5 for, 4 against: issler, zastrow, vuk, omber zombie)other businessgeneral chatter ensued about the time of the next meeting (which was agreed to be on june 21st), reporting on issue passing/failing during the meeting and the nda coverage status of discussion with former csm members."
"thank you for the minutes, meissa anunthiel"
"woot thanks meissa! i was really interested in the assault frig discussion and the industry expansion (or lack thereof). appreciate the work you all do!"
"interestingly enough, ccp has an inhouse system they use to create the trailers, dire lauthris used it to make his last movie/chronicle. if a cut down version of that was able to be made public, or included as part of the game client i'm sure you would get some pretty insane videos coming out.that is entirely up to ccp in the end, so i'm not sure what csm could actually do to help that come about other than asking ccp to release it, and i'm pretty sure ccp know that players want to be able to do that without the csm telling them that."
"i think we'll keep pushing for it thanx."
"well, since there's still no answer from either ccp or csm on this topic, i'd like to simplify things by preparing a series of possible answers for them to choose from:[ ] while we are still working to implement the change to allow alliance participation in fw, our original timeline was overly optimistic. we now hope to have the fix integrated by roughly ____________(insert date here).[ ] who gives a crap about the so-called 'rp' alliances?! if they want to get involved in what little storyline-based mechanics we've deigned to incorporate into eve, they can just go ahead and disolve the organizations they've spent years building and join one of our solidly organized militia npc corps instead.[ ] wait, you guys actually want to be in fw? hell, we were going to scrap it during the next patch anway, because it sucks and we can't be arsed to fix it. our staff is far too busy with the upcoming major expansion \"[bold]invasion of ... muppets iiiiin spaaaaace!!!1!eleventy1[/bold]\" we're very excited about the way we've adapted sleeper mechanics to make miss piggy a real challenge...[ ] uh ... who in what now? not a clue what you're talking about. who's this 'zulupark' guy who gave you that 'early 2009' estimate, and what was he smoking? heck, what's this 'fw' stuff you're talking about?"
"i am definitely not supporting the idea of \"alliances\" in \"faction\" warfare, on grounds that the only difference between \"alliances\" and \"factions\" is that factions are run by npcs. an alliance, for all intents and purposes, is a faction.look at it this way, factions are just \"groups\" of npc corporations. alliances are just \"groups\" of player corporations. the fact that there was a difference in the naming of both just reeks of sloppy design to me, perhaps two different design teams, one focused on npcs who went with the name \"factions\" and another focused on player interactions who went with the name \"alliances.\"letting an alliance become part of a faction would be like letting the amarr become part of the caldari. it just plain doesn't make much sense.if you want to be a part of one of the npc factions, leave your current alliance (*cough* faction *cough*) and join theirs! pretty simple, right?"
"signed please give us the old animation"
"/signed"
"dear god.frigates are fun as hell to fly, because they're fast, exhilarating, and maneuverable. for those exact reasons (excluding exhilaration :p) they're already plenty powerful. i strongly believe that those of you who are asking for an af buff are people who are not yet accustomed to flying frigate-class ships. i used to suck miserably at flying ishkurs- i fit them very similarly to how i do today, but i just didn't know how to use them properly- i think my record was losing one within 30 minutes of fitting it >.> it takes quite a bit of practice to master flying them, as they're small, and squishy if you make the wrong move- but to someone who knows what they're doing, afs are nearly indestructible.really- stop complaining that your vengeance isn't putting out as much dps as a zealot- with the right setup, head to head, you'd win.this is coming from someone who's absolute favorite ship class is the assault frigate- they do not need a boost. any of the proposed changes would make the class ridiculously overpowered."
"another ishkur pilot claiming afs are fine. why am i not surprised? ishkur is by far the best af. the others would be on par with the ishkur after getting a 4th bonus.imagine an ishkur with just the drones for dps. then you'll have about the same dps as a vengenace or hawk. even without the drone bay, blasters and 1 magstab will do the same dps as a jaguar! in fact an ishkur does a lot more dps then a wolf, whilst having full tackle. if you'd have read the thread you'd see that most people here feel the ishkur is overpowered. your claim that it is just fine is ok though, because the aim is for all afs to be at that level."
"...and if you'd have read this thread, you'd have heard my counter-argument:retribution: adds great dps to frig gangs with an insane tankvengeance: tackles fine, and tanks almost as well as the retrijaguar: puts out ridiculous dps, and has the great advantage of speed over other afs (in addition to a solid buffer tank)wolf: dps similar to jag, but slower, better active tankishkur: can be fit as either close-range for crazy dps with a small tank, or long range for sustained tackling with drones on your preyenyo: makes a great tackler, as it has a ridiculous tank for an af, and with scan res rigs, targets as fast as interceptorsharpy: blarpies put out- fill the highs with blasters and one nos, and even neuted you'll be able to permarun a tank that can withstand a flight of bonused hobgoblin iishawk: probably the best anti-af platform- hop rockets on one and maybe a nanofiber internal structure to help stay in range, and watch frigs get wtfpwnedi'm honestly tempted to cross-train into other afs just so i can show you first hand evidence that they don't need a buff- but until then:loki farseer - caldari af pilot with 29 kills in afs to 3 lossesbrigita grohman - even more ridiculous #s of kills to loses in a amarr afsdanny x - 25 kills in minmatar afs to 0 lossesand again: tortugan - 78 : 3 with gallentequit complaining."
"the only thing my vengeance assaults is my will to actually fly the ship."
"good god sir! you mean i wouldn't have to send all my money to my alt i rarely log on!"
"i support this proposal.the inability to filter on only one type of scannable object was simply a programmer oversight. i refuse to believe that this was truly a design decision. this is clearly a case of the \"it's a feature, not a bug\" syndrome.if ccp really wants unscannable probes, they should introduce a covert probe variant. making all probes unfilterable is a cop out."
"you can find them now, it's just annoying; i don't see the balance issue with adding them and so i fully support this.there is nothing balanced about an annoying ui."
"currently as it is you can lock your blueprints so you can put them up for everyone to use them without having the fear that they will be stolen (a great system imho).now to lock and unlock these en mass is a pain in the back and should have been fixed long ago. what you need to do is cast a vote wait for all shareholders to cast their vote and when that's done the blueprint is locked. next to that you have to do this for every blueprint individually. this is neither time efficient or useful in whatever reason, unless your corp is really dependant on shareholders and want to keep the have an influence on the votes to unlock/lock blueprints.my suggestion to fix this horrible horrible system:make a settings bar at the vote office for blueprints. you can keep them on or turn them off completely (this should be a vote btw) if you keep them on the system stays as is. if you choose to put them off then ceo or anyone with the designated role of technical security officer (new role) should be able to unlock/lock the blueprints easily and en mass. also by adding the option of being able to unlock/lock multiple blueprints lots of time could be saved.so what it comes down to:- get rid of a pain in the back system- keep the option to have your shareholders still have influence on bpo's- have the ceo be able to unlock/lock blueptrins en masse if you decide to move your corp office- make it so that you are able to unlock/lock multiple blueprints at oncetl;dr - change the vote system for unlock/locking blueprints"
"ceo/director locking/unlocking bpo's sounds good to me... can even make it role based.this system should be stripped from the shareholders period.they should not have any direct control over this area."
"supported."
"/ supported"
"oh, this would be good..."
"there are some really cool ideas in there, but drones are mentioned to mine the asteriods and ice etc, what does this leave for ppl that like to mine? i know not every1 likes to pew pew all the time in 0.0!! or would everything these drone mine just go to alliance holding corp etc etc?"
"i agree with nerfing reprocessing, in fact i'd like to see a 75% cap on scrapmetal reprocessing.well, lets assume a roid that is 99% veldspar and 1% arkonor. as it is being mined, early on, mostly due to rounding, virtually no arkonor would be pulled from the rock. however, as the veldspar is pulled out, and arkonor remains, the effective concentration of ark increases, until it eventually reaches a mineable point. basically, as the rock is depleted, all ores will eventually be extracted."
"i don't need to eb a designer to know how stupid is any sort of grinding (as much as people who \"enjoy\" it i guess). if you can't think about more proactive forms for a minign system you lack imagination, soem hints for you: the effort on mining should much more about finding the resources and set up for exploitation than sitting idle moving stuff from one deposit to other.anyway youc an ask what you want to ccp, but as long as is as boring as now, don't cry when 40% of mienrals are coming from loot."
"what exactly do you have in your mind? systems where you shoot at rocks and pull in tiny pieces have already been realized, systems where you rely on static towers are part of tech 2 production or would you rather see a system where asteroids work like containers in archeology/salvaging/hacking plexes and you open them by unlocking them with mining lasers?i mean theoretically it might be possible to move the static recource provision system (asteroid belts) and create a dynamic one - i.e. sector wide distributed dust clouds that \"condensate\" to asteroids or condensate at so called seeds, this might or might not depend on the density a dust cloud has at a certain position.those seed could be a natural occurance or drops from a mobile giant asteroid that passes through systems on certain routes and people could mine them for this seeds to plant own asteroid belts.besides asteroid mining dust collectors could be a possible ship equipment, another new addition would be space dust harvesting sentries/stations. that are planted inside dust clouds their harvesting outcome depending on the density of the dust cloud - worse than a battleship miner yet work 24 hours.an possibel hard core scenario would be that besides the dust harvesting sentries/stations also asteroid seeds are destructible and this way a roaming gang would be able to paralyse the industrial section of the owner of a certain space. who would then be required to weit for natural seeds to occur seed new asteroid belts himsel and set up new space dust harvesters.well it just one idea and allows both kinds to exist, those that like the grind and those that don't want to deal with it's hassle."
"i support this :) fans give as ccp gives - a little bit of fun back and forth doesn't hurt anyone. the people opposing it have fatally flawed logic on the issues and cannot see that by having his titan moved to hi-sec, it's actually being pretty much gimped.and to the person saying chribba could jump it back to low-sec - i'm pretty sure he can't jump it via the gates either, nor why would he?learn to have a little fun - you're paying 15 bucks a month for it afterall."
"approved."
"got my vote"
"yes! but dont let him dock it, it's bad enough when the bastard undocks his rev and bumps everyone a mile"
"can't believe i missed this. supporting chribba to support my eve fun."
"it would be a pr coup"
"you don't meet the requirements to train this skill.seems self explanatory."
"you don't meet the requirements to reply to this post.seems self explanatory.in case your wondering with your omgwtfpwn....the idea is that you will meet the requirements if the required skills are done within the queue time frame... if you change your queue before you finish.. skills are ejected into the point of origin of which they where injected or the nearest station if it was a ship at the time.if you dont have the brains or the sense to read the post then please.. don't bother responding... just say no... makes you look smarter than you are now."
"yup, my pet peeve as well, on all the alts i'm currently training. make it so!"
"an annoyance i have had so many damn times. i go to empire to do a bit of skill shopping and i would have to wait 5 hours to get that skill finally plugged in.then of course something happens stuff going on in 0.0 you know the deal and you will have to clone jump. extending the time again until you visit empire and are able to inject that skill.i say yes to this proposal but i do wonder if it would be possible with the current code around skill training."
"this one issue has been rather frustrating at times."
"yeah development is, they are perfecting it. a version of it was played by lots of people at the last eve fest. not a video, they played it. it's coming soon.besides, it's pretty obvious most people here want to get out of their ships and have a beer on occasion."
"i am a drone specialist and have noticed that i'm not the only one who feels that drones need more love.just to explain abit to those who may not understand, drones as a damage source are viewed differently and even backwards when compared to most peoples views. my fittings, tactics and ships i fly are all centered around drones as a primary dps and not secondary or supplementali have 2 ideas for drone upgrades (suggestions or detailed changes are welcome)the first is a hull upgrade/conversion, it would increase the drone bay(and in some cases putting one where there was none).there would in-effect be small, medium and large versions of this module.these would be low slot items, require mechanic skill, hull upgrades skill as well as 1 or 2 drone skills and have set values rather then percentages.i see the smaller version having a drone bay increase of 10 and a hull hp reduction of 75 to 100.the medium version giving a drone bay increase of 25 and around 250 to 500 hull hp reduction.then the large giving 50 drone bay and a hull hp reduction around 1000 to 2000(exact values would, of course, be decided and balanced by ccp)one of the obvious draw backs to drones is that they can be destroyed, currently frigs, with the exception of the ishkur, have no extra dronebay for backup drones, and most non-drone ships cruiser class and up that do have bays usually only have the equivalent of there bandwidth the second module would would increase bandwidthwould be a high slot, require electronics skill, electronic upgrades skill and again 1 or 2 drone skillsa small version would give 5 bandwidth, use 2 to 5 power grid and 10 to 20 cpumedium version would give 15 bandwidth and require 25 to 100 power grid and 25 to 40 cpularge would give 25 bandwidth and require 200 to 400 power grid and 35 to 55 cpu(exact values would, of course, be decided and balanced by ccp)the medium and large versions of both types of modules would be sort of unofficial t2 modules in that they would have much higher skill requirementsthese modules would allow the increased use of drones at the cost of fitting and hull buffer, of course there would be little or no need for them on a ship like the dominix, but would more then anything allow a greater use of drones on ships that would otherwise have a weak drone fielding, again at the cost of fitting and hull buffer. it could vastly improve many frigs for the use of drones, as they are generally lacking in this more then any other ship class"
"sounds conservative and reasonable.you have my thumb sir."
"good ideas, amasai.the increased drone bay has been suggested, but i don't particularly think the reduced hull hp is the right disadvantage to give it. i would think that a reduction in cargo space of the same amount of size or more would fit better (you're essentially just moving the partition divider).the bandwidth augmenter is something that would have to be carefully balanced. while i would like to see it, qa would have to be very careful about this, and i see it being pre-nerfed upon release to be balanced later."
"both of these seem reasonable."
"i am all for the swarm."
"oh yeah, i'm loving this idea."
"as a small-ship enthusiast, i wanted to hate it; but i like it."
"didn't you get the memo? ccp are phasing out drones as a weapon system on the grounds that the caldari cry about them.however, i fully support these changed. don't expect any feedback, or anything really, from ccp regarding this though - they have been ignoring this issue for years."
"this is exactly what we in fw have been wondering about quite a bit...csm failed hard in their voting, just need to push this up i guess... the problem is dire and it affects everyone participating in fw. that's quite a bit of the player base."
"i'm sorry that you feel that way. there has been no updates on this in a long while. is csm not here to tell ccp what is worrying the player base?"
"i pay the same for my subs as someone in 0.0. any chance i could get the same service?"
"spoken as someone who truly knows absolutely nothing of 'roleplaying' and the alliances that engage in it.edit: and if 'alliances' were the equivalent of 'factions' then 'ushra'khan' would be able to declare war on the 'amarrian empire'. which would be another way of solving the basic problem here."
"not supporting. as will come time more experienced corporations will leave random miltias and more newbie corporations will join with increasing number of subscriptions any alliance in fw would roll over them with force they would be not able to counter. (huge number of carriers, t2 ships, higher skilled player with more dps and skills)."
"makes sense to me. most people would rather fly a ship that will allow them to show up on a killmail than fly a logistics ship (or worse, fit a weapon in place of a rep). having logistics pilots show up on killmails would more than likely encourage people to use these ships more."
"i'm all for it."
"it's not a perfect solution - when no friendlies die, there are no lossmails to get on - but it could also provide a means of getting evidence of the wardec abuse people are on about these days (neuts consistently repping one side would quickly become apparent, providing some are actually killed)"
"i agree with all sayd above."
"no to the idea. if there's a station camp, too bad. get a covops buddy to check it out for you."
"native aa support please"
"even if there are ways to force it on, uer shoould not have to go though different aa modes and esveral programs, because many pc users don't even know what aa realy is, so many peope cannot experience it, there is only a handfull of people that know the tecnical side of it well enought to tweak and setud aa with hdr as it is. i managed to make it stable with trying out different aa modes and enhancer setting, but i still recieve alot of artifacts. what the majority needs is a aa option in menu."
"support, as i am getting a new computer and monitor soon and i would like eve to look pwetty when i get it"
"support. in-game graphics at the highest level, but make sure it's user-controllable, so those folks on small laptops and old systems can still play reasonably"
"the following characters have been paid their isk for participation asof wednesday 10.jun 09 20:58 (gmt+1):agent knownshi'akotothecoredemon azrakelswearte widfarend"
"seems like a nice graphics feature to add."
"who wouldn't want options that make the game look better?"
"bribing your voters? good idea!"
"supported if you give my million to some poor noob instead."
"in the u.s. we call it \"lobbying\"."
"i need iskies. combat shiny stuff strikes your wallet wrecking for omgwtfbbq damage oh, yeah, native aa in eve would be very nice."
"a million isk is chump change to the greater majority of eve... ethical issues aside."
"definitely support this!"
"+1 to support. bots suck. they throw off the balance of the game. i enjoy my cheap modules and whatnot that i can currently buy, but someone making irl money by screwing up my in game economy... no bueno."
"idk if ccp is willing to tackle this, but it's long overdue and obvious"
"i don't like bots more than anyone else, but all this guy's done is trace alts. there are plenty of legitimate reasons to want a lot of alts. this isn't proof - this isn't even close to proof. if you're going to ban the number of accounts that this sort of activity implies, you're going to need a hell of a lot better reason than \"he bought alts and didn't shave pennies doing it\". and no, \"he updates his trades quickly\" is not proof that he's a bot. provide some actual evidence and you might get somewhere, provide this level of fantabulation and i won't blame ccp for ignoring you. it's easy to say \"fix the bot problem!!!1!\", but you're not the one whose ass is out on the line, trying to tell legitimate, dedicated players that because they're too good at your game they're not allowed to play any more. just how many honest players are you willing to false-positive accounts away from in your pursuit of a bot-free game? and don't bother answering that question - it's painfully obvious that most of you haven't even considered it. yeah, i'd like to see fewer, but i'm not stupid enough to think that ccp is just ignoring the problem - unlike you, they actually have to look at the consequences of the decisions that you want them to make. no wonder they're more cautious than you lot."
"ouch. how's botting working out for you? jk? the problem is they're not legitimate, dedicated players, but akin to chinese gold farmers in wow, using third-party programs (against the eula) to have 23/7 harvesting or market updates or whatever. yea, it's one thing to say \"you're reducing your own income\" to get rid of the bots. but is it really worth it to the point where \"legitimate, dedicated players\" don't want to play anymore because it's ruining the game for everyone else? i happen to be in both trading and mining, and i don't have the advantage of a program doing everything for me. along with a majority of the bots \"asdekarvczcx\" and \"brrtjewsdfcv\" being used for isk-sellers and spammers, i think i wouldn't mind ccp losing a few customers. being good at eve isn't a problem. updating your market order precisely every 300 seconds indefinitely is a problem. using a bot is bad logic. what's the point of having a program play a program? edit: my proposed solution: much like google, eve would keep track of any precisely repeated task you're doing. (say, spamming local via crtl+v or updating the markets systematically, or mining perfectly or anything too suspicious) after a half hour of the same thing, info box comes up: \"eve has detected actions that resemble a bot. (programmed repeated commands) please enter the captcha below to continue playing. thanks, eve deveopment team\" if not answered in 5 minues, you wouldn't be logged off, but all actions would stop, and you'd be stuck at the captcha prompt screen. of course this wouldn't apply to a freighter on auto-pilot, but you get the idea."
"during my stay in reykjavik, i brought this issue up with the devs. they said that proof is the hard part, but that they're working on it.i was expecting some kind of action that would've rocked their world (due to the nda, i can't go into details), but it still hasn't happened after 4+ months. it seems it will now happen soon (sometime or often never).something needs to be done, as this kind of abuse is offsetting the very thing that attracts many players (the laissez-faire market system). the effects also trickle down, and yet ccp has yet to exert any major effort without a huge effect (the pos exploit).fly to any ice belt in high-sec, and you'll find some real players, but also a lot of bots. npc 0.0 space is also pretty full of em. caldari mission-runners tend to have a lot, and courier missions in low-sec are also pretty insane for botters.while i don't know what can be done, i've submitted ideas in the past. something has to be done, and soon (sans the tm). supported."
"yes, please."
"you guys make me laugh... seriously...it's utterly hilarious.\"we should fire all of ccp if a single player can resolve this!\"i lol'd"
"also do something again the macrominers and couriermission bots !!!!supported"
"the post linked by the op just got locked while i was reading it"
"curious as i see exactly the opposite. i go to the ice belts in high sec that i know, some very near to amarr, and i see only characters with regular names, doing what appears to be not botted ice mining. naturally, i can't prove they aren't bots exactly as you can't prove they are. i think it is a matter of prospective: you (and a lot of people) want to mark as bots everyone that is not you mining and proof be dammed, i think that what is not proved can be suspected but is not proved. btw: to the op. link the thread title. the link is not working currently."
"lol, wtb tinfoil hat, in bulk. need at least three family sets. will pay cash!the thread has been erased (no, not locked, evaporated), so i can't link it i'm afraid. it was working yesterday, but today it's gone. i wonder why. i need some tinfoil hats!"
"link it from chribba server then (eve files)."
"righty o', new linky:"
"you are the laugh here. is not about firing anyone, but about bots. anyone not supporting this is indirecttly supporting bots and agaisnt-eula advantage, what about ccp enforcing their own rules or making the gamefair for all?stop this crapp. is unfair for dedicated traders, and against-eula when is a scheme for rmt."
"actually, using bots/macro's is against the eula irrespective of rmt. in my opinion, they should either allow bots/macro's, or do something about it.at the moment the only people that \"can\" use bots are people with a lot of resources and knowledge, as they can hide what they're doing better. this is why i feel that something needs to be done. i really don't feel that a lot is being done atm. all the threads i see about this every day kinda proves me right.the average player gets booted for botting/macroing, where as the big organized operations that have a real impact on the game get away with it. unfair advantage anyone?"
"rmt is the most serious threat to eve and albeit for us players its just a game we might lose but for ccp their jobs are at stake. they better should take this more serious since for years this is happening and up to a point that it is now seriously affecting the player community. and with those amounts of rl currency its not totally unthinkable that for certain individuals to withstand the temptation of bribes."
"especially after the ricdic scam. rmt needs to stop.macros need to stop.bots that spam in local need to stop.market bots need to stop.miner bots need to stop.market bots need to stop.ratting/mission bots need to stop.if none of the above are stopped then they should all be allowed. end of discussion."
"who said i was supporting any of that crap?i said i was laughing at you people for being totaly stupid and idiotic to think that any amount of ideas you can generate would have a snowballs chance in hell of working.you need to keep in mind i have a knowledge in server's and sysadmins that maintain backend systems.most of you gamers are all living in a fish-bowel that]s called eve... you make a lot of stupid assumptions that would ruin the trades of actual legit but \"i don't give a damn about talking to people\" pilots out there.coming up with all these ridiculous ideas of captcha and crap... makes me laugh.what would i give for ccp to come over here and lecture you twits about what it takes to stop these people... my kingdom for knowledge as one would put it.yes.. it needs to be stopped... but i'm not about to fall in with a crowd of pitch forks and an angry mob who refused to think before they speak."
"you obviously haven't read the linked thread. the proof is:23/7 0.01 isk wars. i know your not a doctor, so i'll explain:normal people usually need more than one hour of sleep each day. failing to sleep more than one hour each day for two weeks will kill a person. but bot... when ccp does not act on such obvious evidence, i start to wonder. hence i'd like some tinfoil hats.and how many players have 30+ alts anyways? in fact, if any one person has 30+ alts, i think it's about time to limit each ip to one account logged on at any one time.and your right, real person > automated system, always. but where's the point in not using the resources that are freely available? what i read did not look like a bunch of people with pitchforks. more like a real person taking the effort to do some real research.and btw, just because you work in back-end server systems etc. yadda yadda doesn't mean that you know everything. in fact, it doesn't even mean that you are any good at it at all. every time i speak to some one in the it department in the company that i work for, i get this confirmed.this goes for all professions btw. everyday i run in to people that are supposed to have a clue, and yet they're more clueless than me, that does not do what they do on a daily basis.if you where really good at it, you'd be telling us the advantages of various options, not that \"nothing works\". what you're saying is like a carpenter saying that a pneumatic nail gun is the only way to get a nail in to timber (yes, i have heard a carpenter say this).edit: lame forums"
"i'm sorry... did you just tell me that your clueless as well?and just how do you plan on proving said theory? do you know what the back-end looks like? do you know what is actually logged on the servers?you have any sense of tracking tcp-ip packet datastreams in such a way to prove its a human being?oh i don't deny the strong obvious suspicions but every other stupid idea i've read has a humongous potential for ruining an afk miners day.i have 3 computers on my desk... i can only dedicated my attention to one of them at a time... i could be using my mac mini to be watching tv... my winblows tower to play eve.. my macbook pro to check the forums... or code... or play a 2nd client of eve...how the #### do you expect me to even give your stupid little rants any credability if you people have no bloody idea what your going on about?again... if you've been paying attention... i have an issue just as much as everyone else... but your stupid little mob here is going to make it a total waste of time.you will not be heard... you will not be given any room..why? because obviously ccp has been working on the problem...and for a hell of alot longer than you folk have been posting here and coming up with ideas.sorry to be fatalistic and to burst your bubble... but all your doing is complaining and thats all your going to end up with.. a complaint thread.until someone here can come up with a rational.... sensible idea that favors the legitimate ones... not going to support it.i didn't say i was an expert... i said i'm not stupid enough to assume that its that simple.. that's for sure as hell.sleep patteren's and time spent online is a poor example... people do all nighters you know.. hell i know friends that stay up for insanely long hours of the day.. if they really wanted too!youd be surprised just how far people will go to get into this game.have you been following them none stop for 23/7? what proof do you really have? for over a week? for over a month?pretty tall order if you ask me!yes... there's a problem... but your going about it wrong.do i have a better idea? how about letting the experts (ccp) handle it.. eh?"
"allusions to idiocy aside, ccp makes it clear that they do not want people having descussions over material such as this. hence the recent thread disappearing act. that only tells me that they know it exists, and possibly:a. don't want news of it to drive away players b. don't want loss of revenuec. already are doing everything they cani like to see talking about it nonetheless, it's a nice reminder that the general population is aware or at least familiar with bots and their sweeping effects on the real-time economy eve provides. the general mass disregard of forums rules is interesting anyways, granted it's important enough imo."
"exactlly, stop trolling. we don't care what do you work at neither your stupid reasons to say is perfectlly possible for a person to play 23/7 for weeks. if a person is playing 23/7 should be banned for failure at life anyway lol (yes, mob joking).if they have enough evidence why don't they act, is not like this crapp has been going for a week, market bots are wreckign havoc on some trade hubs on certain items since months.stop excuses, act now. either that or legalize bots for everyoen so we can officialy kill the damn game allready. allowing people to camp free with all sort of bots is only an encouragement for others to do."
"botting accounts pay ccp's bills too. directly or with isk, there's always a real-cash game time purchase at the end of the chain.fact.that being the case, any sane company would want full disclosure to convince people that the conflict of interests isn't getting in the way of fighting the botters. unless the bot accounts are a large enough chunk of their business that it doesn't pay to shut it down. that's no conspiracy, just business.now, there's the third possibility: ccp has their collective pr head up their exhaust nozzle again. they may figure out that keeping things hush-hush and fighting the secret war is the way to go. until a pr scandal blows. again."
"meep."
"agreed... i don't mind discussion... but posting crap like \"we should fire ccp\" and \"this must be dealt with\" type of posts is stating the obvious that is so painful that not even my pain receptors would even bother to register due to being burned out.yes... we know that already.so discuss the problem... dont just complain... your trolling in your own damn thread people.. sheesh.just be prepared to defend each and every little idea from the folks who multi-task and like to do things like cleaning there house while mining or something."
"yes please"
"i would also like auto grouping added to the agents tab/folder.they should be automatically broken up into corp sorts and division sorts.view 1 group by corp, divisionview 2 group by division, corpan extra couple of view would require joins into the system information tables.view 3&4group by security, (group 1, group 2)view 5&6group by #jumps, (group 3 & 4)i realize the data is heavily normalized but that is what stored procedure and views are for."
"i like. yes please!!!"
"im surprised at you yaay, why should we just accept that these awesome ships will simply suck till eve dies. i know ccp is capable of making something great out of them, maybe not what i proposed, but at least something."
"i agree with you completely. but why support an idea the devs have made clear won't happen. come up with one that might. the hp argument i support, but there's another thread that already covers that. i don't disagree with you, i've just accepted that the dev's would rather cater to the hello kitty players than the player's who kicked off the game for them."
"motherships dock? never."
"would be useful on extended ops to rep the hulls of honor tankers.honestly, i can't see anything wrong with the proposal. hull rep drones really appear to be missing."
"great idea and won't hurt game balance i guess."
"amenwhat about energy transfer drones? would that be taking it to far?"
"supported"
"qft.oh, sure, it would be *possible* for some 0.0 alliances to find scouts 24/7 but that role would be zero fun, hardly something to be called playing the game. not to mention raiding being ****ty as well: jump to a system, scan, get false positives from pos-parked ships, wander around aimlessly, jump to a next system, rinse & repeat. plus there would be much, much less stuff to shoot at as semi-carebears would hug empire stations."
"this being roughly 99.9% of alliance-based fleet combat (with the balance at pos's or shooting station services)....how exactly would it make it different for you?sorry...staring at hypnotic bubbles for hours on end as blueballs takes hold .remove strawman kthx."
"this just in! some people actually do live in 0.0 sov alliances and enjoy it and do other things than staring at bubbles. from what i heard, we want more people of that kind, not less."
"current system=rat/mine/plex/whatever with no regard to scanner or any intel beyond the ability to-once an unknown enters system: right click-show info (or look at naughty little neutral/negative standings box) and run to pos/station while bleating in alliance intel chat for blob to form on xyz gate.i will ask again....what is this issue with a simple local count? you can still run and hide as previous until you get an eyeball.or is that far too much effort?and one wonders what the various csm positions are here?"
"i think a better solution would be to standardize the docking radius of all stations and outposts. get rid of the (mostly) minmatar stations that shoot you out outside of docking range. change the amarr factory and caldari research outposts so undocking from them isn't suicidal.a good example of a \"balanced\" docking radius, i feel, is the minmatar refinery outpost. it's possible to bump someone off of one, but it's not incredibly easy. make all station models have a similar radius, and the problem is largely solved."
"this is an idea i can agree with. as it stands some stations are suicide, some have a 20km dock radius, and then we have the inbetweens. all stations should just be given the same docking radius. do not make is suicide to undock, give them all say 2-2.5km dock bubble from undock and let pilot skills play more of a role."
"words cannot express how terrible this suggestion is. honestly it's like 20% whine and 70% fail. what's ironic is there are already tactics & solutions available in game which completely counter people attempting to play station docking games. even if you're too inept to adapt and discover the solutions on your own, all you really need to do is pay attention and learn from players who are less terrible than you, and you'll be able to kill the people playing docking games rather than qq about it on the forums.the truth is, station games exist because the majority of you are too chicken s#@t to leave the safety of station undocks yourselves, leaving the rest of us no choice but to engage you on stations if we want to get any kind of fight out of you at all. then you have the audacity to call us \"station campers\", etc. oddly enough, my standard reply to this \"planet 1 @ 0km, whenever you manage to find your balls\" is never really accepted, but at least i have the option to kill them on station when they start playing docking games.to summarize my objections to this ridiculous thread:if you don't like station games, don't engage people on stations. pretty simple tbh."
"oh you mean its actually worse than this one?whine proposalhypocritical if you ask me bub...epic fail.oh and its relevant... particularly after your killed and podded at said station game."
"um yeah? obviously. hypocritical? hardly. not that i'd ever ask you *anything*you linked an awesome suggestion which unsurprisingly garnered no support. the suggestion in this thread is mind-numbingly terrible and again unsurprisingly has tons of support. i'm under the impression that you believe you have a point, and that you have somehow demonstrated it? lol, guess again. i'm also under the impression that you believe you/your thoughts/your posts are relevant to anyone, and that your opinions hold any value whatsoever? lol, guess again."
"this coming from someone who wants a \"i win\" button for avoiding getting podded and to insure that he can redock after agressing a target encouraging station games.yeah... makes perfect sense.my point is... your obviously in favor of making it painful for people to deal with cowards.for you to call it a whine fest... is nothing short of a contradiction of enormous proportions.i'm just pointing it out to everyone else who may decide to respond...^_^this whole idea is not a whine fest... its an attempt to fix a (dare i say) exploit of a mechanic.people can freely undock...agress... and redock without penalty.in high sec is a plague.... in low-sec/0.0 it becomes a bit of a different issue from what i've researched... that being larger ships can tank it and eventually make there way back with little to no trouble.by forcing said individual to be locked out of redock for... say 2 to 5 minutes... would ensure a number of things.if your going to attack... your going all in or nuthin.if your going to peek and run... at least your not getting a cheap shot in.for you to call that an act of cowardice or a stupid idea.. means your obviously trying to play hello kitty... under the guise of \"being brave\"this is not a perfect fix either... but its a rather good temp fix."
"thanks for confirming your complete lack of experience with anything even resembling pvp. it's been quite obvious to me from your posts that you're some clueless empire newb who's never left highsec, thanks for illustrating precisely how clueless you actually are. seriously, i appreciate you making a post confirming not only your woefully inadequate knowledge of all matters related to pvp/game mechanics/etc, but which also demonstrates your complete lack of understanding of the actual topic being discussed.i'm with you man, all those carriers in highsec playing their docking games really is a plague. good thing it's highsec, thus there's not really any real pvp happening, otherwise it would totally be an exploit. you're research into what goes on in big scary places like low sec/0.0, places you've never actually been, seems to have paid off. it totally is a different issue in places where pvp (beyond suicide ganking) is allowed to occur, than in places like highsec where you live, where pvp isn't really allowed."
"i love that every counter argument you make is: \"you obviously have no experience with low-sec/null-sec, so stfu noob\". as per someone who has lived in low-sec since starting this game, i can tell you the current mechanic of \"i can shoot and then dock\" is fairly lame. there should be more penalties for it. as it is, there are none. as for you rajere, your just a troll at this point and we should really quit feeding you. please go back to wherever you crawled out of and leave us alone. i also pity your corp members, you must be a pain to listen to. --isaac"
"carriers are not permitted in high sec.how long have you been playing this game again?"
"seems like a complicated fix. easy solution would be to fix aggression times to fit each ship class."
"perhaps... but a 5 to 6 minute timer would pretty much cover it.a frigate that undocks and agresses has no business doing so unless he plans to win or die.it's easier that way."
"the problem with a long timer is that when the opposition is gone, you have to wait forever to dock. the goal here isn't to make you stay in space for a long time, it's to make sure that if you engage, you are truly engaged and have no get-out-of-jail-free card.and if you do get away via warp -- an escape i have no problem with -- then you are able to dock in short order instead of waiting forever.and, to be honest, as a software engineer myself i think the proposed solution is much cleaner and simpler. it applies to all pilots in the same manner rather than having several base numbers to use depending on what ship type the pilot is in. it is self-tweaking in the sense that there's no need to tune the number to ensure the desired result (that pilots who aggress can't just dock again with no consequences). and there are few nasty side-effects (the example given above about 3rd party interceptor coming in after the battle and holding the target might be considered a nasty side-effect)."
"i like it!"
"while bouncing through lo sec a while back, i recalled a pirate weeping and wailing on local about being on the losing end of a scrap.i asked another about this in-duh-vidual, and they used a term that was rather new to me... he referred to him as an \"epic fail.\"i want to mention that i think ccp has developed a great idea on the medals system, but their lack of foresight has force them to fall under the category of \"epic fail!\"you cannot give them out to others outside of your corporation.example: if i want to reward someone for helping save my carcass (and retriever) in a lo sec pirate attack, i would like to have the opportunity to award a medal to that person.if another corporation has provided outstanding service and assistance, i would like to offer a medal to them.if i think one group of people are doing a great job (at doing whatever they do), i should be allowed to award them a medal.but currently within the parameters of the system, this is not possible.i hereby award a medal to the designers of the medal system a medal for \"epic fail\"! oh, i forgot.... i can't do that can i? they are not within my corp."
"i hereby support myself in this idea."
"this spamming? or do i laugh at him instead? is it real?is he serious?damnit... spent too much time in c&p reading.im so confused!"
"some people play to be a douche. some people play to amass wealth. some people play so they can post trash on the forums. but many people really do play for the trinkets and e-fame -- i support this."
"i don't wan't people throwing random medals at random people.that's worse than spam imho."
"give us skills to improve eccm please. there are about 4 or 5 books to improve ecm skills, not a single one to improve eccm"
"if this is implemented, the base effect of it would most likely be nerfed, and you'd have to train the skill to 5 to get the current effect."
"i thought of a whole lot of idea's to benfite the whole of eveit started with a person in genereal discussion saying that ccp should create a new 0.0 region and low-sec region but the 0.0 region would only be connected by wormholes which yeah i was thinking ok thats gunna be heard since they appear anywere and thow you out anywere. but the more i thought of it the more i thought of having a new ship class called gatekeeper, there would be a new cyno made to put on any ship from a cruiser>battleship maybe called wormhole generater, the gatekeeper would have a module similare to the titan module for transporting fleets but it will be diffrent.this module for gatekeeper would be named (can be changed if anyone has better idea for name) gatekey generater, the porpose of all this would be so the small ship finds a wormhole that leads to the new 0.0 region and speeding straight through (or if the wh is big enough bring a fleet and bust your way through) and when it reaches other side it activates the wormhole gernerater opening a exit from any wormhole causing a risk.the gatekeeper ship would then activate its gatekey generater causing a entrance to a new wormhole to open and connecting the exit to any wormhole to the one just made by the gatekeeper, for the gatekey generator i propose it having a mass/time limit for it to stay open so you can move a fleet through it all and allso moving any frieghters through (note: the way to get frieghters through would be to send support and logistic's in a fe minuits before then send rieghter's in this will need alot of players not to much though but alot of thought into how to do it) there is a big risk as if you don't setup your fleet and logistic properly the frieghter may be lost to sleepers.after the gatekeeper has entered the wh the entrance will close behind it but the exite will stay open for 20-30 miniuts longer depending on ccp's thoughts. for the new 0.0 regions to be worth whille id suggest it have good q lv4 missions rare minereals for mining very good moon's for moon mining and the rat's of 0.0 that can have sov taken. the new low-sec region would contain the wormholes to the new 0.0 region but other wormholes can enter the new 0.0 region but not as much as the new low-sec region. i allso propose to make more risk for missioners to move the lv4's to low-sec/0.0 but have some lv4's still in high-sec just higher quality than the lv3's so they earn just abit more but gives missioners the option, this will create the risk for the missioners in ecidin to move to low-sec for the lv4's they allready used or stay and use the ones in high-sec that arnt as good.allso to make rare minereals more needed the new ship gatekeeper and the 2 new modules would reqire a high amount of the rare minereals and not alot of common minereals therefore miners would have to go to low-sec/0.0 to make real cash.all these idea's may or may not bring the risk v reward eve need's but it is worth a try, and any idea's to improve any aspect of this idea would be taken and noted.edit: for pos's to be more usefull was thinking of adding a module to a pos that is like a jump bridg but if you enter the password in when in sleeper space it opens a wormhole up to the pos and allows you to jump from wh space to your pos"
"edit made at bottom off first post allso im supporting my own idea :d"
"...what?"
"i don't know if the idea is weird or only the writing, but i don't get it."
"this. no idea here. translation required."
"can u provide this proposal in form of a diagram ?"
"uh....yeah....sure...i....think?"
"i understand what you're trying to say, but it doesn't really make much sense. why would agents be operating with full sanction from the powers that be if they're locked off from everybody except with this new ship?don't get me wrong, it might be neat to have a ship that essentially colonizes fringe space (i've discussed this idea before too), but it shouldn't have all the advantages. it should be essentially untouched space that allows you to set up your own mini-empire and maybe eventually build a stargate to other systems.if this were to happen, though, i don't think it would be long before all such systems were in the hands of the three superpowers (norco, soco, or kenzoku). sorry, but i don't think it would benefit the game much at all."
"i require a diagram to understand said proposal. i also require graphs. and a hot cappuccino."
"god, i'm off work now. i don't wanna get back to charts and diagrams."
"i tryed drawing it but it didnt worki know ill creat a machine that links our minds as one and you will all become mini eliminators then i can send my army of drones in and assimilate all of eve"
"basiclythe only ways into the 0.0 is by from the new low sec wormholes that allways lead to this new 0.0 regions or the new ship which can deliver massive fleets into the regionbasicly thats wat i meanand they could \"hold\" the system's but it wouldnt be \"there's\" since it can not be claimed just like syndicate"
"i guess i'm late. this is not a huge concern for me but i know the hurdles it can bring to the fw player base, thus supported."
"provisionally supported. i think the idea is sound in principle but needs a bit of work to make it an acceptable solution to the cherry-picking wardec problemhowever, csm3 has already taken a look at this and voted it down. may i suggest that they look at this again with the question being voted on being more general rather than looking at one specific solution?"
"dumb idea.if op can figure it out, no point to type out.and no, mines are not an offensive weapon unless you plan on throwing them at people. mines always favor the defender.see battle of kursk for more more info on how a mine is used."
"and i forsee you being ******ed and lazy enough to be the one who pops first.i like how people don't even read post that explain exactly how things can be avoided and countered just so they can throw in flame bait in post. i also love how people with no experience running fleets are the one's stating how obviously this would be an advantage for a defender when its not. not one person has described a combat situation where the defender would gain a significant advantage for this. i can provide 5 where it would provide the attacker one.1) mine placements around enemy pos when the towers aren't scouted.2) mine placements in safe spots to defend against inbound scanners and attacker. if for no other reason than to slow them down.3) mines placed ahead of time for upcoming system battles where your fleet is aiming to dictated enemy fleet posistioning.4) mine placements on known warp ins for enemy gate camps (more frequent than you'd realize)5) mine placements at selected bait spots in system where enemies would try to chase you, but would instead end up in mine fields. would the defender gain and advantage too, yes absolutely. but that's where the effort of these things comes out. which side is better at both placing and detecting these things. based on their stats, these mines would struggle to devastate fleets, they're more of a bonus effect. hacs can pretty easily tank most of them, battleships might go 1/4 into their armor. what these do is provide a small field of advantage from knowing where they are. will ships die to them, god i hope so, otherwise, what'd be the point."
"likey, kinda. would support if you elaborated a bit more on how a adventurous solo explorer would survive them without tediously scanning out every new place to make sure nobody spammed it with mines for grief's sake. how long will they stay anchored/active? am i flagged for stealing them? would an unprepared frigate survive the first couple?"
"eve isn't exactly well suited for heavy maneuvering in combat and besides 1) i don't think we need more floating junk 2) defending has been made easy as it is. mandatory sweeping for mines would be about as much fun as removing local."
"hi,as a \"relatively\" new member to the eve-online society, i'd like to bring the level 1 missions to your attention!the mission-stories do repeat themselves again and again. even if changing the company, they only differ slightly. it is like fighting the same monster in the same dungeon on and on and on and on ...............a new player looses interest, long before beeing accepted for level 2 missions........ and not everyone likes to join corporations to gain access.it is absolutely necessary to create 3 or 4 parralel main story strings on which every new single player can \"jump on\" whenever he wants until he feels fit enough to take part in 0.0 \"stories\"!(the game \"freelancer\" had the same mailconcept. so after playing through the main story the game got booring.) best regardsr"
"1. 3 career tutorials2. circle agents3. flight certificate cosmos mission4. flight certificate cosmos follow-up mission5. 1 epic mission arcand voila you got your standing for level 2 missions, all through a series of unique and non-repetitive missions. put as many level 1 missions in between 1, 2 and 3 as you like before it gets repetitive. repeat 1 with different faction or in different region, if needed.and if your goal is 0.0: either go to a 0.0 corp directly, or join eve university. if you don't want to join any corp at all, 0.0 is not the space for you anyways. as a single vigilante, you are dead meat there. as part of something bigger, you can at least learn how to be cannon fodder right from the start."
"fyi, it's exactly the same for level 2, 3, and 4. there aren't all that many missions available, and any serious missioner will run through them all quite often. they have been working on adding new ones, but this is the sort of problem every game with human-scripted repeatable content comes across."
"the above tip is good for making the game interesting. if you manage your faction standings carefully, you may partake in the one epic mission arc -and likely the others when those arcs are created.testing out new skills makes for more interesting game play -as does testing out different occupations such as mining, mission running, working the market, manufacturing; running a corporation or joining a corp. factional warfare might be interesting. then there's pirating and other less appreciated activities. then there are worm holes, low sec, null sec, the chronicles, the council of stellar management, fan fest, and etc...are you for real? it doesn't appear that you have any reason for generating your post. perhaps you chose the wrong game.you could try war decing an npc station. that could be fun."
"i agree with the op. missions are seriously repetitive. it would be awesome if at the very least, ccp made all missions everywhere available everywhere.so for example, i could get a guristas extravaganza and then right after, get a sansha extravaganza. etc.same missions. just different factions. the same missions can be recycled a few times if they're tweaked. ie:in sansha extravaganza, you get an added task. rescue the damsel or something. little changes like these. recycle the missions. but add in uniqueness."
"i believe they are trying to revamp the mission system to make it an arc rather than a random draw. then the probability of getting the same missions would go down significantly.on a side note you can always shack up with a player corporation or just fly with some folks that run missions and are willing to help you boost your standing. i do it for folks all the time to get them past 1's and 2's.if it's that painful for you your welcome to just come hang out with me and the other nubs i shelter and tutor."
"signed + supported."
"i support #3 since rogue drones are pretty much hostile, their refinables make up for their lack of bounties though. maybe have them drop usable named drones (spider drones anyone?).as for ferrogel moons, i thought that required a reaction and wasn't mined directly."
"i kinda like that idea."
"i support number three. drones do not need bounties as their drops are worth a fine ammount. last i was in drones region a drone queen net about 2m isk and were really easy to kill."
"at first i was like \"d:\"bah dont want to be invaded!but then i was like \":d\"yay, invasion!"
"if a system reach the maximum sec lvl (1.0) then the agents should move from there to random lowsec or lower sec system. as soon the system lvl reach 0.5 concord move in that system.if a system have low player activity and, they do not ratting or doing missions then the system sec should go down.this system will be great even in 0.0. but the sec status should only move between 0.0 and -1.0.i always wanted to see some dynamic changes in empire so i support your idea."
"uhm.. might want to think on this 'can of worms' a bit more..your idea has some far reaching consequences i don't see anything about.for instance your compagny 'di-tron' has a pos in a 0.2 system happely moon mining something nice (disp comes to mind) .what will happen when this place gets safer and safer?for instance when it goes from 0.3 to 0.4? or 0.5?suddenly stop mining? put some charters in for safeties sake? if so, what empire would this become? what happens to your pos when the system reaches 0.8 and your not allowed to have a pos achored there?system security has for more effects besides agents.although i like the concept, that's all it is. just a concept. needs a lot more work.not supported."
"its been suggested before...and its been shot down before.not supported."
"not supported.ccp has better things to overhaul and or fix in this game. things that are actually broke. missions are not broke."
"so? you're being bridged to a covert cyno along with the rest of your gang, meaning your gang will all appear next to the cyno ship, which means you begin the engagement with everyone within ~5km of each other. actually you can easily setup a tengu to be completely cap stable running multiple large remote shield reps. even if you don't, ships which are bridged load with 100% of their previous capacitor amount (ie 100% cap). black ops load with 30% cap, assuming they had 100% to begin with. guess which ship runs out of cap first? and that's ignoring that atrocious mini-triage module idea of yours."
"i agree that the gank targets should not get any insurance payout."
"could some past and present csm members detail what their time commitment has been. how many hours a day, week, month, etc? are there occasions where you have had to spend more time than usual with your activities, such as the long weekend in iceland?"
"it averages to something like a couple of hours a week when there is no meeting to 6+ hours a week on weeks when there is a meeting. the a week+ for the iceland trip with some ugly travel for many of us (i think my flight out was something like 16 hours and some folks had it worse because of plane changes and what not).when you are in iceland you are working the whole day, don't expect any \"tourist\" time. these are the minumums. some folks put in way more time.issler"
"depends if you are a secretary or not, i was that on csm 1 and it means spending 4-6 hours extra each week updating topics, writing minutes, bundling issue documents for ccp, registering votes, and so on. compliments for omber and meissa that took the secretary position after me.it depends a bit on how much effort you want to put into it, like issler has said, don't expect any vacation in iceland. even though i went to fanfest last year i didn't use that as a vacation either as i was pulled onto the stage several times and was present at almost all roundtables so i knew what the players had to say about important issues, and spent almost all evenings discussing csm things with the players or ccp staff (except that one night when some nice fellas took me out to cultura, heh heh).total time i'm not sure of, i spent at least an hour or two reading the forums every day looking for issues and player opinions, sometimes i raised a lot of issues and sometimes i had none, had to write documents for each of those as well, say one hour per issue although that varied a lot. and answering all the mail, which takes at least 30 minutes per day on average.then there is the (bi)weekly meeting, reserve at least 3 hours for the meeting itself and an hour or two for the pre-meeting discussion with fellow csm about the issues you want to raise.i think you can do some decent csm work with a minium of 15 hours a week although i think it'd do the responsibility more justice if you'd spend at least 20 hours per week on it, however it depends on your own expertise, the issues you want to raise, and how far you want to take it though."
"the meeting regarding fw is such a fail i cant even describe it.with such approach ccp doesnt need to bother fixing anythink fw related and will spam new content as there would be no tommorow.its like if i call a support and ask them what they will do with my problem and they say they are aware of that problem but not will give any explanation for a year."
"seems any issue raised related to fw is gonna get nuked by this csm. ho hum."
"3/3 fw issues voted down, wth?! one sad puppy here."
"from the notes it seems like they don't understand the issues.considering the idea/discussion was originally presented by a member of an alliance that is wardeccing multiple fw corporations and has been for over a year, it seems prudent to present the issue to ccp.there is also the fact that while alliances are unable to join fw, some of the mutual defense advantages of an alliance should be confered to the faction aligned corporations. even if this is a replying wardec at a set cost it would go a long way in providing that mutual defense aspect to the factions that alliances provide.except it may not be as difficult as opponents are making it out to be and we aren't talking about fleets of 100s but rather fleets numbering in the 20-30s. reinforcing constellations that are close to having their bunkers vulnerable, reinforcing the oms-tama corridor, all these things are either predictable or known events, regular events.in general the idea that \"ccp is aware of it, so we shouldn't bring it up\" is a bad policy. ccp maybe aware of the issue, but ccp asks the player base to official raise issues through the csm. the csm rejecting issues based on ccp awareness means that the official line of communication between the players and ccp is not functioning."
"i was expecting more from ccp and the csm on the fw issues. it seems that they don't want to address it in the csm so they will use lame adminstrative and protocol tactics to avoid answering.sounds to me that ccp have nothing planned and don't want to come out and say that for fear of losing subs."
"fw abandoned yet again, big surprise there. the longer i play the more i see the worthless atributes of eve getting buffed and the fun being nerfed. edit -->let's say you bought a car, this car was broken from day one. you took it to the mechanic and get promised that he is 'working on it'. well he's been ****ing working on it for the past year with no updates.you wouldn't get ****ed? c'mon people, get off your carebear asses and keep fw alive for all of us in it."
"just a note. ccp doesn't see the issues presented to the csm directly. we assemble issues that passed (the ones we're voting on at the moment) and present them to ccp once every 2 months. ccp then gives an answer. as such bundling ccp and the csm in this criticism is not correct.as far as ccp's plans are concerned, we will probably learn more in the first csm/ccp meeting, until then we rely on the dev blogs and forum posts like you.now, replying as myself:as for the disapointment on fw issues, the \"fw wardec fee\" issue was a matter of opinion and not really an improvement on fw per se. the majority of the csm disagreed with the proposal. it was more about wardecs than about fw anyway.i can only recommend you read the other 2 proposals. the first one was \"give fw a higher priority\". different people have different priorities. fw, as far as *i* am concerned, does not have a higher priority than other topics. we tried to have the champion of the issue to rephrase his proposal as a discussion on the fw developments, which a few more would have approved. he didn't, the proposal thus didn't pass.the last fw was about the fw lag. i believe bug reports should be handled through the bug reports. personally, i think that raising bug reports through the csm is appropriate if:- ccp doesn't aknowledge the issue on the forum.- ccp doesn't display any veleity of fixing the problem.- the problem is of a large enough scale that it seriously hampers play.for the fw lag, i counted at least 8 dev answers on the subject, all of which state that they are already working on fixing the problem. i'll thus repeat here what others have said during the discussion. imagine the issued had passed, we see ccp and tell them \"ok, fw lag is an issue\".what, other than what they are already doing, do you want them to say/do? they said they don't know exactly where the issue is, they said they're already working on a fix. what more do you want?"
"/me jots down notes to prepare for next csm campaign season"
"well played csm you have failed yet again"
"i disagree entirely, it is a fw issue and is very much related to the general issue of \"improvements to factional warfare\".it is about what are the 4 factions (amarr empire, caldari state, gallente federation, and minmatar republic) that the corporations joining factional warfare become part of.when you look at a corporation that is part of factional warfare it is a member of one of these factions (the faction's corporation list isn't dynamic, perhaps it should be), just like a corporation in an alliance. however the corporations in an alliance recieve a protection from a direct war declaration - a corporation or alliance can not choose to target a particular corporation within an alliance.while i agree i don't think joining factional warfare should provide a corporation with freedom from outside wardecs, it should recieve some benefit from joining a larger group of corporations.at the same time it has been said that factions ~= alliances and thus alliances should not be allowed to join factions. this argument ignores that the benefits of joining an npc faction are much less than joining a pc alliance - 2 constant wardecs, opportunity to particpate in ctf skirmish warfare, gain faction standing faster. a pc alliance however provides individual corporate protection from wardecs, alliance level standings, ability to claim 0.0 space, party to any and all wardecs the alliance is part of, multitude of warfare styles dependent on alliance goals (except ctf wafare).this question of \"what are the factions?\" is a critical component of the fw mechanics and answering it answers questions that have been asked for more than a year like:- should alliances get to join fw?- if you want to wardec a fw corp, what responses are available to the defenders and their allies? can you even target the fw corp directly or do you have to target the faction as a whole? (i suspect star fraction would love to be able to just wardec whole factions.)- should factions be able to claim 0.0 sovreignty through their fw corps? (would cva & am disband and join the empire wholesale, to create a true imperial providence? what about em & u'k?)these go right into factional warfare improvements discussion that was turned down based on interpertation of the document provided by a single individual and not a general fw/rp community desire to provide feedback via the csm to ccp on a desire to see changes in what many feel is their preferred endgame."
"bolded the 2 important bits to you. yes, ccp has investigated the issue, they have asked for logserver files, the corporation pervs even organized an arranged blobfest fight between the factions that (i think) ccp observed...yet, several months later the issue persists. no updates on their progress have come in a *long* time.for an example as it stands now, our corp is nearly unable to use rr battleships in a gang of 10-20 (our maximum gang size) facing anything more then 20 opponents. we love to be outnumbered but if the number difference is too great (opponents have 3 times our numbers etc) we need rr and other super-effective tactics, currently they just don't work most of the time because of the lag.also, there is a \"session change\" bug associated with this lag that seems to be pretty unique to fw (though it was seen in one of pl's 0.0 videos but from what i've come to understand it's not common at all in 0.0)hmm. 0.0 can have a couple of reinforced nodes that support hundreds of players (or a thousand?) fighting. can fw have *one* such node to itself? all we would need is 5-15 systems that can support 50 players fighting after all... not asking much is it?to reiterate, we're talking about lag that's *horrible* with 30-40 people on grid and nobody else in system. is that acceptable?i sincerely wish that you get your act together soon, csm.(props to larkonis and *gasp* erik for this round)edit: added a bit"
"that's why i said it's a matter of opinion. it's about wardecs as it pertains to fw corps. how would you have reacted to a similar proposal about \"every industrialist corp should have free wardecs if one of them get decced\" or \"every corporation living in lowsec metropolis gets free wardec if one of them get decced\".it's about wardecs as it pertains to a certain group of corps who happen to otherwise have a similar objective. ccp already agreed to this. point is moot.it doesn't, it was specifically asked of the csm rep who raised the issue if it was a general fw improvement issue/discussion or something else, after that document had been discared from the proposal. he answered that it was about increasing the priority of fw development. while nearly everyone (myself included) in the csm believed fw needs some improvement, only one in nine believed it should be given precedence over other issues. that's the reason the proposal failed, not because everyone in the csm secretely hates fw and everyone who takes part in it.the problem with this first meeting, as far as fw is concerned, was that the 2 out of 3 fw proposals were poorly worded/presented/defended. the fw corp wardec issue was a very valid one, that i happened to disagree with, but a valid one nonetheless.don't worry too much, i'm certain there will be better fw proposals in the following meetings."
"do all industrialist corps share blue standings between each other and do they *all* have a wardec on 2 \"alliances\" in common? i thought not. seriously flawed analogies ftl."
"if every industrialist corporation joined the same alliance, all the corporations in the alliance would be party to the wardec if one of them was wardeced. if every corportion living in lowsec metropolis joined the same alliance, all the corporations in the alliance would be party to the wardec.every corporation joining the gallente federation faction/alliance is not party to the wardecs of the other corporations in the gallente federation faction/alliance.is goons or mm or aaa not a certain group of corps who happen to otherwise have similar objectives? how do wardecs pertain to them?there would also be a downside to being 'afforded' the protection of joining an npc faction/alliance, no pc corporation is an executor corporation and thus no pc corporation can declare war on the part of the faction/alliance. no offensive war declarations on the part of anyone joining npc factions/alliances.no, the point is not moot. if it is ccp's position that pc alliances can not join npc factions because npc factions are analogous to pc alliances; it should follow that the pc corporations that are part of the npc factions should be afforded similar opportunities to aid the corporations within their faction that those in an alliance are.you are arguing that in one case factions are not alliances and in the other that factions are alliances. choose one or the other."
"my impression of the voting against the fw issues seemed that some csm members didn't know or didn't care.also, my impression was that there was considerable agitation against the fw issues raised by some csm members. either they had their minds made up already, and were unwilling to listen to arguments, or they felt somehow insulted in the manner that the issues were raised.that is of course entirely possible. i'll be contacting csm members personally if i can and they are willing to try and understand this agitation and real reasons for voting so harsh against it. the reasons stated here seem to omit vital info."
"(sigh) i knew going into the elections for this csm that those of us languishing in the ccp ghetto of faction warfare would continue to be utterly neglected. between the empire carebears and 0.0 nullsuckers, this csm will certainly be dedicated to deriding any and all attention that might be brought to facwar and its utterly sorry state."
"check.check.they've been saying soon(tm) for the past 6 months now, just like they've been saying that alliances in fw would be introduced in empyrean age 1.2, no wait, somewhere in october, before qr, in qr, q1 2009, very soon(tm) after apocrypha...... it's typical for ccp to either ignore fw issues completely or give them such a low priority that they never get assigned a slot to be implemented as there is always something else bumping it from the to-do list.cloak exploit anyone?the csm going up there and saying that the players are unhappy with the way ccp has dealt with the problem so far and are seriously concerned, and asking ccp to make some commitments to this issue.given a higher priority =/= taking a precedence over other issues. since apoc, ccp has split its organisation into many different teams and can thus work on multiple aspects of the game in parallel. fw has been out for exactly one year now, yet nothing in the slightest has been done to make any kind of improvements whatsoever. instead ccp decided to work on crappy features which noone asked for: such as combat simulators, and tossed all that work into the garbage bin. i have a problem with a non-issue like combat simulators having a higher priority than fixing some outstanding fw issues.just one thing here, not criticizing, but i've voted in favor of issues i personally disagreed with, just because they are a valid concern from the playerbase which i deemed worthy of discussing with ccp. just like my documents often have multiple perspectives, which i do not necessarily agree with. to be specific, when i brought up the mission topic, it also included a part which said that there are players that believe all l4s should be moved out of highsec. i don't agree with that position, but i understand where that type of player comes from and thought it was worthy to discuss with ccp."
"threads like this promote the game, promote fun, and should not be locked for stupid reasons, thanks."
"part 2 locked for no apparent reason also, i'm rather angry."
"do not discuss moderation. thread locked."
"spoken as someone who truly knows absolutely nothing of 'roleplaying' and the alliances that engage in it.edit: and if 'alliances' were the equivalent of 'factions' then 'ushra'khan' would be able to declare war on the 'amarrian empire'. which would be another way of solving the basic problem here."
"not supporting. as will come time more experienced corporations will leave random miltias and more newbie corporations will join with increasing number of subscriptions any alliance in fw would roll over them with force they would be not able to counter. (huge number of carriers, t2 ships, higher skilled player with more dps and skills)."
"this!/signed!"
"/signed!"
"old effect > new one"
"/signed"
"supported fully."
"good idea"
"supporting this. lvv mentions his issue template in the old thread, but i dont recall bringing it up with ccp in csm1...o_o"
"*picks up the old bloody damaged stick**whack whack whack!*"
"signed"
"for those of you asking us to bring this up again - it was brought up in csm1 and ccp told us that implementing this would require a massive development effort (redesigning the whole visual pos system, not to mention how to deal with existing poses), while the gain is fairly small: its mostly only a visual change - not a functional one. you have to stay realistic and realise that time spent developing this means time is not spent developing other aspects of the game.while just as all of you i'd love to see this implemented there are just a lot more important things that need fixing that will actually improve the gameplay instead of making poses just a bit prettier. it is too bad ccp didnt think of this when they originally made the pos system.we did ask (in csm1) for ccp to keep this in mind if/when they would look into new anchorable structures (player housing maybe?). so i'm very sorry but i highly doubt this will be brought to ccp again, in this csm or future ones."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"ok, now we have delayed locals and so on, so everything is fine and dandy. now add the probes to overview, so i don't have to tick and untick every scan in order to see something in the mass of structures and crap like it./signed."
"supported. having to thrawl through a huge list of irrelevant pos modules or wreck listings to find probes on your scanner is not fun game design. adding probes to overview may encourage more people to venture into low sec.especially because ccp (according to the minutes) gave absolutely no justification for their descision. i'm actually a little bit dissapointed csm2 didnt press them further on that issue at the time."
"\"omgomg im being scanned dock dock!!\"more lazy warning systems for carebears (i actually do a lot of exploring myself, true story)would support this if in return we had local for losec/0.0 changed to delayed mode."
"signed"
"this is not about a \"lazy warning systems for carebears.\" this is about a broken ui. i live in a wormhole, and for all i care probes can be scannable or not. suits me fine either way. i spend as much time as the prober as i spend as the probee.the issue is that any object that is scannable should be filterable and available on the overview. ommiting scannable objects from overview filters is annoying, unrealistic, and a lazy way to \"balance\" the game.you don't balance a game by breaking the user interface. sorry."
"the shareholders need to retain control over locking, for use in businesses built around such things(e.g., titan bpc investments), where the ceo cannot be trusted with the corp assets. i would, however, favour a shareholder vote to set the corporation to \"role lock\" or \"vote lock\" - role lock being the proposed system, vote lock being the status quo. don't really care which is the default, but you have to allow the bpo investors to maintain security even against the ceo if the corp is set up appropriately. with that caveat noted, i support this."
"bumping and supporting."
"i think no-one is very happy with the current procedure. the idea of locking and sharing blueprints is good, but the devil popped up in the details, which led to this pain in the back as you describe it."
"/supported. very much so!"
"supported."
"they can, with a bonussed ship like the arazu. the falcon can do it all much better indeed, but if you take arazu vs falcon the falcon will get nerfed as ecm is chance based and probably occupied jamming that battleship. and how about breaking into missions? falcon fails at that. :)damps are not totally worthless now but they still need a boost! supported.(woops*, i accidently hit the report button instead of the quote button, so my apologies gidget glam if you get an angry gm shouting at you...)"
"simple solution.rather then boosting 101 ships.just nerf caldari and we'll be balanced :-)"
"disagree. recon ships need a role, but ccp is doing it wrong. it's a lot more work to properly rebalance everything that needs changing, but boosting rsds would be a step in the right direction."
"yes, just yes.rsd ships need a boost."
"another bump for this. ccp please stop ignoring this subject."
"i dont even use em for rsd, just for the scram bonus"
"such an important topic deserves to go up"
"supported.getting a 15 minute gcc just by repping up 2-3 damaged ships with a logistic(after a battle and after gcc) just because your mate is outlaw compleetly sucks.getting a gcc for repping someone that got gcc is fine, getting gcc and sec penalty just because the target is a outlaw isn<U+FFFD>t."
"agrees"
"don't ruin the maelstrom."
"i fully support the idea of allowing non-combat cap ships and above to swan around high sec space. a titan soaring through a starter system would be an interesting way to get trial accounts to upgrade, or for corp recruiting."
"i fully endorse this product or service.daddy must see son sometimes"
"this should not be done, if they allow one in high sec they should allow everyone with a titan to do the same."
"totally approved and supported!"
"...and were suddenly silenced."
"i think its reasonable to be able to inject a skill without being able to train it. i hate flying around with skill books i can't use. lets say as long as i have all the pre-req skills, but just not necessarily at the proper level (meaning the pre-reqs would show skills listed as yellow circles) allow us to inject it. justify it by saying that we capsuleers are just dumping the raw data into our memory implants or some crap. we won't be able to train it, but we would be able to carry most skills safely."
"can we get a csm update on this particular proposal?it's picked up some steam and i'd like to know if the csm is going to discuss it."
"please, make it happen."
"no. i want wis."
"i want wis, so please think again."
"there are a lot of issues surrounding faction warfare as it is currently implemented, as evidenced by the multitude of 'fix it!' threads in the 'warfare & tactics' forum and by the scattering of fw [issue] threads that have come up here. at the last csm meeting on june 7, two faction warfare issues failed to be passed by the csm. my impression from the minutes is that the csm members either thought the issues were worded in a non-constructive way, or that the answers to bug-fix questions would be so technical that they would be useless.this [issue] is a simple 'request for information'; pretty much exactly in line with the request for information issue that was passed by the csm on june 7 in regards to the industry expansion that vanished last year.there are some fw issues that ccp has already agreed to in principle (and even agreed to implement). there are some they have admitted are not quite right. there are other issues still that ccp has not spoken up about that the community has suggested solutions for.i want to know about the following items (but not only these!):implementation of alliances joining fwrewards for participating in fwgiving meaning to system occupancyspawning mechanic of fw complexescapturing mechanic of fw complexesfw missions: what can be done to fix them?lag in low sec as it/if it relates to fw(listed in no specific order)support this topic if you want to know too. we want at least one fw issue to reach the csm, and if it's not going to be a specific issue (as it looks like it won't be), then let's at least get a general update on development and maybe even a schedule on the deployment of fixes. remember, you don't have to support or even have a strong opinion about any of the above issues to want some information on fw development.thank you for your time,dohl khrensen**note** i'm a grunt in the minmatar militia and i don't claim to know anymore than anyone else about the issues on the faction battlefront, especially not more than those who have been campaigning in different ways for fw for a year now. feel free to be more specific about the above items in your support post, or add an item i may have missed.thanks to those who have laid the groundwork for this [issue] in other posts on these forums."
"i want to know."
"information would be nice. there was a dev post a week or so ago that basically said \"fw is not forgotten, but we ain't gonna say nuffink about it\". my understanding is that some of these issues may have been raised in the last meeting of csm2 (about a month ago) but i've had no success at all in finding out what went on at that meeting.my favorite fw-related issue is, of course, the change to allow corps to be in both alliances and the militia. ccp said that they could do it, said they'd work on it, said it would be out 'early 2009', and then said nothing more. that was last year, and not an announcement since.in any case, i support this issue: de-nerf ccp communication now!, both in regards to fw and in general, too!"
"enquiring minds want to know."
"signed"
"would certainly like to see a dev blog at the very least on the work being done, if any, to address fw issues."
"signedit: ./noob> didn't click support the 1st time around >.>"
"more information please"
"i suggest seperating it into two or more sections like 1) bug fixes and 2) development. that way the whole issue won't get shot down if the csm objects to one part of it. i don't think we'll get a responce to loud demands for info/action on general fw development, at least not at the moment. but i asking for specific action and info on bug fixes (like cloaky plexing, the map bug and the borked plex spawning mechanic)is something that could and should be moved forward."
"bunyip, you have a good point!on the other hand ccp will probably do a combination of both reductions, this based on the current, in game hull upgrades/conversionsexample: small dronebay hull conversion +10 drone bay, -10 cargo, and around 50 to 75 hull hp reductionthanks for the votes so far"
"supported."
"nice, sounds reasonably balanced."
"reasonable and balanced.supported."
"any movement on this very important issue by the csm?"
"lowscale pvp is unplayable in the fw regions at the moment."
"supported. to a large group of the playerbase (ie anyone who pvp's in lowsec, especially the fw areas) this problem is a daily occurance. i can guarantee that if i go into a fw fleet fight, i'll be able to lock and shoot the first primary and then module lag hits followed quickly by the \"entering space\" loop."
"/signedthis lag issue needs to be fixed. this is no fun anymore.fix it!"
"yes. this issue was brought forward at the last csm meeting on june 7. result:from what i can make out of the minutes, the issue failed basically because there was an unwillingness to reword the issue from 'fix the lag!' to a request for information on faction warfare (a request that passed through the csm with virtually no discussion in regards to the industrial expansion that was announced). so, as of right now the issue will not be brought up when the csm meets ccp next. not because of unwillingness of the csm, but the absence of a properly worded issue that has a chance of being a constructive topic for the csm/ccp showdown.my take on the situation, anyway."
"start flying in small gangs?"
"/signedthere should be no obstacles to playing eve."
"at the very least ccp should investigate the required effort to implement this......and then do it."
"i support this thread"
"i think docking/undocking is just weird in general and needs to be revamped.stations in general confuse me. i'm confused by the station screen because it never looks like a hanger, i never see the actual process of entering/leaving a station and the fact that humble factories can hold battleships in a space that in no way resembles a hanger, totally alone, makes no sense. not to mention the fact that ships magically appear and disappear when you switch.really, i don't mean to complain, but the environment we enter when docked looks like some demented version of the twilight zone/scene from a horror movie/acid trip.in short, i think station environment should actually be made to look like a space station hanger, and undocking/docking needs fixing."
"agreed"
"sense your speech make"
"i'll support this, though would prefer they all have some kick-out range, and we get windows. the whole 'all stations should be death traps' crowd, saying that if there's a gate camp, tough, is just ridiculous from a common sense standpoint. i seriously doubt there is some rp phenomena that would prevent those inside a station from knowing who is outside the station before deciding to undock."
"i support this idea on the basis that all outposts (and i suppose npc stations as well) should be equivalent in this aspect: either you exit in docking range on all of them, or you exit outside docking range on all of them.whether you'd prefer in or outside docking range is a different matter, but not directly relevant to this discussion."
"the following characters have been paid their isk for participation asof thursday 11.jun 09 12:31 (gmt+1):klyriared raiderwu jiaqiuluzz bightyearthe money of solo player has been given to a \"poor noob\", as requested by him."
"supported. i don't even care about hdr really, but it's ridiculous that they removed the aa option that used to be in the game. just give that back and i'd be happy. i choose not to fly minmatar ships anymore because without aa they look even worse than usual."
"i don't disagree on any point. however, has i not liked the idea i would not have voted for it regardless of the isk involved."
"ditto..."
"i 120% support this thread."
"the following characters have been paid their isk for participation asof friday 12.jun 09 00:07 (gmt+1):clansworthvaansakujah"
"anyone who's complaining about a lack of q20 l4 amarr combat agents, taru and zorrabed are that way ->i bailed on taru since it got busy. there were 40-odd people like a month ago, now there's regularly four times that.i now live someplace that hasn't ever exceeded 17 people in local. i pay a bit in agent quality, but i prefer peace and quiet.and yes, i fly caldari."
"i support this, they already have the same thing for trial accounts, how hard can it be to implement?"
"supporting"
"/signed"
"logos and paintings will probably lag a lot indeed unless it's all predesigned and lag is something i cannot support ever.changing the base color like we saw in homeworld 2 i do support! it would be nice then to have your gang cruising around in corp colors.[edit: but it still gets a low priority from me as it is still a gadget, nothing more. solving scanning bugs and rebalancing of ewar drones is more important imo]"
"yes it would, but it would make a lot of lag.supported, if ccp can pull it off technically."
"i like the idea, but their must be a quick and easy way to turn it off, or temporarily disable it, so when your trying to move a capfleet or titan around, it doesn't cost your cap pilots an arm and a leg."
"while we're at it, why not give the dominix a slot layout of 8/8/8 and double its powergrid?as stated- every ship has its advantages and shortcomings. there are only a handful of ships at this point that need rebalancing, and the maelstrom isn't one of them.please stop posting threads asking for ship buffs- learn to fly your ship well, and quit complaining."
"have to agree with that one.....any movement on this very important issue by the csm?"
"supported, not much point in putting in why as most of my reasons have already been covered by other posters above"
"it is really awful having so much potential in the factional warfare mechanics and ccp doing nothing.i suggest that rank should be rewarded based on kills and little on capturing complexes. also, kills should provide loyalty points to be used in the store (more on that later). rank points should be rewarded by the type of ship killed and be distributed among participants. if other mmos can manage to do this for experience points so can ccp, you would think.the amount of points should be according to ship type only, with more expensive ships (by market price) yielding more points. a simple weekly/monthly market survey of the 5-10 biggest trade hubs should quickly be able to establish the order. modules and cargo should have no point value, as they all have a chance to drop and by that giving reward that way. of course the system has to be tuned so that it will be highly unprofitable to simply blow up ships on an alt to gain points, but of course it should be a possibility for the crazy minded.secondly, the lp stores of the militias should contain unique items of high quality. selling these could be one way of funding your fw loses. another option would be to have relatively cheap ships available in the lp shops that could only be undocked if you are a member of the militia and maybe of a certain rank. the ships doesn't need to have special abilities just other skins will be enough.doing the fw missions should grant you a good deal of lp points due to their high risk nature.now, to make system occupancy matter i have no suggestions (yet)."
"you don't get it, do you?bots run certain patterns, auto-update their orders every 5 min 24/7, have been doing for months. there are related alts doing some suspicious trading, controlling certain markets, this has been going for months. what more evidence do you need?how long have i (and everyone who is legal) to withstand this situation which is hampering my gaming experience? what about fairness? should i just do the same crapp to compete?i'm not even sure you should be able to afk-mine, it's a ******ed mechanics, any game activity should be well... active. but that's an other entire issue.and, after all, what's the problem of asking ccp mroe info about this! soemntimes you say no, just for the sake of it, amirite?"
"while your at it lets bann random names too... like your own.lets ban the people that sit in stations for hours on end.lets ban the ones that just do ________________________ .getting the point yet?nothing is as simple as it seems... its not as black and white as you make.where does the line get put at? who gets to judge that?all your doing is screaming.... so keep screaming... not a damn thing will come of it."
"about market bots : just increase the opertaion delay time for market orders modification to like 4hours or more that would greatly reduce bots effects on the market."
"erm...how is ricdic in any way related to a discussion of botting? i'm pretty sure that's one thing the fellow has never once been accused of. yes, because why should you actually have to play the game? that's just crazy talk!"
"so changing market orders every 5 mins is a fun to do and ppl play this game for this?currently bots can undercut you every 5 mins or less if it uses more than one order, and this is only 1 botting char if there are 5 botting chars then this time would be less than 1 mins, until one of them outbids you.then you have to modify your order every 5 mins to be able to sell your stuff --> realy boring task and not fun at all. if this time is increased to 4 hours or more ,your offer would be the lowest for much longer period and would greatly decrease the modifies needed.you are a moron or you are currently a bot user yourself."
"i support this thread. but from what ive investigated the majority of isk framers/bots/macros are from china? well if the eve communtiy everytime u saw a isk farmer post in local everyone floods it with \"free tibet now\" doing this will in effect bring the chinese goverment involved who'll shut them down and problem solved."
"and your a jackass for assuming that the markets are never like that... case and point... the stock exchange for this damned planet."
"this a game not a stock market simulator , go and take your realism ideas to this topic reality of weapons.also if you like the current market grind go and play a free korean mmo, ive heard they all about grind."
"ah so that's where your getting your so called delusional state mindset from? hope your enjoying the game over there!"
"i lol'd"
"what if we removed local from 0.0, and made a planetary pos module that acts as an alliance subspace communication router for that alliance or standings based? or anyone in the system? systems not having it would be like wormhole systems are right now."
"amen and hallelujah brother"
"i like the ideas, and your solutions seem alright as far as i can tell. i just don't agree with motherships docking. and since they can't dock, and they have their own fitting service, it seems reasonable that they should be allowed to change their own mods. just disallow changing fitting in combat. maybe disable mod changing until the aggression timer expires?hmm.. i also really like the idea of ships being able to dock and travel inside them. they are called \"motherships\" after all....i don't really like the idea of them being mobile pos's and projecting large fields.i like the idea of them getting a large drone range boost.personally, i don't see the mothership as a front line pvp ship. maybe it could be given some sort of unique role in wormhole exploration? the description for the aeon (amarr ms) seems to support it. whenever they discover a wormhole, allow two motherships working at either end to deploy some sort of ms-only anchorable object which would start \"jumpgate construction\" or \"wormhole stabilization\" or something. if the corp holds it long enough (defends it from waves of sleepers) they \"build\" a jumpgate to that system and get initial sovereignty and can deploy stations etc. etc. or if they are engaged in the faction war it comes under their factions control and they get isk, lp faction standings increase and so on.i have no idea how ccp would work that, as it would require constantly expanding the universe to allow it to continue, and there would have to be a lot of them to make it worth one's while. maybe the ms-created jumpgates could require a large quantity of fuel to maintain, or be destroyable, allowing systems to be lost and subsequently rediscovered. and it would give a way for players to be involved in expanding the expansion of the permanent new eden universe, as ccp could allow new systems in expansions to be discovered, have jumpgates built and fought over before becoming part of the persistent universe with permanent jumpgates. as opposed to simply adding a dozen systems overnight with a patch, complete with jumpgates, pirates, stations, rats, names and astronomical data. and it would give you the bragging rights to say that you and your corp/alliance discovered this system originally and ccp let you name the planets and so forth...its just a rough idea, something i brainstormed and splurged out here. i realize that its riddled with problems, would be a nightmare to implement. but it sounds fun and would give ms a niche that'd be worthwhile and unique."
"it's all well and good theory crafting this stuff but it's very hard for ccp to implement and it doesn't do too much.make remote reps better for motherships than they are on carriers, give motherships the same non-focused interdiction immunity that t3 ships can get, and make triage better on motherships than carriers.it's simple enough for ccp to implement, makes logical sense in their role as a \"super carrier\", and isn't too ridiculously strong."
"good ideas but pointless without a jump range boost and an hp boost"
"jump range boost i can agree with, but i'd rather see motherships recieve double or even triple the reps from remote reps than an hp boost. the aeon can already get 10mil ish ehp."
"it would, since drones dont run out of cap it seems. so energy transfer drones would actually be 'energy out of thin air' drones and thats a bit much..."
"signed"
"many people complain about missiles, ever since quantum rise, i will be the first to admit, they were overpowered. but this is not the point. there is a thread for that a few pages back. this problem has been in for a long time now and i regret that it was not fixed with the rest of the missile changes. the simple issue is sniping. missiles can reach incredible ranges, but the speed at which they get to their targets renders them ineffective in all but a pos or capital bash. oftentimes the primary target has long since died by the time your small glowing orbs of death reach their shattered wreckage. the sniping raven is quite simply almost a running gag. every other main weapon system (projectile, laser, hybrid) is viable at long range.i propose a simple change, just one.increase missile velocity by a factor between 2-6 times their current speed and decrease flight time by the opposite amount."
"sadly long range missile ships were designed to be better at long range than their gunnery counterparts,but because of missile delay they are pretty much unusable atm.for some stupid reason ccp doesnt want to increase missile speeds,it would break their physics engine or what they called it. so you should think out other boosts to make missiles viable at long range.i thought of give missiles a dmg boost in function of time spent in flight. like +5%/seconds , so still many missiles wouldnt reach the target in time but which do would do awesome dmg to even the average dps out."
"yup, missiles are pretty failsauce. imo, missiles have been failsauce for a long time. that's why i never bothered training for them. they're only good on one ship: the sbthat's a lot of sp for one ship./supportposting in a thread about missiles"
"missiles should not be equal to all the remaining weapon systems. eve is already too unified and homogenous. missiles select damage types which is already a boost. i like the idea of them hitting very, very hard but the flight time shouldn't be decreased substantially. if someone's stupid enough to miss incoming missiles, he gets his face melted. thankfully caldari have railboats and khanid can use beams. missiles are a specialized system. it needs a lot of tweaking but not towards making it yet another boring gun type."
"not supporting this, due to the sheer difference in how the various weapon systems work.there is no module (only rigs) to extend missile range. this basically means when fitting a missile ship you dont need to commit module slots to extending your range. missiles also dont vary in damage depending on their range. there is no falloff range on missiles.while you need a very specific ship setup to reach 150-180km range on a gun based battleship (sacrificing other aspects such as tank or dps), anyone with caldari battleship 4 and a raven can easily reach that far with cruise missiles. your proposed change would seriously overpower missiles: giving them nearly the same long range utility as guns without the tracking, fitting and dps commitments that usually accompany sniper setups."
"dispite being a missile *****, i do have to say not signed.caldari already have very good sniping options with railguns, the rokh easily reaching max targeting range + being double dd proof. and while it sucks that missiles are beyond sub optimal for sniping (unless for pos shooting), it's a trade off for close range effectiveness."
"there is no module (only rigs) to extend missile range. this basically means when fitting a missile ship you cant use module slots to extending your range.fixed it for u vs turrets which can use both modules and rigs,you dont have to use a module at all if you want to it is an option.even if missiles fly as far as guns shot there is no point for that as due to delay dmg missiles won't reach the target in time makeing 0 dps that means you fail in your raven as a dmg dealer in fleets, there is a reason why most 0.0 alliances banned cruise missile from their fleets. also missile rigs cost a lot more around 15m isk each vs 7m for locus rigs and sub 1m for tracking mods.your very specific sniper bs fits will easily do a dd tank + acceptable dmg at 180km for the same cost as a missile rigged raven.and those snipe bs would do as much or more dps sub 50-60km than a cruise raven. i see no sacrifice at all.yeah caldari bs lvl4 ppl could reach sniper range easily and doing 0 dmg ,that is a big help for your fleet, no it is not. proposed change would make long range missiles viable at long range, where they were intended to be used. whats the point of their great range if they cant use it out.ive showed you that gunships dont have less dps or more fitting issues as the cruise raven. and about tracking , most of the time sniper bs can hit and kill cruiser easily especially at 150km+ i see no tracking issue there especially if we compare it to the 50% dmg reduction cruise missiles have against moving cruiser targets."
"so because rokh is useable in snipe fleets raven shouldnt be? nice reasoning. for close range effectiveness even sniper bs are good at close range more or less especiall against bc/bs class ships, ships which you wouldnt hit would be hard for cruise missiles to do acceptable dmg anyway.btw do you fly ravens in snipe fleets ? i quess no the point of the boost is to make ravens viable there."
"scorp and rokh are viable in fleet fights.hyperion and domi are substandard. only the mega isgood in fleet fights. buff gallente???"
"instead of changing the missile flight-time for speed why not ask for a mod which you could fit to achieve this effect?"
"even if raven's cruise went at 20 km/s, they'd still take 8 seconds to hit a bs 160 km away. that's still too long in when snipers are one-volleying targets. i don't think that this issue is fixable, basically."
"the issue is often brought up that missiles don't reach their target before it is dead already.that is not an issue with missiles. it is an issue with fleet command, or rather the lack of good fleet command, fire discipline and player skill. good fleet command and fleet training needs to minimize overkill, which is damage potential wasted on ships that are already dead. this happens as well to gunnery ships, but they can react faster to such changes and minimize the lost potential damage output. missile ships need to work entirely different, especially when they work in concert with gunnery ships. the basic concept is to spread out the damage output of the missile ships and use the gunner ships in smaller groups to concentrate fire on already softened targets. this will not kill as many ships in the first wave as a pure gunnery fleet, but it will kill just as many after a few salvos. the reduced alpha strike power is easily offset with a higher rate of secondary kills.all fire control tactics that work against medium groups of enemies also work on large groups, unless lag takes the better of us. that is a tertiary issue, though. lag needs to be addressed on as a problem of it's own."
"add another tech ii missile type, long range fast flight and moderate dps only viable for long range setups"
"not supported.even if you increase the speed at which they fly... nothing is to stop the target from warping away before impact.you won't be happy with... or without the change."
"the real issue is range - at the ranges that space battles take place at, missiles are at a disadvantage because that's just the physics. lasers hit fastest at any given range, followed by projectiles and hybrids, followed by missiles and rockets.at \"short\" ranges (anything under about 10km) the differences are academic - the ammo typically hits before the weapon can recycle anyway, so it doesn't really matter, tbh.at moderate and long ranges, the differences start to become more pronounced. even at about 30km, the missile launchers on my hurricane cycle faster than the flight time to the target - that's just the way missiles are. imo, they really aren't intended for sniping, they're intended to deliver a lot of damage on the target.the fact that the target was killed before your missiles hit reflects a lack of communication in target precedence between your missile and gunnery boats, tbh."
"should be the other way around, the longer it flies, the less fuel it has left at the end of its run to add to its damage."
"this is a good idea, in my opinion. guns largely require t2 ammo to be effective as snipers (rokh being an exception, though with laughable t1 damage), so giving cruise missiles a t2 'sniper' missile seems not unreasonable.double speed, half duration, reduced damage would make for a good start. possibly also a minimum flight time (the missile takes time to arm)? replace the precision missiles with this, since they are largely useless."
"simple fix there, really; you've got two problems that can solve each other. first, missile targets die before the missiles arrive. second, missiles do not need range increasing modules to be long range weapons. i propose a fire-control uplink module. each module can control a single salvo's worth of missiles and allows you to retarget them in flight. now you've got similar module needs for long-range missile ships as with other snipers, and missiles can be retargetted to the new primary at long range if you have enough fire-control capacity to manage the missiles you have in the air. of course the course change might give you problems with flight time and range, but that's just another thing to manage; frankly missile combat is dull as it is and that may add enough of a complexity to it to be entertaining."
"missiles ineffective in fleet engagements. drones ineffective in fleet engagements. ecm now ineffective in fleet engagements (though to be fair, all other ewar was already there). artillery marginal in fleet engagements. basically we have lasers and rail guns that work well in modern engagements. to the guy who complained that about lack of diversity, i'm having a hard time figuring out how adding a viable weapon type does that.you could go another way and just ask for a module that allows you to re-target ships in flight. i.e. your target dies or warps off, and whatever you have this module activated on becomes your missiles' next target."
"* sry if this is my 3rd post in 4 minutes... ggl chrome seems to be bugged with posting here...funny to see one side supporting the op and even changing it to please the ones not supporting it, while the other side keeps repeating the same reason why they won't support it over and over.think some more about it: when would you be safer in your cnr? if the pirate jumps into local and sees only one person listed (you), or when the pirate jumps into local and again it seems empty...? what you say, that scanning a system repeatedly is exhausting, well this will be extremely true for the pirates as they are the ones who are actively searching without the help of local, while the cnr pilot only has to be smart (place can near mission gate, sit 50 away from it, and *ping* occasionally).this subject still has my full support. even better: remove local in all systems including high sec. people who want to talk will still talk, plus it reduces the jita and blob lag a lot."
"i'm sure this has been rebutted repeatedly, but how about in low sec local simply becomes a member count, unless you actually say something in that channel in which case you're revealed in that system for x minutes. have cloaking hide you from appearing in local in high and low sec, unless you chat."
"want a compromise?sure, how about this following the iff analogy.local always show numbers.people with the iff on show up in local as it is now.people with it turned off isn't visable apart from the total count in system."
"thats vastly different from having dedicated accounts in cov ops on a number of gates 23/7."
"hell yea lets get rid of local completely, i'm sick of having 11 chat windows open and i think it should be reduced to only two (corp & alliance) chat windows and no fleet chat all in corp or alliance depending who's in the fleet. oh wait what a stupid idea very much like yours"
"you already removed most of them so cull the rest already please why do some remain??"
"supported"
"alright i gotta ask... why the hell would you want such a thing to take place?and yes i dare ask a goon this question."
"hell no, i don't want all that 1/10 and 2/10 crap in exploration, leave it to noobs and farmers"
"because they never planned that?...."
"because he's anticipating that his alliance will be mining veld in jita in about 2.5years (just ask molle)i agree actually. it would make it harder to farm plexes, and to be honest, probing is so easy these days that even a noob can manage./supporting a goon suggestion in a goon threadedit: added molle"
"troll sense tingling?but i disagree, static plexes are good. i mean without them the cosmos agents would cease to exist and so would the ancient tech like telocan and yang jun."
"no, they gave somthing to fight over in 0.0.if anything they should bring them back"
"clarification: is this strictly 0.0 or high sec included as well?static complexes are needed for high sec.... new players need to get a sense of whats invovled.removing them would be bad.now in 0.0 i dont have a problem with.so which is it?"
"remove all static complexes.new players don't need them to get a sense of what's involved; they're not even a semi-reasonable representation of \"what's involved\" because they're always empty. as a noob, i warped to countless beacons only to find them empty and wonder what they were, why i could warp to them, and why i'd just wasted my time."
"whereas i thought they provided some interesting background to the universe."
"or bookmark folders. or non-graphics related client settings. or chat channels."
"please bring back a version of static complexes. they provided a reason to fight over 0.0, ccp seems to want to make 0.0 worthless and gives no reason to fight over.i propose ccp being back static complexes. only with these:they can spawn anywhere in 0.0. they last 24 hours and respawn 2/3 times a day. the beacon can be seen in local/overview for everone to see.this is just an idea but i thought static plexes gave some very fun fights in 0.0 and with the above it will stop constant chinease isk farming/give alliances some isk and somthing to do as a group.any ideas?"
"high sec? yeslow sec? maybe0.0? noyou guys have all sorts of advantages as it is out there... which is why i'm planning to relocate there soon.not supported."
"if you're allowed to reject the medals that random people give you, then maybe. still, pretty minor stuff."
"speaking of spam ... you don't like it and have already made that clear. is there a reason to post again with the same message?medals cost isk, and anyone who would randomly throw medals around has a better use for their isk (like outfitting noob ships with t2 gear).anyone can refuse a medal so what does it matter?"
"this"
"of course you're confused. it's apparent in your post. you smack talk about his comment and all you can respond with is some drivel?medals are a great idea, and they should not be limited only to corp members.you're \"frightened\" that this will wind up as some spam fest, but you neglect to remember that a.) they cost iskies and b.) only upper echelon members can offer them out. besides, the recipient don't need to accept it, or they can delete the medal.jonas, i think you've hit it right on the head!"
"i agree.dd snivelings are a minor issue."
"alt posting also makes you look like a total #########."
"i support this."
"voting for more e-honour!also, posting in a dd phail troll thread..."
"do you really want random ppl to put medals like \"fumbest duck in the universe\", \"total noob\" or \"buy isk at ...\" on you?"
"1. must be possible to reject or accept medals2. the price of medals must be increased to prevent spammingon those conditions i would support the idea."
"yes, yes and yes! sounds like fun to me! moar station spinning activity, woot!"
"yes.also, supporting a wildly inappropriate suggestion!"
"supported."
"added my 2 issues for this meeting :)"
"it seems perfectly reasonable to me that committing suicide should void your insurance contract."
"ccp doesn't seem to think so. it was one of the proposed solutions before the last suicide gank nerf. ccp instead chose to increase response time and lethality."
"so i think the csm do realize that fw is not complete and needs some attention. however this csm clearly understands that this could be said about a lot of eve. a number of things have been introduced that are not \"complete\" in terms of the intended experience. a lot of those predate fw. so i think the csm is saying with their votes \"fw, we love you but get in line behind all the stuff that needs that ccp luvin before you\".sorry to everyone that doesn't realize there is more to eve than fw,issler (who clearly will never get a fw vote if she ever runs again)"
"csm failed.obviosully you did not get that simple fact csm are not supposed bring up only those questions that is important for csm members. csm is not your private high priority whining chamber.reason why fw was ignored on csm is obvious - none of you are interested in it (except maybe ankh). classical case of dirty scambags who gets power only to use it for getting all goodies to themselves. all 3 fw problems that was mentioned are very serious and must be brought up now. you are pathetic.p.s. lets hope on next voting fw people will be more active and will remeber you and what you did (\"did not\" to be exact)."
"to everyone who is unhappy with the fw issue voting results - sorry but eve is more than just fw. sure its not perfect, but other areas have just as many - if not more - problems. so ya, we didnt agree with a blanket 'higher development priority' for fw. dont accuse us of only looking out for ourselves while demanding a higher development commitment to the small part of eve you happen to play; you're doing exactly what you're accusing us of.and while i personally wouldnt have minded asking ccp about the fw lag, it is likely that there wouldnt be much news on it. reserve your judgement of this csm for the end of the csm term."
"looks like most csm members have no clue about fw. also hull repper drones ??? why is this even an issue on the list ? of all things in eve that are broken / need to be looked at i'd say that's not even on the list ... aren't ther more important issues to discuss ? makes me wonder why i even bothered voting."
"with all due respect, your arguments makes little sense.firstly you'll find that most fw supporters don't claim that fw is the only thing that matters in eve. your seemingly accusing people that they think only fw needs attention. you'll find that if you talk to them this is not the case. in the same way i can start argueing that the csm only considers 0.0 to be eve, etc. as csm you're supposed to be the communication bridge between us, the players, and ccp. let's not dismiss valid arguments because you assume people think that's the only thing that matters.all this however doesn't take away the simple fact that the entire mechanics behind fw are broken, and they have been for over a year now. no rewards, no lag fixing (and yes, the difference between 0.0 and fw is a bit strange considering how small fw battles are), bad plex spawn mechanics, risk of permanent standing destruction without compensation and still bugged with exploits such as cloaked plexing. fw has now come to full stop on the gallente-caldari front due to the capturing of all systems. how bad must it be before the csm realises fw needs a bit of attention?for a main feature from an expansion, that was presented as the best thing since sliced bread, you can't claim fw doesn't need to be looked at soon. it was even designed in an attempt to get people to pvp and fill low-sec. regardless of whether it succeeded in doing that or not, it's a feature that was supposed to have an impact on the backstory and on players, forcing them to get into fights.will the csm wait until fw is completely dead and then claim things are fixed, or will we finally get some attention to the matter, even if it's just a recent status update or a dev blog? active fw players are disappearing left and right, and those who remain apparently can't scream hard enough in frustration for the csm to realise how bad things are."
"14.076 players/ characters is \"a small part of eve\"? (number is current from the ic fw stats page)the lag affects everyone of them, and it's not \"normal\" eve lag."
"top 10 alliances/factions by number of members (11 june):1. goonswarm - 5,735 members ("
"the cms truly do fail. i am currently very upset while posting this so ignore the tone and look at what i'm actually saying.all the comments for fw have been very valid and well backed up.lag is not a serious enough ****ing issue yet? seriously!!!if you couldn't take out a 25 hac gang in 0.0 and get into a fight without experiencing game breaking lag how would you feel?there are more than enough players in faction warfare and we all deserve a bit a of a voice. we have been complaining on the forums and to my knowledge have not received any sort of response for the last year other than \"we're working on it\"however they have managed to make things worse by introducing cloaked plexing! how in the name of god did they find time to make fw worse?understand this. fw is not a bit off and doesn't need a little work. it is seriously broken!!! it affects everyone in low sec! (that means fw guys, pirates and every other tom, **** and harry that decides to fly through there)caldari captured all the gal systems. now what? what happened to everything else we were promised more that one year back. don't we deserve an update and an honest response?is addressing these issues too much to expect from the high and mighty csm?"
"david caldera: with exclamations of \"all 3 fw problems that was mentioned are very serious and must be brought up now\" (and similarly demanding language was used in the issues themselves) it does look to me like fw pilots feel their part of the game deserves more attention that others. you might not feel that way, and maybe even the poster didnt intend it that way (in which case he/she should rephrase their request), but to me it reads like someone insisting that their demands are heard now.the csm isnt denying that fw needs attention (and in fact the lag issue only narrowly failed - perhaps partially due to a lacking explanation of the specific lag: note that my question during the issue discussion remained unanswered). we just dont agree it deserves a higher development priority at this point. ccp is working on it, just as they are working on other parts of the game. i actually talked to erik after one of his issues was denied - i believe its a lot more likely to pass a specific issue than to simply ask for a higher priority for all of the fw development. in much the same vein i wouldnt support someone asking for a higher priority of 0.0 gameplay development.sure fw has its defects, but i have yet to meet a 0.0 pilot who feels the current sovereignity system is a good one (a system which has been in place for years, btw), and i'm hearing a lot of industry (esp. mining) pilots lament that their gameplay is in serious need of improvements. so why would fw deserve a higher development priority than 0.0, or industry, or any of the other many gameplay aspects?morphisat: csm members can choose which topics to put on the agenda. if vuk wants to discuss hull repping drones he can do so. if it makes you feel any better, the issue only took 2 minutes or so to discuss, so very little time was 'wasted'. and if you worry about ccp spending precious development time on it, these issues have not yet been prioritized by the csm, and ccp will adjust the priorities themselves as well.raimo: 15k players seems like a lot (5% of the player base), but its eclipsed by the amount of players involved in 0.0, which in turn is eclipsed by the huge amount of players who stick to high sec. hence why i said 'small part of eve'.furthermore i'd like to remind everyone there are still plenty of meetings ahead. so unbunch your panties and take a deep breath, fw issues still have plenty of oppurtunity to be brought up :)"
"ah that's good to know. thought it was weird that you discussed only a hand full of issues and some of these seemed to be rather trivial.about industrial players: don't forget the ore respawn situation :)."
"here is the thing; plenty of fw players feel that fw has an expiration date. as small/minor issues and problems (unintentional \"features\" like cloaked plexing) appear in fw the fw player base shrinks. as the numbers decrease (below 5%) the amount of thought ccp will put into will only decrease more and the issues will not be resolved.there are plenty of features that are basically broken or incomplete and little played. i would hate to be the devs who worked hard on cosmos only to have them be some minor part of the game an largely ignored by the player base. i would hate to be a dev who worked on fw only to have it slid off the menu because wis is a higher priority.0.0 pos spamming fiefdoms are basically required for people to fly 'high-end' ships be they t2 or capitals. there is isk to be made (reward) and in some cases fun to be had. fw has no output at the moment, only inputs.perhaps we (fw advocates) need to push things in smaller components so that they can easily be chewed on (again fx cloaked plexing) by the csm and ccp. perhaps focus on a slew of more immediate fixes that should be included in future patches versus included in a future expansion. fw 1.123 vs fw 2.0.issues to address:1. cloaked plexing2. plex spawn rate3. low security, low numbers in system (<50) lagothers? be ready to put these on the assembly and give the csm who takes them on all the possible info they could want."
"thank you deirdra and meissa in trying to cool off the emotions from fw players in this thread, which are quite understandable.first off, while everyone expected fw issues to be on the csm agenda early, it might not have been my best choice to do so, before getting to know the other csm's way of thinking and how the issues need to be shaped to have a chance of finding consensus.this term still is long, as we have only started off. two points from my csm colleagues are worth noting, i suggest, for the continued discussion: they do not want fw above other unfinished parts of the game, and the number of capsuleers engaged is not big enough. both are absolutely valid positions. and it is never a question of how to change someone else's position.the question to ask : how to amend the fw position so that it fits into the other's picture ?prioritywe should drop this aspect. it is absolutely unimportant, which priority csm wants ccp to attribute to any given issue. ccp will adjust the priorities to their idea anyway. thus, if the suggested improvement is concise, compelling, marketable, then chances are good we will find fw higher up the priority scale without expliciting the position.relevancemore pilots need to be involved ? well, let's not debate current figures nor wait for fw to gain followers. fw importance is not measured by the size of the militas alone. instead, i suggest we present issues, which will do both : - involve more people with fw - and improve the fw experiencehow about the idea of small poses, which was presented by nyphur ? every carebear dreams of having a home in space. now, connect that longing for a home with fw, and you have all high-sec supporting something, which for you is a fw improvement. would it be an idea to extend / replace the complex spawns by player built installations to fight about in order to gain occupancy ?i guess, even issler would want such a home. even if it was subject to occasional destruction / siege by the opposing faction... as a side effect, i would see these deployables as far better indicators for lag predictions. but i'm not a techie.fw pilots, please be creative and think out of the box. that will bring up suggestions, which will be voted through to ccp."
"you may be right, but that's not the general attitude most fw players adopt when it comes to the whole issue. (though i must admit the forum is a cesspool that might give a totally different impression) i apoligise if anything i said so far implied a \"want now\" attitude to the issue, just so we're clear there. =)i understand what you're saying, but while 0.0 and industry are indeed in need of an overhaul, one can argue that their gameplay \"works\", in the sense that taking part in it has the potential of being rewarded, and due to their pvp dynamics, they have a life of their own. (don't get me wrong; i'm not saying their mechanics are okay)on the other hand we have fw, that never felt like it was completed. it's a wholly empty experience; a free wardec disguised as something special, with the added effect of totally ruining your faction standings for absolutely no compensation and being denied to empire space. it's not hard to see why people leave because of that. on top of that, as i mentioned in my previous post, a front in fw has been completely conquered, with little chance for the gallente to recover assuming they even care for it. (the latter being a player problem that can't really be changed i'm afraid) now, the gallente are sharpening their knives to ridicule the caldari while they expect ccp to reset the whole thing, while meanwhile the caldari demand they get some sort of reward for their plexing, which would cause great amounts of drama if ccp were to implement a thing to reward to caldari *now*. (i hope you understand what i mean here)point is, fw was supposed to be more than a wardec, but it was never fully implemented. we're at a point where the entire fw experience (and with that i mean conquering territory, lore backstory, and just plain more depth in the whole thing) is blocked for the majority of the players. heck, most fw pilots would even be glad if we got a big explenation on what ccp is thinking about the whole thing. the fact that ccp is \"aware\" doesn't mean a whole lot. people want to know if it'll be worth sticking around."
"thank you to all the csm that have bothered to write replies.however, i do think that fw needs to have a higher priority. the csm can come up with a lot of separate individual issues on how to improve fw, but ankh already did that, the player already did that, and fanfest already did that. none of the things the csm brought up in the past regarding fw got implemented, and meanwhile things start to break down (fw cloaking exploit, fw occupancy map crash) which go unfixed, even unrecognized by ccp.at the moment we cannot even properly defend systems and capture plexes in fw because loading the occupancy map crashes the game.i don't think anyone is asking the csm to prioritize fw above 0.0 or other important issues. we do not dismiss other aspects of the game. we're just asking you to convince ccp to raise fw from priority 100 to priority 20 so it at least gets a higher priority than combat simulators, as ankh pointed out!"
"the reason why fw needs attention quickly is that the pve element is completely broken- and the main gripes could be lessened somewhat by relatively easy quick fixes. other areas of the game are indeed unfinished/unsatisfactory, but not to the same extent as this element of fw. some of the changes that have been suggested- changing plex spawn times, preventing cloaky plexing, increasing fw mission rewards, and nerfing caldari npc jamming- are not big things to implement, but would make the fw experience much better. i would like to think that a well written proposal suggesting something along these lines would be taken up by the csm, but i worry that any point raised is going to be voted down.anyway, in the bigger picture, the problem of lack of risk vs reward and underpopulation in lowsec is as much a problem for the health of eve as pos warfare being dull. as fw is one of the main drivers of people into lowsec, along with piracy, it deserves some love."
"well i admit i wasnt aware there were so many problems with fw (i only plex occasionally on my minmatar fw alt), so i'll see if we can do anything more to improve fw. :)mind you, i still stand by my votes from meeting #02 on the issues as they were presented there."
"guess the csm is nothing more than a lobby for big 0.0 alliances to get themselfes heared while all people living in high sec or low sec are being left out.also all of low sec seems to be affected by this lag, its just fw that has bigger fights regulary so that the problem is showing there far more than on other occasions.and do 0.0 systems really need to be reinforced to handle 50 vs 50 fights without lag? i think not!we dont ask for 500 vs 500 without lag, we just want 50 vs 50 to be playable ffscsm is completly useless for the average eve player"
"while everyone's brainstorming on the 'out-of-the-box,' brilliant proposal to present to the csm, i suggest we go general first.general is here.if something better comes along as the meetings with ccp come nearer, great. in the meantime, i'd feel more comfortatble knowing at least one general fw issue was going to be raised.dohl"
"sup, lowsec dwelling csm delegate here.i have been in fights in lowsec with upwards of 100 participants with managable lag. i have also been in fights with less than 60 with horrible lag. the difference? node reinforcement was requested for one and not for the other. due to the numbers involved i doubt ccp will ever allocate as many hamsters per system to lowsec as they do to some parts of 0.0, added to that the predictability of a lot of the larger battles in 0.0 which revolve around stront timers and the like. it is generally easier to prepare a node for a battle in 0.0 than it is for lowsec, especially the fw areas where large fleets tend to bump into each other.take advantage of the systems that are in place, if you anticipate a big fight for a moon/bunker then petition to reinforce the node."
"battles in 0.0 are admittedly easier to predict. but larger fw fleet battles do often take place in only a handful of sytems. so bring the fights to where the servers can cope - if systems x y and z are known to have more server-side resources made available, people will go to x y and z to have their lag-free fw fleet fights. not to mention pirates and other low-sec dwellers who might like a lag-free environment. there's even a game tool there for ccp- want faction a to attack a system? stick an order in the motd saying 'this week faction a are requested to attack etc etc..' shift server resources to support that system.. fw players know they'll get some lag free fights there, and fw campaigns become a bit less random and more story driven = good things."
"95% of all fights in fw always happen in the same systems anyway and there arent that many of themalso comparing this huge 0.0 blobs to fw is just stupid, i already stated we would never need that many hamsters than 0.0 doesanother fact is that this lag wasnt always there, at the beginning of fw the lag was just fine and fleets usually much bigger than the ones now. atm you get more lag in a 25 vs 25 battle than you got in a 100 vs 100 battle at the beginning of fwthat lag started about the time qr was applied and lasted until apocrypha, at the beginning of apo that lag was still therethen after a few weeks of really bad lag it was suddently gone and returned a few months laterwithout a single update on this issue from ccp !i also suggest the people that have no clue about this issue and just say \"deal with it\" should join fw and get into one of this lag battle themselfes before they make comments on this issue"
"1920x1200 here. can you say ouch?at the very least, give us a couple more readable fonts, even if it's only for the chatbox. verdana would be nice."
"yup"
"/signed"
"/signed i want that evil jump wormhole back :( and if you make it with new effects it would definitely look so cool. it's hard to tell what jumps in now, but before you could clearly tell/count how bad it was. ^^p.s. btw, you had a very cool warp effect on sisi 1-1,5 months ago. why you didnt put it on tq ? :( it was very good looking, grainy and ... very cool..."
"supported."
"do it."
"this is something that needs a serius looking into, int he currant war that i am in at the moment its beena common tactic by our enemies to feild rr domi's with pure tank setups and rr so they can attempt to take us on, even if we try and kill the rr when we cant break the original targets tank, the rr can dock up without any risk to themselfs as they may still dock and jump and we would still have the aggro count down to contend with, if one rr's a war target they should have the same consequenses as any other person even if it is not technicaly an \"agressive\" act and still have a timer before they can dock also."
"supported."
"since you are using the excuse of: \"other important things\" - like the musical instruments, which csm has pushed through? you joking, right? lets not forget how csm has referred to this request as a \"funky pos idea\" - when one starts making light of things, it clearly shows how \"important\" it was. give me a break, pos are lagfests, even a moron who runs missions all day would admit that when they enter a mission with a pos-like structures, and they are connected vs. scattered - the lag is much much less. currently whenever i am next to a pos my cpu use spikes, my fps drops, and it affects gameplay, whatever you might want to say about that. just because ccp is happy to accept idiotic inanities like musical instruments, and other trash csm shoves it up there - and passes it up as \"public demand\" - does not mean that we are all stupid. i clearly see that this whole csm has been, if not began as, a gigantic pr stunt. hence why i see other eve players realize it as well, since the turnout is becoming rather low. get a backbone, and realize that this is the most wanted feature on this forums. the pos thread is the longest running thread on forums, and most thoroughly ignored one. just bizarre. anyway, i hope you enjoyed you trip to iceland, after it seems that you and rest of csm are pretty much only care about that."
"i'm not sure if it would require a new proposal, but the best solution to this problem that i can come up with is to add every scannable object (including probes) to the overview filters, and introduce covert (cloakable) probes that are usable at a reasonably high sp level. and they should probably be some combination of weak, slow and/or expensive."
"as this lowers the barrier for low sec mission running i fully support it. (gotta feed my exotic dancers and the current stream of low sec carebears isn't enough...)"
"that's what happens now with every other non-drone focused ship. why should we get the shaft?"
"supported."
"/supportedhaving sentrys shoot drones is no different from having them shoot your guns. i can imagine the swarm of bawww if cpp made that happem."
"you mean like people can effectively do already in turret based snipefits?"
"you're my freaking hero at the moment."
"supported."
"trying to keep this above all the crap troll threads. *looks at chribba*this is still an issue, whether the caldari majority think so or not."
"bump for awesomeness"
"supporting this. not sure how debated this is but in an age of multiple titans and dd, would this be plausible? make the titan be able to fit a jump portal generator or doomsday weapon. make the ship have one role, either offensive or support but not be able to do both. might make battles a bit more tactical and reduce the incidence of multiple dd's."
"supported."
"supported"
"reeping your own drones make gcc for you if you are under -5 this is ridiculus"
"why was this mechanic introduced in the first place?fully support !"
"supported. stupid mechanic is stupid and pretty terrible."
"why do you decide what i find fun?? games are supposed to be fun, thats it. fun is a subjective thing and what i find fun you might find boring.as for the original suggestions, i'm not sure they are what is needed. doing away with the different types of rocks is a good idea and might help making it easier to balance the profit between high and low sec areas.however, the statistics already posted point at something that imo is probably a bigger problem when it comes to mining profits. namely the reprocessing. i know a portion of that is compression reprocessing but it seems to me as if it might be a bit to much.any mining revamp would have to take that into account, for example by removing the reprocessing of anything that can't be built by players and also removing the drops from rats of these items. would mean introducing another metalevel and balancing. but in the end it would achieve at least a reduction in supply which boosts profitability for mining.regardless of what happens with the revamp the basic idea should be that mined minerals are the basis of industry. loot reprocessing and hauler spawns should be icing on the cake so to speak."
"supported"
"/supported"
"why the hell not"
"there's already a titan in luminaire go visit it."
"oh hell yea!"
"for great veldspar"
"rawrchribba is sexy"
"i support this, due mostly to all the work chribba has done for the eve community.he is classed, as probably the most trusted person in the game.lets face it, most super capital sales would not happen without him."
"/signed"
"signed"
"forum troll reporting in.long live the veldator!!forum troll signing out."
"again im asking for csm update please."
"i second that request. it's a very straightforward issue. there may be significant difficulties getting it implemented but that's for ccp to determine. we'd just like to know if the csm sees any downsides to this."
"lots of people want wis. a fair few people don't. without taking some sort of vote count on it i don't think anyone can say for sure what the % either way is. i like the idea of wis, even though i do really want ccp to fix fw and loads of other stuff, just because it can make eve a more immersive, richer virtual world that will appeal to more people. after wis? maybe then would be a good time to go back and sort out the problems."
"linkagethis project is bigger then eve :p"
"here's what's gonna happen:1. wis comes out. turns out to be 'unfinished' as it is obviously of very limited use in the core gameplay framework of eve.2. ccp adds several minor gimmicks in one or two patches.3. walking in stations ends on the dead patch graveyard right next to factional warfare. meanwhile the mechanics that really need to be revisited (fw, mining, poses) keep rotting on the side track./sadface"
"this issue was raised after reading the last csm meeting minutes where two very specific fw related issues were shot down: one because it was a request to fix lag (a bug-report, in a way, that basically has no immediate, definable outcome), and the second because it was a complaint on lack of development that was changed to a request to give fw higher priority. delegates in the meeting have said they would likely support a more general request for information on fw, as they did with a request for information on industrial content.i want at least one fw issue on the plate of the csm when they meet with ccp. if its this general request, awesome; if its something more specific, even better.to support this you need only want to know more about the future of faction warfare."
"would like to know."
"i would like to know too."
"i pay the same subscription fee as anyone living in 0.0."
"these questions all require answers, particularly the fw lag and rewards related ones."
"signed. fw needs un****ed."
"seems like a reasonable request."
"this is pretty much what i advised erik to change his issue to, so gets my support"
"inquiring minds and such."
"i support this request. information is what we need from ccp as soon as possible, please. it has been too long since we have had any information on any of the subjects detailed here.\o"
"supported, most notably the bit about fw/ lowsec lag."
"a bit more info would indeed be nice !"
"well worded and non inflammatory. you are asking for clarification on specific issues and seems worded well enough to bring to ccp. supporting this."
"supported."
"answers would be nice here as fw seems to have no real goals to strive for at the moment"
"i am new to eve and was looking at fw. i have been advised not to bother as its a money and time sink with no real benefits. i would like to see what ccp are planning here."
"signed"
"hear hear!"
"signed"
"i support this topic, but have two concerns with it.-- the topic needs to be streamlined. it is borderline tl,dr and would come across stronger if you led with a very succinct summary of the issue, followed by your remarks about it separately. specifically, put request for \"let's at least get a general update on development and maybe even a schedule on the deployment of fixes\" closer to your bullet point list.-- i'm not happy that issues advocating actual action have been shot down, and we are reduced to *hoping* for the opportunity to ask \"what's up.\" i want an fw csm issue that advocates tangible action on fw issues and features.is this not a realistic expectation? do i fundamentally misunderstand the role of csm reps, some of whose election platforms included promises of support for fw - advocacy for dev attention and time, shipped features and strong support? i realize csm proposes and ccp disposes, but is the csm unwilling even to request action?tangentially, a nice addition to the csm wiki site would be official words on the csm's mandate: what it is and what it's supposed to do in ccp's view. this would save a noob like me the keystrokes to request a link to same, or vets the time responding to such request."
"signed"
"anything to make fw better, it's near pointless to play in the current state."
"welp"
"yes, this request for information is fair enough. i learnt in the last csm meeting that a more demanding position is inappropriate. thank you, dohl, for putting this up.i shall be happy to raise fw once more in this moderate version."
"ccp made a big deal about fw, now it seems to be left for dead some info would be nice."
"support + bump."
"short and sweet. any ship that has taken damage while in the process of self destructing should still give a km for every one that did damage. since the community expressed it unfair that we see the failures epic fit the km will only generate a hull mail without mods/fittings, and no mod drops, just and empty hull. the last person to give the final shot before the ship self destructs. the km should also note that the ship self destructed. this way cap pilot's that take the cawards way out to help preserve their stats still get a smudge on their record.edit for clarity."
"supported. doesn't have to drop anything (there should be some benefit to the destructor) but km is a must."
"no it's not."
"i completely agree."
"you want a killmail....but you didnt kill them, they killed themselves, so they get a lossmail.sounds right to me, it is the ultimate pvp, they player vs player'd you out of your km by being quick on the self destruct, and depriving you of a km.tl:drno, i think current mechanics provide just the right amount of grie***e for eve."
"so that you can deny me the right to deny you access to vital information on my fit? that kills the whole point of selfdestructing your ship. there are only so many cookie cutter setups, and after a while, i'd have to fail fit my ship in order to come up with something unexpected.so you want me to loose this tactical advantage so that you gan have a text file to increase your e-peen? sorry, but no./not supported"
"pretty much this. self destructing when you can't win and you can't escape deprives the enemy of intelligence on your fit. if you want the kill mail, figure out how to kill it before the timer runs out."
"maybe just make it so when you self destruct the kill mail will only include the ship type, dmg and the fact the pilot self destructed their ship. this way people cant hide losses by self destructs.idea needs to be more detailed to cover peoples concerns."
"no"
"you've got 2 mins to kill that ship, bring your dps. killmails aren't everything."
"ok, copy and paste this in to a text file:\"congratulations, you killed an erebus. u r effing awesome!ps: e-peenend\"there you go, text file full of e-peen."
"supported.expecting many people in npc corps and diehard non-combatants to not support."
"agreed, self destruct generates an empty hull mail so their super epic who gives a sh*t fit is hidden.as for saying someone did not kill the ship so you do not get the km, that is incorrect. the self destruct was in direct relation with hostile combat actions to bring the ship down. either way the agressors did in one way or another cause a ship destruction."
"how about during the self destruct process the ship loses ability to activate any modules or move/warp?in exchange it drops nothing and gives no killmail.supporting anyway though, i like the idea."
"how about, if you want a killmail, you actually kill the ship."
"sure. how about, if you want to self destruct, your ship adds nothing to the fight?(see, this isn't a good argument, even when i post it)"
"if we keep going back and forth like this, do you think we can suitably derail the thread enough to get it closed?"
"in 0.0 this may not be such an issue but in empire where you don't have an epic blob to take down a capital the story is different. not only that us merc corps often get paid on km's, more so on cap kills and these people deny us our daily bread.not only that saying that if you cannot kill it you do no deserve a km is absurd, as stated above we caused the ships death. not producing a km just protects stupid pilots who believe they can get away with doing stupid things without having to worry about any evidence if they self destruct."
"do you think you should actually post a valid argument against my idea?"
"oh - that was a serious proposal. sorry, my mistake.fine - how's this.going down with the ship is a time honored naval tradition - as is scuttling to prevent the enemy from capturing vital intelligence documents (or war material).however, just because you start the timer on the scuttling charges doesn't mean the ship can't still fire it's guns. one has nothing to do with the other."
"this"
"okay, rp. during self destruct, the crew is evacuating and the containment fields are being let loose so that they rip the ship apart. thusly, while self destructing all mods take heat damage.i just want to stop people clicking self destruct and trying to warp away, and surviving intact once they do get away. either you're going to die and no one gets your killmail or you keep fighting and have the chance to get away.or, simpler still, the ship just loses capability of warping while self destructing."
"fact of the matter is that if you can't kill a ship in the time it takes to self-destruct, then you don't deserve the killmail.you want a killmail? kill stuff faster./not signed"
"so you would actually get money for getting a guy to self-destruct his carrier?mercenaries are paid to actually kill people right not to get people to kill themselves, right.btw if you can't kill it then you shouldn't get a kill-mail.not supported."
"the partial km seems like a reasonable solution. if the ship self-destructs, of course the attackers should not get a full killmail. on the other hand, isn't there something wrong with them getting absolutely nothing?"
"here's a different question.why do you feel they are entitled to get anything just because they shot some ammo at the target?"
"because they did something to it, so they should get more than nothing. since they didn't actually destroy the ship, i think they should get information about what they shot at, and how much damage they did. nothing more, nothing less."
"ok: a) if they don't know what they were shooting at, i have serious doubts that a kill mail will help.b) the amount of damage is easy \"not enough\" just about covers it.in all due seriousness - let's look at this from a different perspective - why are you guys (and girls, if i missed any) so hell bent on getting a kill mail? aside from stroking the e-peen, what would it prove? that your dps sucks?for that matter, and another reason not to support this, is it could be used to pad kill boards. you get some alt in a different corp to selt destruct some nice fat target in low sec - you pop it one shot just before the boom at the end, and viola, one nice fat killmail for your stats.again, no and no. you want the kill mail, put in the work and get the kill."
"i believe they're called combat logs."
"have you read any thing? explain to me how taking the time with a small force to crack the tank of a cap, bs, what ever is not doing the work? this is just our most recent example, after 40 minutes the tank cracks and as soon as it does he initiates self destruct knowing with our small recon gang we cannot deal the dps in time. in effect our direct action's caused the loss of the ship and there should be some form of evidence, no matter how miner to reflect this.many times i have read threads of name and shame of cap pilot who does something stupid that would result in the loss of his ship to just have it self destruct. the action's of the non cap pilot's caused him lose his ship via self destruct to try and avoid the shame of losing his cap stupidly."
"that's the problem. even small gangs lag in fw."
"small gangs' in fw terms means 20 a side.until lowsec latency issues are solved i suggest you all start roaming in small gangs of say 5.there is certainly an issue. ccp is aware of it. it is not easily 'fixed' from wha ti understand due to allocation of resources being different in 0.0 than it is in lowsec/highsec.i believe most of the lowsec lag can actually be laid at the feet of missionrunner hubs and the nature of lowsec fw blobs. jumping into the same system with 60 people in lowsec, at the same time and with no-one knowing how to alievate client side issues, is a bad idea."
"i'd just like to add what little voice i have: fw lag needs priority now. i bet if they can find a fix, they will have found fixes for various other mechanics in low sec related to scanning and plexes."
"this."
"that i wonder too.yesterday a fight with 50-60 people, we all have to deagress and dock up because half the fleet is desynced.after that we fight again, and it shows my shipping turning into a pod, and back into a ship, and back into a ship for quite often. then it shows my pod is taking shield damage. i try to warp, after a while it finally stops showing i warp and then am back at the fight, and i am really in warp. i drop out of warp, and still see the entire enemy fleet on my overview. (and still in my original ship, logs show a total of one missile group hit me, so it wasnt even close to destroying my domi)."
"i hear from pirates that they get extra lag engaging fw blobs.the theory being mooted a while ago was that it was the extra standings."
"signed: ccp please make eve as accessable as possible.aditionally, op: i passed over this thread meny times as the title looked like another generic game balence whine - there is absolutly no need for cryptic titles in this forum!"
"make it so..."
"supporting and bringing this up at the next meeting :)"
"yeppers, the whole disabled people are not offically supported **** won't wash this time"
"i'm not even sure why the buttons were removed... supported."
"so what are you asking for here?are you asking that ccp \"think twice before making little changes\", or are you asking for them to reconsider taking away the zoom buttons?to the first one, i'm sure ccp thinks every change they make to the game through by about a thousand times, but with a player base of some quarter million from countries all over the world, there's no possible way to account for some scenarios. they've been getting reamed for years about the ui and they're trying to clean up the clutter, and pyr3x' corpie got caught in that crossfire. that said, i agree that they could take a look at that specific zoom issue and i don't see why it would be a problem to get those buttons back in. makes sense to enable gameplay elements for the disabled and those of us who haven't updated their 2-button ball mouse since 1992 (yup, i still got one of those floating around here somewhere).tldr - be more specific with your posts and less whiny"
"yeah, i can see why this would be a problem for people without full use of their mouse/keyboard."
"not my words, but it was a muse. this was posting in a thread relating to the issue of macro use being essentially endemic to certain aspects of this game and the fact ccp cant combat such.the only current recourse is to suicide gank- but that is counterproductive, costly to the individual and extremely inefficient.players already have the tools to stop macro mining in 0.0 and lowsec, it is precisely this reason why macro miners are concentrated in empire highsec. macro mission runners are almost non-existent in lowsec and while present in some areas of 0.0 the majority of such abuse occurs in highsec.let players police the game where ccp has failed.proposal: limiting level 4 mission availability and the use of exhumers and mining barges to player corps only, in highsec."
"..and this prevents dedicated macro-miner corporations how? oh, wait. it doesn't.in fact there are already rmt and macro-ratting corps or even alliances with their funny automated smacktalk in local and so on.pointless and a complete waste of time. no support for this."
"this just lets players take the law into their own hands without losing ridiculous amounts of sec status. also, supporting because i'm pleasantly surprised to see my idea in here. though sorry op, now people will think you're my alt."
"it allows players to prevent dedicated macro-miner corporations. i would have thought that implicit in the op.on an aside, i would predict opposition from 0.0 alliance entity's that benefit from the ready availability of pos fuel that is a side effect of rmt via macro mining, but i would hope individuals would oppose the detrimental effect on the game of macro operations and approach the problem in a balanced manner. corp ticker added."
"exactlly"
"i like this idea. it also hampers npc corp lvl 4 runners. its a good thing."
"not supported..it just drives them to level 3's... really stupidand mining lasers.... no less.can you people actually use your head before you make up these ridiculous ideas?"
"this is asinine. solves nothing, ruins the gameplay of a lot of honest players, and makes no sense in gameplay, roleplay, or any other terms i can think of. not only do i not support this, i think you're a lesser human being for having proposed it."
"didn't know they made forum poasting macros.once upon a time, there was a mechanic in-game to deal with this, but people whined and concord response timers dropped and sec hits skyrocketted. it was a tradeoff, and the carebear community picked wrong."
"didn't know they made idiot macros either.seriously... stop living in a fantasy world and start living in reality for once.you cant just go around forcing the issue like some idiot with a damn hammer forcing a square peg into a round hole.if you can't rationally think things through then you have no business coming up with ideas let alone any particular rational opinion."
"it's pretty awesome how very little you said with that many words. you've got talent ;)what fantasy world am i living in? what i said was that there once was a mechanic for dealing with macroers and it was ousted. whiners got suicides nerfed, and now macroers are harder to deal with. i'm fine with that one way or another - i'm not particular.explain. overused cliches are not legitimate argument points, unless it's an argument about overused cliches.which part of what i said was irrational and why?"
"this is a bad enough idea without the claim that the mechanics would be \"player driven,\" which just makes it hilarious."
"i like this idea... a lot."
"yeah. this, combined with a ban on corp-hopping exploits, would seriously help solve the macro issue."
"i must say, this might be the worst idea i've ever seen on these forums."
"no way. the \"auto emergency pod warpout on ship destruction in lowsec\" is an undisputed champion of stupidity. this here isn't great but at least made in good faith."
"totally stable, no problems pulling off 6-8h sessions without crashes.the only problem is if you run multiple windowed clients and the total pixel area of the clients is greater than the total number of pixels on your primary display. you might then suffer from 0.5fps on one or all of the clients (it seems a bit random)."
"the following characters have been paid their isk for participation asof friday 12.jun 09 23:03 (gmt+1):gabriel darkefyre"
"now this is what we've needed for quite a long time now, kudos for this topic, make it happen ccp."
"agreedseriously ccp, major issue here."
"this is made of pure 24k fail which is a shame because otherwise the proposal is quite good."
"bleh, obvious problem will never be fixed."
"i don't understand, what exactly are you proposing here? do you want a widespread investigation into rmt in character sales, ratting/farming, market bots, what? alliances, gtc sales? they all lead to some tinfoil conclusion about character sales judging by your post.i'm sure ccp loves to dig out rmt wherever they can find it. i've purchased and sold literally dozens of characters and gtc's. i don't see anything conclusive in your investigation and could easily believe you could add me, my alts and several other character resllers to a similar list. i don't do market bots or rmt, but insinuating i do could lead to similar, unsubstantiated conclusions.not supported. if you want ccp to investigate suspected botting activity, petition it. otherwise if you want to call for a more general investigation of rmt affecting the game, do so."
"not quite. the point is that some characters already have petitioned several characters, several times. it's been goin on for several months. what i'm proposing is that ccp seek new ways to aid them in combating this problem, and make some sort of statement on why they've not acted on those petitions.usually when a company encounters a problem that they can not solve them selves, the only solution is to approach a consultant. have they done so?in fact, the obvious steps before getting to that point, is do a bit of internal brainstorming, look at potential solutions, and approach companies that might have a better solution, and get their advice on how to combat the current problem.another thing is, that ccp appears to not heed the advice of it's own customers. that is what this is all about. i want some answers, and i think the current level of efficiency is below a satisfactory threshold.i'm not saying that i think rmt/botting/macroing has to be removed completely from the game, because that's not really viable. there are no automated programs that can do this for you. but you can put automatic data analysis programs to work, and make them look for certain patterns. this way, you have an automatic program that tells you where to look for potential botters/macro's.another thing that can be done, is to demand that each trial account has to be verified, either by credit card, or by passport if you haven't got a credit card. also, demand that the first month of subscription on each account is paid by credit card, or some other manner of secure payment that verifies that you are a person.this would prevent people from running accounts that are not owned by a verified person, and make it harder to sell an account on ebay (eula states that you are not allowed to sell an account anyways). i think it might also be a good idea to limit how many alt accounts people have.these are just a few measures that can be taken in order to limit rmt/macros/bots. that is what i'm trying to get support for here.and if ccp wants to allow some people to use bots because they'll loose too many customers if they ban the large scale operations, then everyone should be allowed to use bots/macros. even the playing field so to speak.i hope this clears things up a bit."
"wow, that's a far better summary and far more supportable. i'll endorse this as you've now provided practical questions and solutions to the problem posed."
"i suppose you are american as only you live and die by credit card. the idea of somehow sending your passport data by internet is another bad one. if your account get hacked you will have a lot of fun (and as passport data can be used for a lot of illegal activities, hacking accounts will become much more common as the return will be higher than simple credit card data theft). another \"small\" point: rea you aware of the existence of the eve game boxed set? the one with the nice 2 month gtc in it? your brainstorm will make it useless and unsaleable. i have looked the thread you linked and there is nothing in it proving that the linked character are using bots. only the declaration that it is so by the op. he has dig up a lot of character sales and he claims they were sold at inflated prices. that, to me, sound more like a way to do isk exchanges in a apparently legitimate way, so maybe rmt, but there is no direct link in that to botting. for a botter it is much more useful to use \"home grown\" characters, especially if he is using a market bot, so a character that require very little as trained skills. as a final note i find very fun the people that say \"i am forced to change my orders every 5 minutes and all the people that change orders every 5 minutes are bots\".if you can change those orders every 5 minutes, what make you think other players can't?what make you think that with 40k players on line and several hundred with market orders in jita only bots will change orders as soon as you do?you aren't competing with 1 character only, you are competing with hundred or thousands. some bot exists (probably) but speaking like 99,99% of the market was dominated by bot is ridicule."
"exactly... for there to be a true lock down of said nasty actions would require way too much personal information for it to be truly effective.which is exactly why this stupid little witch hunt is just a stupid whinefest at best.you people need to keep in mind that just because ccp has not said one word about it... other than the implied comments and chit chat.... doesn't mean they aren't looking into it.for all we know they could be banning people left and right... and they don't need to tell anyone.ccp's default policy is to not tell you what they are up too when it comes to such actions.i don't expect that to change either."
"i suppose you must live in afganistan since you actually believe that americans are the only people in the world that can use credit cards. besides, how else do you pay for anything on the internet? paypal? how do you transfer your money to paypal? debit card?and btw, no, i'm not american. i'm about as far from american as can be. well then use a credit card. i use a credit card, and even though somebody would hack my account, they wouldn't be able to access my cc details. if you tried it, you'd understand how it works. i've been using cc's for numerous purchases over several years. i've never had my details stolen, and the only people who i know had their details stolen are so sub average iq, that i'm wondering if the world wouldn't be better off without them.besides, even if your details do get stolen, you can report it and get a refund. lol, will it? you still need to connect to the internet, and you still have to open up an account. unless you know some way of avoiding this? all i'm asking is that each account is verified by a credit card. lot's of services in this world require this, and not just on the internet. in the uk, you need a credit card in order to get a mobile phone.considering how many people have mobile phones these days, i don't think it's too much to ask that you verify that you're a person via credit card.you obviously haven't, and if you did, then you failed to understand it.nobody ever said this in the thread. and the thread was not about that. previous threads, that have been locked and removed by ccp showed the proof. large scale manipulation of the rare implants market. and if you did read it, then you'd also know that the person removed over 80b worth of implants after the thread was created.so, who's pointing fingers here? who's making assumptions here? who's making wild and bold statements about things they don't know anything about?seems obvious to me."
"and i thought i was the paranoid one here."
"i trade in a whole lot of items, mostly related to invention. some are more competitive than others - decryptors tend to get bumped every few minutes, unfashionable hacs every few hours - but none are half as bad as you describe. most of the things that are that competitive(ferrogel, say) tend to fill 20 orders at once when someone actually does sell to a buy order, so it doesn't matter too much if you're on top. if market bots do exist(and yeah, they probably do), they aren't in half the fields i trade in, and they're not easily distinguishable from normal market activity in the other half. to this day, the fiercest competition i've had was from a guy competing with me to buy salvage - we id'd each other, opened convo, and both of us watched movies on one monitor and bumped 4 orders on the other, plus occasional a bit of light conversation. clearly human, and he was harder to buy things through than any jita order i've ever put up. if jita is less bad than a single human, i'm going to say that bots really aren't a problem. also, consider the effects of what you propose. make a mistake in your order, either because of lag or because of player error, and your botched order is up for four hours before you can pull it down. is that really how things ought to work?"
"^^^^^^^common sense^^^^^^seriously... that is as real as it gets... hersch nailed it right on the head."
"planetary development and sov. holding mechanics that make it impossible to hold vast empires"
"supported"
"i can't find anything to add to this really.the suggestions from darius and vuk get my full support."
"thumbs up"
"supported... again"
"supported.... ms buff means more lowsec hotdrops on teh gankzbearzzz ftw!..."
"some of these ideas would make sense if tuned to proportion, but most of em are ridiculous carebear ideas:* no cloak delay* planet sized cargo/ship bays* imunity to warp disruption* super ecmgtfo... ms', like titans, are just shiny epeen extenders tbh...i wish lark wud shine his lite on the subject..."
"no support.missiles are fine ... just get closer."
"in my opinion, all weapons systems could use one good hard revamp, some are more balanced, and some are less. but that is not the topic. i like that each has it's own unique \"style\". however, i just want to be able to snipe a target before it can warp off, if a freighter can warp before the first volly hits, something is wrong.i will admit that the proposed changes are very basic in nature, and did not take into account anything but range, i am merely bringing up the issue of missile sniping. i do not doubt that to truly fix and balance it many changes will be required. i also agree that it is a problem with fleet command, but the best option i see is to have two groups, one missile, one everyone else, and call separate primaries for each, remembering to cycle before all the vollies hit, or have someone calling off a list of targets just for the missile users. this pretty much clogs up coms, and confuses the fleet. otherwise, the missile users might as well just pick their own targets, and free fire.the issue is in fleet command, the issue is that the necessary commands to make missile ships viable in a fleet will confuse and clog the communications or require you to make a seperate ventrilo channel just for the missle useing battleships, fracturing your command structure more, and making it even harder to relay commands to your entire fleet, you dont need your battleship fleet split in two,just makes it harder. atleast this is my perception.if you doubt that missiles are so bad at sniping, there is one piece of evidence i would like to present, most alliances have banned long range missile snipers in fleets. the only time your allowed to undock that raven is in a pos bash. if that isnt good enough evidence that it is hard to make missiles viable at sniper ranges, i give up."
"i feel that the person should only be kept from docking if the person(s) that they've aggressed are shooting them. keeping from being docked shouldn't be affected by other people.example 1: person a undocks in a bs, person b is outside the station in a bs. person a and b both aggress. now neither of them can dock until one of them is dead, unless they both de-aggress.example 2: same persons a and b above aggress each other. person b's 5 buddies from next door jump in as soon as person a is aggressed. person a kills person b while person b's friends are pounding on his bs. person a should now be able to dock (with a 60 second timer) as long as he doesn't aggress any of person b's friends.if i'm reading your proposal right, example 1 is true, and example 2 is false. under your proposal, person a in example 2 would be unable to dock until he dies. why would *anybody* ever fight outside a station if they are guaranteed to lose their ship to a trap?all a change like your proposal would do is completely stop people from fighting outside stations, because if the other guy has friends next door, you're going to die because you'll never be able to dock.if i've simply misunderstood your proposal then i apologize."
"i've proposed exactly this idea before; i agree with it just as much now as before.the key is that a ship that does not act in such a way as to flag itself can redock; this mechanic has no effect on that. but once a ship engages in the fight (thus flagging themselves), then they are stuck until such time as the escape by outfighting or outflying their opposition."
"you do realize that this only makes blobs more powerful? if you can't do hit and runs anymore the blob is an instant win."
"exactly. worst idea ever. if you can't get kills within 60 seconds you are doing it wrong anyway."
"id rather die to an blob than to a petty hit and run station game crap."
"you are looking at this completely backwards. a blob will already have enough to kill you before the aggression timer runs out. the blob is already instant win. unless you're calling a carrier undocking, killing a ship and redocking a \"hit and run\" attack. this is a boost to smaller fleets and solo pilots."
"this post has been cleared of inappropriate content.regards,the eve online moderation team"
"please rajere... give it a rest... you've very well likely been warned by ccp... pushing the issue is going to make it worse."
"i wish for there to be atleast a choice, to be able to add a dot to the end of ones name, so when i post it says :faekurias. sovereign. black legion. rite? is this the assembly hall or did i go wrong ? totally cool brahs."
"no more dots. stop dots"
"going to dps, very slowly."
"run to the centre."
"moved to assembly hall."
"that's a 50 dkp minus!"
"ban dots from all names, personal, corp and alliance. and just disband those to make them reform under some original name"
"who the **** was that???"
"great. coad found the assembly hall via c&p.could someone point out to ccp z what he did wrong?(someone besides me, i mean. i don't need an unannounced vacation)."
"you seem to believe you're better than the general trolls.(protip; you're not. )"
"c&p fosters a much higher quality of troll that comes with extra thick skin and a meaner temper.also, idea not supported as ~ beats . and  beats both of them and ccp zymurgist is a terrible mod."
"you seem to believe i care about your opinion.(protip: i don't.)"
"good for you. no, really. i'm proud."
"lovely.... stinky thread of the day./me puts on gasmask"
"wait. it gets better."
"yeah, i heard that he actually killed someone with a deimost."
"and the aftertaste ~~~~~~~~"
"..sometimes i just love you faek. and not only when we do make sweet sweet manlove."
"this thread shows yet again how childish c&p is (yes even more than coad) the only thing you guys have is good pirate stories with well... mostly ******ed comments.plus no you can't have a point."
"srsly, these options should be selected by default in my browser."
"not supported until i have the option to block posts from idiots.*waits for the irony to sink in*"
"gross injustice - this stupid thread"
"your rhetoric sucks, but so do these forums. the fact that we can't see pics and sigs without logging in, combined with the fact that the forums log you out every few minutes, makes some things far more irritating than they ought to be. supported, even if the way you phrased it is stupid."
"signed. this is indeed a gross injustice!!!111"
"some hulls have a considerably shorter lifespan than others by nature of their use and for many the design flaws inherent in slot placement and hull attributes with regard to them carrying out thier intended role.the interceptor is at heart a tackler. it does its job admirably, but is extremely fragile and a dedicated tackler can go through an astonishing number over the course of a fleet fight- and they are no longer the cheap ship they used to be, a gateway for a new player with relatively low sp to be useful to a fleet. the electronic attack frigate (or eaf). fragile even beyond an interceptor without the speed of an interceptor and gimped by an inability to function at the ranges of its spiritual big brother the recon. eaf's die fast to any target with intelligence, provided said target isn't permajammed or blobbed into oblivion- in which case its pointless for the eaf to be there.the light dictor. suffers the inherent weaknesses of the destroyer hull but with a 40 million price tag and tiny increase in survivability considering its 30* + increase in price after fittings. not good for a ship everyone will primary the moment it arrives on grid.i am not suggesting a change to the function nor design of the above ship classes.i would propose a reduction in the material costs associated with producing them, specifically those associated with highend moon mining and t2 component production, in order to effect lower manufacturing costs and lower market prices."
"not supported.it's harder than you'd think to affect market prices by changing the manufacturing costs of the item. in all probability, the people making them would continue to sell them at the same price (because they can) and increase their profit margins per unit sold.some people probably would lower their prices, in order to beat out their competition, but unless those individuals (or corps) control significant market shares, average prices probably won't dip much - especially if the lower prices lead to higher demand (by increasing the number of consumers in the market)."
"this...."
"i think you're overstating the difficulty of the problem - the issue you identify would have been real in the days of t2 bpos, but with invention it's not nearly so bad. if the margins get too big, more people flood into it, and drive the price back down eventually. i'm an inventor, and i know that i tailor my choice of what to produce based on margin, and that any product with too big a margin gets hammered back down to normal within a fairly short period of time. i fully expect that this proposal would do exactly what he wants it to do. i don't support it, but the reason i don't support it is that it sets a nasty precedent that less survivable should imply cheaper, which is a terrible philosophy for things like recon ships, which are paper-thin and properly priced at 80-90% of hac prices. it might make sense for a ship class that is underused because of cost, which could be an apt description of eas, but interceptors do not need a buff, be it mechanical or financial, and dictors are specialized enough ships that i don't think that cost is the primary factor in how well-used they are."
"all t2 ships are too expensive right now. i'd rather they do something about the high-end moon mineral supply."
"mods delete please"
"supported."
"i farmed the hell out of static 1/10 and 2/10 plexes when i first started playing. no-one else knew what to shoot for the dead space drops so i raked in isk.leave them be.instead remove the 0.0 static spawns and plexes that are left- and there are some left."
"not supported.seriously, why not just suggest that ccp stop accepting new players for eve?"
"not supported. low-end plexes get new players into different game mechanics, and aren't valuable enough to be worth farming. the status quo on this one is great."
"i travelled through 0.0 today only to find a lot of macro-ratters all over. this is not only from newbie corporations, but this is even done on alliance level!this has probably been proposed several times already. but i think it deserves to be proposed again!this proposal is to have ccp make a dedicated gm anti-macro squadron which task is only to \"seek & destroy\" macroers around the clock."
"ofc!"
"i volunteer."
"yes please! in immortal jove battleships that are faster than interceptors with mwd's, track better than scripted officer tracking computers, and have unlimited scramble range!and record the action! post the videos on youtube for everyone to see!/supported, signed, kisses and hugs.also, i heard supporting this thread yields free beer!"
"i approve.edit: and volunteer"
"this.but seriously, macro-ing isk farmers are also involved with a lot of \"illegal\" rmt.edit: support"
"agreed. when i can fly threw 0.0 and see 10+ bots over the course of 20 minutes there is an issue."
"kill macros, bots, and crapp. ban entire alliances, etc.edit for support"
"want ability to store ship fittings in .xml, .html, .txt or .mht format."
"xml files already worksctrl-shift-f -> browse -> export"
"just make a copy of your settings folder. which you can find on a windows machine here;c:\documents and settings\{{your user name}}\local settings\application data\ccp\eve\c_program_files_ccp_eve_tranquility\settings---but yes i would like to see ccp put in something along the lines of what you suggest."
"so should we petition tama and similar systems every night? local often reaches 100+ and if it was known that the server can support it larger fights would be more common... even now 40-50+ on grid happens almost nightly.also, you do remember that the \"fw lag\" has not always been there, like nephilim pointed out? it seems to be not just about the hamsters and ccp have admitted to something along those lines... we just want progress and at the very least updates on this issue."
"first up i not think i've ever seen anyone in fw say they deserve special treatment, all we are really asking for is a fix to the lag in maybe no more than 8 systems, is that truely too much to ask ? ( esp as it was fixed for a week or so then strangely \"broken\" again once we got used to running fleets of more than with minimal lag ). we even put did organised fights with set numbers with logs running to help but nothing other than a \"thanks\" from ccp was ever heard from for us doing this. as new content surely it deserves some attention, even just to iron out a few of the issues ? all of you're examples of people who \" are more important \" are rubbish tbh, 0.0 player and sov fair enough needs looking at, but what if these players couldn't undock in a gang of more than 15 withuot being lagged out if found a fight ? industry fair enough need some love, but miners etc not seem to struggle with lag when turning on strips so much do they ?"
"****balls tbh.bit of a failure on the fw front.i guess some of the proposals weren't necessarily that well worded but i'm completely unimpressed with the discussions that followed on 2/3 of the issues.i don't think the majority of the csm understand some of the issues involved in some of the issues at all to be perfectly honest."
"with all due respect, if you haven't researched a topic well enough to consider yourself completely informed, should you really be voting on it? there are plenty of people you could have spoken with who could provide you with a condensed summary of the issues to help you prepare for the meeting. there's also documentation of the complaints about fw raised to the last csm which were shot down by csm members who hadn't even tried fw.i played in faction warfare from its release until the apocrypha expansion. the build-up was some awesome storyline and it indicated that fw was to be ccp's new big thing. the beginning of fw was fantastic, with diverse fleets roaming around capping plexes and fighting whatever they could find. although plexing quickly lost its appeal when it became clear that system ownership was worthless, there was still tons of awesome pvp to be had and it kept my corp entertained for months. we had small gang pvp with destroyers, frigs or cruisers, large battleship gangs and ad-hoc fleets of 80 or more pilots. i wrote two articles on fw in those early months singing its praises because frankly, it was just that awesome. i remember thinking \"this right here is what eve is all about, get new players into this.\". it had a few problems of course but with feedback from players it was understood that those problems would be sorted out quickly enough to not be a big issue and development on fw would continue to make it perfect. it was a great time and i'm sure ccp were patting each other on the back for a job well done.the problem was a complete lack of follow-up. those problems it had at launch which would have been relatively trivial to fix are still there a year later. system ownership is still worthless, fw missions are still pointless and the plexes that respawn at downtime still provide more capture points than can be neutralised by running plexes in the region for the entire rest of the day. that's how the caldari took every gallente system, by running the plexes immediately after downtime every day. when the gallente stopped fighting them for the downtime plexes, their systems fell like dominoes. to be clear, these are all failings of the system that were pointed out a year ago and should have been worked on since then. new problems have even crept in like the ability to capture complexes while cloaked and the crippling lag that ccp have been dragging their heels on identifying and resolving.fw wasn't the kind of feature they could just create and then leave for a year, it's not like adding more mission content or a new ship. to re-appropriate a phrase used earlier in this thread, faction warfare came with an expiration date. it may now be too late to fix it.after we did the whole wormhole thing for a few months, i decided to join fw again for some of that laid back pvp fun i remembered. instead, this time i couldn't even get a fight out of the caldari because most of the people interested in pvp had left due to the lag. all the fights i got were against pirates and i sure as hell didn't need to be in fw for that. i don't know if fw was just a stall-tactic to keep players interested until apocrypha or if it was genuinely meant to be good but the fact is that it was awesome when it started. a year later and with absolutely no follow-up, it's all but dead. even the storylines have stalled and died in spite of all the promotional releases leading up to fw."
"fw pilots aren't suggesting that their issue deserves more attention than others. fw pilots are manifesting their deserved frustration at how, for the entire existence of factional warfare in eve, fw-related issues have been pushed further and further down in the queue of priority if not outright ignored while the 0.0 crowd (which, as stated in statistical releases from ccp represents a very small fraction of the overall playerbase) seems to get all of their concerns answered near instantaneously.and you should hardly be surprised if any given player 'demands' that an issue be fixed 'now'. the pvp-inept demanded for months that 'nano' ships be nerfed now and it happened. almost all pvpers demanded that caldari recons be nerfed now and it happened. there seems to be a prevailing hope that if we demand fw be addressed by ccp now some attention might actually be paid."
"i'd just like to add to this that there doesn't appear to be a single thing with lower priority in eve than fw. it's been a year since its release and it has seen absolutely no development whatsoever. not even the simple tweaks and fixes that should have been implemented in the months following the expansion's launch. there's been a lot of talk, some good ideas and a lot of \"we're looking into it\" but so far not a single significant change or fix to fw has hit tq. this isn't about making fw high priority, it's about asking if they're ever going to develop it."
"now, this is a valid complaint/request.however, the request that was presented to the csm was not that one, it was specifically stating that fw should have higher priority. hence why it got voted down.plans for fw development/improvements is a fine topic to discuss, as would be specific issues that are not aknowledged by ccp, or specific improvement ideas.each proposal has pros and cons, it seems a lot of people look at the pros without looking at the cons. \"assigning a higher priority to fw\" => decreasing the priority of everything else. (not fine in my book)\"giving fw corps free wardecs\" => giving a disadvantage to everyone not taking part in fw. (not fine in my book).\"fix lag now\" => other than the tone, a valid request, one that ccp already approved of. (and keep in mind fixing stuff takes time).if you want to discuss this further, hit me up in game."
"not necessarily.fw has priority 100.combat simulators has priority 25.0.0 sov has priority 5.combat simulators gets assigned devtime, while minor fw fixes slip under the radar.now:csm convinces ccp to put fw to priority 20.issues 20-99 are affected, issues 1-19 are unaffected.0.0 and fw get assigned devtime, with 0.0 still retaining a higher priority than fw.result: happy fw and 0.0 players.noone is asking to assign priority 1 to fw."
"if you think a general issue about encouraging ccp discussion in regards to faction warfare is a worthwhile issue, please visit this thread and support it as your csm colleague omber zombie has.thank you,dohl"
"@ dohl: i'm most certain that topic will appear in the csm shortly. and as i said i would, i'll vote it up if the requirements i mentionned above are met and it's not a stupid/unbalanced improvement suggestion ;-).i'm careful about expressing support for "
"i'm not denying that, i'm just saying that nothing important will get affected. 0.0 and whatever still retain the same amount of resources, but things like combat simulators which everyone hated would have gotten scrapped. please re-read the example until you understand it."
"ank, you are trying raise the rabble claiming that the combat simulator took resource away from other eve features. ccp made it very clear (over and over) when we were in iceland that the team that did the combat simultor was new and was not able to work at that time on any of the primary features of eve. the combat simulator was in effect a way to get that new team up to speed.the fw zealots need to realize that the request in the last meeting was to make fw higher priority. sorry, things have been broken and needing attention in other areas longer thant fw. so the csm was not going to tell ccp to put fw in front of things that have needed attention since before fw was introduced.ank's bizzare resources from thin air idea about prioritization essentially violates the laws of physics \"conservation of dev resources\" :-)so again, \"fw, get back in queue, no cutting line!\"issler"
"noone is asking to put fw in front of things that need attention more.fw is currently at priority 100. people are asking for priorty 20, not priority 1. which is what is meant by giving it a higher priority. please understand."
"my complaint was specifically that fw has low enough priority that it hasn't been developed at all in an entire year, including a complete lack of the post-release tweaks that are customary for any new expansion content. of course fw's priority should be raised. the current priority level has let it go a full year without necessary updates and has let it get to the point where the entire fw system is becoming worthless, it's clearly on too low a priority. nobody's asking for it to be given absolute number 1 priority, we're asking that it be raised to a level such that it actually gets developed before we die of old age. otherwise we could be having this same argument in another year's time asking why they haven't developed fw in two years."
"fonts fonts fonts! i need to change them! russian locale uses good ones, but it's bad."
"supported. having a list of 10 or so fonts would be cool.and i imagine it would be relatively easy to change, mainly the issues would be in coding."
"/signed"
"yes"
"more horse powerand fuel pellets pl0x"
"sweet mama that's hotsupported"
"do it"
"so, first we get thisthen we get thisthen we get thisand then thisso this:46. 0102-07-0077 funky pos recommendationwaited the whole term, and was as lavista vista said, never officially talked about in the csm meeting with ccp in iceland, was given a joke of a name, and made to seem only so so wanted by the general public.that is hardy taking it to them, and we the player base that vote for you, the csm want this...one of the most important things about any proposal is the title, that title made this look like a joke.we already know this will take a lot of work, and we want development time spent on it, we want ccp to give us a real reason for not working on pos's as a whole, and leaving the whole system as broken as it is. we want modular pos's, which would help with reduction in lag, make pos's physically appealing. it would also make setting pos's up a lot easier, and feel like you doing more then moving junk around in space.this could also allow for shared hanger bays, no longer needing to move bpc's from a lab to a production array's, or ships over to hangers when you deliver them. guns wouldn't need there own storage, no array would, making using a pos for production easier. docking in the pos, so no more pos bubble, it fits however many ships you can fit in the sma connected to it, it would prevent blobs sitting in pos's for hrs on end, and encourage fights. these are just a few ideas that could go through with this update, its not like it would be the only thing that has to happen when ccp update the looks, and feel, they should upgrade the system as a whole. if they think it would be to much work to rewrite the current system, they can keep it, and use this as a tier 2 pos, write fresh code for it. end of day, we want this, and until csm brings it back to ccp, and we get straight answers, and a yes, or in depth reason as to why not, then we will continue to ask the csm to bring it to ccpi hope you like seeing this thread on the front page of assembly hull, because it no one else bumps it, ill make sure it gets a bump every 24hs. edit: oh, every week that csm ignores this, ill be adding a new ad to isksense for this cause."
"csm has failed eve community miserably with this. the excuses are appalling, \"we were allowed to discuss, but we did not, because ccp did not want us to\" ... \"we did discuss\"... \"no we did not really\".... \"the expectations are unreasonable\" ... this is a joke. csm is a f-ing joke, i have a letter from bunyip - that says he will bring it up before the end of the term, did he? i have not heard of anything of the sort. what is more shameful is that ccp is totally ignoring this thread, and has been ignoring other one for years now, guys, years... anyway, i think eve community is to apathetic about pretty much anything, and csm are too scared of nda, ccp, and a loss of a trip to iceland. personally, i think csm is a failed experiment, and as i mentioned before a biggest gimmick and a pr stunt of ccp.an issue which has been overwhelmingly supported, and yet ignored lingers on the forums. csm making excuses for ccp as to why they can not talk about it, and ccp is just keeping its mouth shut, not even a dev blog on - on an issue that has been around for over 3 years!!! the best part of it though, is that csm is now ccp's mouthpiece, the ccp themselves do not have to say anything at all, just let csm make excuses for their iceland plane ticket sponsors, and hotel payers."
"didnt you guys recently redesign all ships graphics in trinity? then all everything else in apochrypha? that had to be a massive effort."
"the eve community has overwhelmingly agreed that the 'other aspects of the game' that have been under development instead, are unnecessary! what effects have all of the other upgrades they've given us lately had? t3, while interesting, is just that, something of intrest bogging down other parts of the game that need more attention."
"bump"
"ahh saw this after i posted my own more basic proposal.+1"
"this is missing ingame"
"unfortunately, your justification is that you your unable to solo-move your corp's logistics. i'm sorry, but is the only reason anyone wants one is for solo-moving things? unless there is a valid reason beyond: \"i can't do solo\" logistics, i can't support it. there needs to be a more substantial role for this ship. no ship in this game has been designed for \"solo-things\" ever. --isaac"
"iteron 5 or orca. pick one."
"you will never get the perfect hauler let alone the perfect ship.adapt or die... simple as that.the orca is not designed to be a hauler... although it can fulfill that job quite well.your also mistakening it as a mining ship... it doesn't mine at all in fact... unless you use mining drones. it has only 3 high slots and no turret slots... which are required for mining lasers let alone strip miners.its an command ship... hence the skill book required for it. you show up... drop anchor... and ganglink your mining crew... and sit back and watch the rock roll in.being the roqual's smaller brother... minus the jump drive, clone bay, and other neat tools... same principle and idea.if anything you'd be more productive that just standing guard : o ptry doing a bit of research before you start railing on something you don't know anything about.train up freighter... get the billion isk and you'll be be able to haul to your harts content. takes less time as well.now whether you want to fly a giant cargo can in lowsec 0.0 is up to you.jf's are not as large as they appear either.... freighters can hold about 8 to 900k m^3jf's only hold around 350 to 400k due to the fact they have a large jump drive.this i recently discovered as i'm tooling myself to fly one."
"supported :)"
"the issue is that on a one to one basis rsd's are actually very powerful indeed; yes they are, start flying intelligently.however, as soon as you have a second target to worry about everything typically goes to hell.the seemingly obvious solution is to just increase base inflicted penalties across the board for all rsd's.but that creates another problem where people have utility slots stuffed full of them on no-specialized ships.we've been there before.i don't ascribe to the school of thought that says an ecm bonus'd ship should be able to cripple half a small gang (yes i still hate falcons) but i would like to see a careful re-balancing of rsd's."
"dont agree with some of your ideas, but i do agree with the overall idea."
"yeah, why not!"
"what a shame................move my cap ships to high sec aswell then, they will be a touristic attraction aswell....what a shame really, a man asking something for himself only and all the doggy \"yup yup yup\".you are all fu+ed... face it."
"hi.my english is not very good, so i will try to make this short.when you lose your pod, your training speed is recalculated instantly and automaticly. but i've been surprised, why you need to manually pause skill for clone jump or insertion of implants.please, try to make this things a less annoying too..."
"this should be easy to implement. when someone hit the command for inserting/destroying an implant or clone jumping, the server needs to interpret this as the following commands:1 - pause the skill queue.2 - do the chosen action.3 - resume the skill queue."
"this also occurs when reactivating an account."
"it made sense before, when a podding didn't recalculate your rate of skill gain. now that they've fixed it for one, though, they should fix it for all."
"yes"
"my past experience has shown that this really shouldn't be that difficult to implement. the check for pre-reqs currently occurs at two points. when injecting a skill, and when starting/continuing training for a skill. i do the second check is already in place, as i had starbase defense management or whatever it used to be partially trained up, before they added the anchoring pre-req. after the change, i was unable to restart/continue training it until i had completed the pre-req. all that would be required to implement this would be to remove the injection check. seems simple enough to me at least.."
"sure."
"."
"this is exactly why it could be abusedi support this idea though, but you have to be training the final prereq first before you inject the skilli had this problem last night whilst finally training for stealth bombersi wanted to inject the covert ops skill but i couldnt because electronics upgrades v was still being trained, i like this idea, but like someone has said, you have to be training the final prereq whatever it might be before you can inject the skill, and the que is then locked"
"what if there was a compromiseyou can put inject and put covops i in the queue as long as up electronics upgrade v is in the queue.if at any point after injecting the covops skill, before it begins to train, you change your skill plan then the skill disappears. you will have to buy another skillbook."
"i can see it now...\"guys! i had amarr titan queued, but then i had to train another skill, and i lost my 4.6bil skillbook!!!! /emoragequit\"of course, if you don't realize that you have something that expensive queued you shouldn't be messing with it anyway. supported."
"\"waah waah, pay me some attention\"jeez, let it go already"
"i was just googling for how to set a corp motd.there are requests for this dating back to at least 2005.apparently it's easier to implement entire expansions than small, useful new chat features."
"i've been thinking about this for a while and to me it seems an interesting addition which would allow cool new tactics (especially with the new stealthbombers).its a simple proposal: allow covert cynosural fields in high sec. this will allow blackops battleships to portal covert ops and recons around for surprise attacks. alt scouting is a lot easier in high sec since the (often npc corp) alts enjoy concord protection in empire conflicts (war decs). this in turn makes it harder to set up a trap against an opponent who knows what he/she is doing. allowing people to portal in would be a way to avoid alt scouts by skipping several systems in one jump to allow surprise attacks.why?* give a bit more use to the blackops. it has received a few boosts already but it remains highly impopular.* increase the amount of tactics in high sec warfare (as this is already possible in low sec and 0.0). * covert cynos already ignore cyno jammers, and cannot be easily detected (dont show up system wide on overview). so what is preventing pilots from using covert portals in high sec empire space?why not?* it was mentioned to me that using covert portals, traders could quickly travel great distances in blockade runners. while this is true, i do not think it will be a major downside. blackops ships are expensive and skill intensive, not to mention you'd need a covert cyno at your destination. to travel in this manner would require 2 other pilots just to move 1 trader around, while blockade runners only have a modest cargohold. yes, it is a downside, but due to the effort and hassle involved i doubt it will be widely used and as such will only be a minor problem.* it would allow outlaws to enter high sec without getting killed at the entry stargates. i believe this is also a minor inconvenience since faction navy npcs spawn in high sec wherever the outlaw sits for more than a few seconds, thus severely limiting the mischief they could get up to. also, according to an outlaw in this thread, they can already enter high sec fairly easily."
"and i'm supporting it :d"
"not supporting because of this reason. logistics has no reason to become any safer or easier than it already is."
"it can't get much safer than it is right now with cov ops cloaks, and the range on covert jump bridge is very limited.there are already other ways for pirates to get into high sec, and it's mostly done in t1 cruisers/destroyers with the help of wormholes, orca's or just flying straight past the high sec police not a regular high sec dweller myself but don't see why this couldn't be allowed, might make hisec wars more fun."
"we can already enter highsec in anything up to a bc with ease, even traveling through stargates.a well skilled pilot that fits his bs right can even move it around in highsec, although in this case slight lag equals death.concord does not spawn when an outlaw enters highsec. the faction navy does.there is no reason for an outlaw to jump to highsec via a covert cyno and blackops, other than to save time on a journey. we cant hang around an fight in highsec, even with wartargets, due to the faction navy spawns. the kinds of ships that can jump are also inefficient for and malicious intent such as suicide ganking due to their cost.the issue of blockade runners is a non starter as far as a potential problem, given the investment in multiple characters and billions worth of ship to achieve it.supporting your proposal. there is no reason in my mind to prevent ships jumping to highsec from low or 0.0 via covert cyno and from one highsec system to another.one caveat: gcc should prevent jumping from highsec to lowsec else people can avoid concord punishment."
"re sir muffoon: since this issue concerns high sec only - people can already use npc corp haulers for near complete safety. using covert ops portals it doesnt get a lot safer... just slightly faster (with more effort as payoff) in some cases.re redsplat: my mistake, in my brief time as outlaw all i remember is not being able to stay in one place for very long :p - as far as gcc goes, i dont know what the current mechanic is, but you can already portal out of high sec. i think this is considered an exploit though. still, this issue only concerns portalling into (or within) high sec."
"your rationale is better than the last guy's, i have to say. i am tempted to support this, but the problem of blockade runners transporting stuff too easily is a major issue. it's easy to dismiss it, but you can transfer 10km3 per pilot per jump between distant trade hubs for next to no effort. it makes arbitrage too easy, and removes the need to actually move goods around. that isn't a good thing - i think this game has gone too far when it comes to jump logistics as is, we don't need to go further and add them to highsec as well. it's an interesting idea, and it does make sense within the game fluff(at least, assuming clear skies 2 was right about highsec having empire-owned cynojammers up), but i'm not a huge fan of the mechanics. i don't like having to say no for that reason, but i think i do. sorry."
"i choose caldari because they under lore of creation guide are the fleet specialist specializing in the art of war.i'm a pilot who has trained specifically for caldari's strengths shield and missles. at this point i feel sad about both skills as neither serve me well anymore especially the missles! training now to make a sniper boat with rails.hope i can be of some use in a month to my alliance till then the sound of the mining lasers hitting the rocks around me keep me mezmorized dreaming of the day i can stand on equal ground as the other races of eve./signed in support of increaseing missles effectiveness in fleets."
"thats two... can we get a few more in the thread?"
"/signed"
"supported even if i have left fw a lot of time ago. i doubt we would get much on the lag fix (i think that the day ccp they found what is the specific cause of lag in fw they will do a patch without the need for prompting by the playerbase) but all the other issues are important too."
"thing is at the start is was ok and for a short time was fixed ( apoc patch maybe or around that time ) since then been unplayable, if they can with notice boost certain systems why not make the handfull of fw systems that see the most action permanently boosted ie auga, dal and kourmonen with possably ammake and kamela in the amarr/min area and do similar in the gal/cald main combat systems ? seems a simple fix which ccp for some reason are not willing to do."
"fix the lag already"
"i like it, though perhaps the modules should be combined, or even given as a rig?"
"or perhaps both? as rig and module versions"
"supporting this."
"why not, all weapons have mods increasing they're potential but drones and that while some ships are orientated to have drones as main dps.there could however be a debate if these modules should be low/mid/high so ships such as the dominix, ishtar and eos don't get overpowered.supported"
"sorry to bust your bubble. ccp wants to kill drones. they havent gotten any love in ages and never will. ccp cant handle the lag so they just kill them off pice by pice. remember the sleeper ai ? start training for amarr ships like any good gallente pod pilot. btw i still support it. but ccp will never do it."
"cap pilots who lose their ships to sub cap ships that take ages to kill them deserve to have the **** taken out of them by their corpies. post kms so we can ripp the **** out of them."
"the epeen factor is no doubt often in play, however there are some people who make a business out of destroying ships, and i think this would be a fair concession to that crowd to allow for better verifiable record-keeping. just because they didn't lay the final blow, it doesn't mean they weren't an instrumental factor in the destruction of the ship. how is that different from just destroying that alt's ship under the current mechanics? gaming the killmail system like that is already possible, and also extremely stupid.i think we all know that it's possible to parse combat logs for useful information. the issue here is whether to add a mechanic to expedite the process somewhat. obviously, we're fine without it, it probably won't happen, and i don't really care one way or the other, but i don't think it's a bad idea."
"the whole point of self - destructing is to deny the aggressor a kill.not supported."
"miners can pop their own can to deny an approaching ore thief, mission runners can pop their own wrecks to deny a ninja salvager, popping your own ship to deny your attacker should also remain an option for consistency's sake.not supported./ben"
"ugh, what is wrong with you people and your obsession with killmails? if you don't get a killmail because some guy self-destructed, does that make the target any less dead?remove killmails from the game completely, they add nothing to the game and the threads full of little babies crying because they don't have a board entry to jerk off over will be glorious."
"this"
"agreed"
"/signed"
"i cannot tell you the number of times that i or my corpmates have launched a petition over something we consider important and not received even an initial response for a gm for close to a week and most times longer than a week.i am not suggest they have to solve the problem in 24 hours but there are plenty of businesses in this world that at least reply to their customers or acknowledge (and not with an auto-reply script) that the communication was received and they are working on and have an eta.i really think that ccp needs to take a look at their petition process and establish some slas around their communciation responses because this is absolutely horrifyingly terrible customer service i'm seeing in the last 6 months or more."
"not supported...every petition i've filed was answered in 48 hours or less."
"then you are in a minority.i am very happy to say that so am i, all the petitions i have filed have always been adressed within 2 business days.may i ask what category they were filed under?some types of petition are allocated far more of the workforces time than others leading to at times extreme delays before they are looked at let alone dealt with.in particular petitions concerning macro use and rmt receive what would appear to have an exceedingly long turnaround; whether due to volume or low allocation of resources who can say...further as past (some very recent) events have shown, the petitions system is far from ideal with a number being lost or simply not addressed beyond being assigned to someone; the multiple petitions regarding the bug that made the moon mining exploit possible spring to mind.edit: something to bear in mind is that eve is expanding rather quicker than it has in the past. more new player abusing the petitions system unwillingly or otherwise causes issues."
"the only petitions i've ever gotten decent reply times on are isk spammers, which usually get processed inside 10 minutes. i put in one for close to a week of skill training once, it took like 9 days to even hear back, and around two weeks to resolve it. it's not as bad as some - i've heard of someone who took 3 years to get a t2 bpo back - but it's a while longer than anyone should have to wait. shortening the queues would be excellent, but even an automated \"this has been received, you can expect a response in about x days\" would be helpful."
"less then 48 hours drake is amazing you are a lucky guy. i have waited 3 weeks before to hear back about lost implants, then another week to get them back not once but for two sets of implants after botched clone jumps. four weeks without your set of +4's is a long time, and sure i could just use other clones and put implants in them but i use those clones for combat implants."
"/me shrugsluck has nothing to do with it... i just approach problems a little differently.but i have serious doubts about the prolonged response times... and no i do not work for ccp nor do i worship them... i'd have done alot of things already... like fixing the graphics scar/hole/disgrace on the maelstrom battleship...the misaligned engine graphic on the prowler....etc..etc...i just accept the fact they are very busy and have much to do... i'm content giving them a week at most."
"this is a great idea....let's nerf npc corps even more! we already have the worst fleet system imaginable and the inability to erect poses. now you want to remove the ability to use a barge and to run level 4 missions?the only real advantage of npc corps is the ability to avoid wardecs. the reason most people choose this route is because the wardec system is so horrible as it is. i know the joy of being locked in a station that's heavily camped, so i choose the npc corp.also, what modifier would you give to those who are in an npc corp (due to quitting a corp or such) and who does have a barge? instant penalty with no real benefit?it might surprise you, but a lot of people stay in npc corps to help newer players get their feet wet without the newer players being used as meat shields. others want to play the game to relieve some stress after a hard day of work, and wardecs really dampen that.it's not the worst idea in the forums, but this idea is way down there. what, do pirates need more targets in high-sec for their e-peen?unsupported."
"it depressing to see how uninformed you are.the macro mission that are done are the courier mission in low sec, not something done in high sec.almost the only activity that the mission hub in low sec with qual +20 agents see is character running courier missions non stop. more than true macro they are money farmers where one player is using the autopilot to run several accounts at the same time, but i suppose that as a lot of people you don't make difference between the two.while i haven't directly witnessed it, from several posts in the forums macro mining in 0.0 alliance space is fairly common. and the players in the alliances turn the eyes away as it benefit them. your solution will not cure anything.high sec macro miners will form several corporation and if war decced they will switch characters around, never reforming the same corporation. so they will be still immune from wardecs without any possibility to petition them for switching corp (the exploit is reforming the same corporation, you are always free to leave a corp and join a different one). the only people bothered by your suggestion would be legitimate players.so a proposal born of ignorance e failed comprehension of game mechanics."
"may i recommend you pay a visit to any of the drone regions?and for lowsec mission runners, pay a visit to ingunn.when that's done, come back here and edit your post.other than that, they're a problem all right."
"killing macro missioners in lowsec is terrible because they drop nothing, kill your sec status and leave you an open target to any pirates coming by because you have to dedicate all your slots to tanking gate guns.being able to dec these people would be nothing but a good thing.also, boohoo, people are flying missions using autopilot? that's so stupid, they deserve to die.sadly, reading this thread, there's so many people a scared of basic game play mechanics within eve, it's kinda scary. how can any of you stay in this forum and post ideas to improve the game if all you do is stay in the noob corp?"
"early in the days of eve, missiles would hit any object (object being stations, stargets, ships, pods, etc.) in the \"linfe-of-fire\" of target.in the early days this scenario shows how missiles would simply hit the object inbetween.raven ->>> object ->>> target.some time afterwards, missiles would avoid objects inbetween.................^>>>>>vraven ->>> object ->>> target.today missiles go straight through any object inbetween.raven ->>> o>b>j>e>c>t ->>> target.i want to know why this change happend and what means it was justified with. aswell as an explaination why this system can not be implented again to missiles aswell as turrets to fight off the ever increasing blob.this is just an idea and a request for a clarification of the issue. i am well aware of the concerns out there e.g. empire space neutrals in the way. this thread is not for that, this thread is for the initial and basic idea to start it all!if you agree that such system is good if implented correctly you should give support. if you do not believe that such system has a place in eve, even with the correct balancing is done than you should not vote.i believe this would totally change eve and create a whole new experience where game skills is much more required over a calculation spreadsheet.note for people without reading capability:this thread is only for the basic idea behind it. if all the balancing issues given etc. server performace, griefing etc. would be dealt would this be a good idea? that is what i am asking aswell as wanting a clarification of the issue if it is even possible and why it was removed from missiles in the first place."
"this is a can of worms...the same question can be asked of someone crossing the path of my 8 1400mm carbine howitzers fireing off (freight train sized <laughs>) bullets that go straight through a corp mate and nail a frigate at 80km....don't go there man... you'll get flamed to hell and back.:)"
"yes true line of sight/ray tracing would renovate combat in this game. for one thing we would actually have a truly tactical environment. maybe in 2020 when eve congruent parallel universe edition is released ccp will have a client and servers capable of supporting it."
"too server intensive, too wrecking of current tactics, and not enough payoff. interesting to consider, but not a good idea."
"of your arguments, i find that number two really doesn't hold any water. every patch ccp releases (or at least so it seems) invalidates some tactic or another. good players adapt, bad ones adapt after they've been podded a time or two.that aside, i agree with your other two points. the problems it would cause in terms of lag (especially in large battles when you would need to check the position of every ship against every piece of ordinance) would be unfathomable."
"would be a logistical nightmare....corpie a and b decide to test out there shipscorpie a sits off at 80 km with jump gate between him and ba fires off a round of his cannons... @ bc jumps in and gets nailed with 2000 dps and loses his shuttle...:)"
"edited for lulz"
"which leads to rampant rage and complaints saying they where unjustly concorded and all that crap.so yeah... bad idea."
"it's a minor point, of course(the lag is the big one), but i'll address it anyways. basically, pvp in eve is complex, and there's a lot of things you have to keep track of. generally, i dislike adding more to that - this is why i oppose joystick control, for example. needing to spread your fleet out wider in order to avoid friendly fire is an intense annoyance in a game that isn't a flight sim and doesn't want to be, and the sheer volume of random concordokens that this would produce is also a massively bad thing."
"cant help but say that it would be utterly hilarious.... right up to the point where i get taken out by cross fire."
"did you read it? this post is about the idea, not on how it would be balanced. of course such thing you speak of would not happen.again, how do you know that this is server intensive? how do you know that the servers would not hold it? what do you base your response from?how do you know that? it has already been in the game!again, how do you know how this will effect server performance? who are you to judge? as i said before, this has already been in the game before!yes and no. the post is about the idea and not about all the issues behind it. the issues would of course be worked over, so do not try to create a problem out of nothing.how is it a bad thing to make eve more immerse? what don't you get about the idea rather than focusing on the problems? if this idea could be implented (like it was before for missiles) without concorddokken and \"unfriendly fire\" just loss of damage, would it be bad?i am not here to try and balance the idea. this is just to get a response why ccp took it out of the game in the first place and why the idea has not been implented again because frankly, it is a good idea no matter how dangerous it would be. if i know ccp correctly, it would not really have any impact on empire space anyway."
"yes it is a good idea, yes it should be added, no not now, too server intensive.common knowledge? and missiles is one thing, they are just objects like ships, and at every iteration it can check if the missile is inside something. but now you also need to add for every shot fired a check if it has a clear line of fire, and what it will hit."
"if line of sight was reintroduced i would make it my mission to infiltrate highsec missions and get in the way of their guns so they get concordokken'd.fun times ahead of this."
"hmmm still looking accassionally for responces from delegates with some balls to bring this up 'oh wait'"
"i agree, great idea"
"while i have serious doubt you can stop them alltogether, ccp needs to act. the only acting they do now is remove and/or lock any thread regarding bots. even if the thread gives simple advice on how to combat bots and does nothing else. like this one"
"supporting, first of all becuz i think the bot problem should be looked into, rather then ignored. second of all becuz i think there's something fishy with closing and erasing every thread that talks about them."
"well golly gee..you got it skills? that'll shut everyone up, good job.sorry to break it to you but half of eve player base works in it/engineering/dev.i support this because i want to hear more quality drake trolling."
"you can read... good for you... hope that works out for you."
"time to act ccp. against the botters that is, not against threads that mention them."
"edit: 13 june 2009 : reduced level time & skill reqreduce jump clone timer to 20 hours (easiest option)or add a skill to reduce timerskill name : advanced infomorph psychologycategory : scienceskill rank : 5prerequisites : - infomorph psychology iv- science ivdescription : psychological training that further strengthens the pilot's mental tenacity to withstand the mental trauma of having one's consciousness detached from one's physical form, scattered across the galaxy and then placed in a vat-grown clone resulting in a reduced recovery period.result : reduces jump clone recuperation interval by 45 minutes per levelprimary skill : memorysecondary skill : willpowerproposition objective : synchronise play time to jump clone timer for those how have fairly defined play time. resubmission of original locked thread from previous csm :"
"not supported for the billionth trillionth time."
"and not supported again, one more time than that."
"eve is small enough already."
"not supported as it would make moving around way too easy.if you need to get somewhere fast from 0.0 to empire or otherwise i suggest you use a capital, and this costs money using a jumpclone doesn't.i would however potentially support a decrease in jumptime when using a jump clone towards a clone vat bay with a mothership or rorqual as these are supposed to be used for operations and to decrease the logistical trouble with getting out again once your done."
"how many more people going to post on this?! no more!! we don't need it. no, no no!--isaac"
"not sure weather you are proposing the ideas above or ridiculing them. but i rather like the suggestion of being unable to tackle super caps without a focused point and i don't think its care bear at all."
"currently, the helios is the only covert ops which does not have 3 high slots. this makes it unable to utilize all 3 bonuses at once (cyno, probes, cloak). the 3 other covert ops all have 3 high slots yet the helios is left disabled. instead it gets another low/mid slot. i propose removing a mid slot or a low slot and adding a high slot to the helios so it can be used in it's intended role like the other covert ops."
"ive no idea if this or similar has been posted befor, if it has then just ignor :)imo eve universe needs a massive expansion due to the large number of players nowdays, and not just opening up a region or adding wormhoes etc, the map needs to be at least double its current size but ideally 3x the size.ok up for discussion or flaming"
"i agree the eve universe is too crowded and has lost its original wow factor with regards to size."
"definitely needs a boost."
"thumbs up!"
"ccccccc"
"that man speaks the truth."
"no, no, no, no. make the space we have usable first - fix sovereignty, let 0.0 systems support more than three players per, and see how that all shakes out. if, and only if, more is still needed at that point, then we can try to get it added. until then, work to fix the problem instead of working to make it bigger."
"def needs a boost. two years ago eve was a fun place, 25k max online, more or less the same space. 55k players now...."
"make it bigger !"
"im unsure if anyone is aware of this, well i am becuase it just happened to me earlier today.unanchoring my research pos for an upcoming war dec and the wt happens to warp in and wait for the remainder of the 4 minutes and then manages to pinch it before me (becuase he had a friend in an mwd osprey to ram me off the damn thing).thats not the issue, the issue is the fact he never got flagged to me or any of my corpies for what i would say was, stealing, just like flippin' someones can.i think this needs to be fixed and that it counts as an act of aggression towards the holder of whichever it is he is unanchoring.(as far as i know, pinching unanchored gsc flags the theif, so why isent this the same?)"
"oh and yeah, support my own thingie(and yes i did get owned :d)"
"technically, the items were in open space and unanchored, so while what he did was repugnant, it wasn't stealing. it's like leaving drones out, as you should've had enough time to grab the item before being bumped.next time, if you see somebody like that hovering off your port bow waiting for the right opportunity, have the option open quick or just stop the unanchoring and wait for a better time."
"pretty much that.--isaac"
"i't very easy not to get your pos stolen:1. take a cloaked ship to not draw attention.2. take that cloaked ship and got sit at about 160 km from the unachoring pos.3. when the timer is round at about 1 min you align and warp when there is about 45 seconds on the clock.4. you got your pos and you win the pos unachoring game.as long as you play it smart you won't have any problems, especially in a crowded system."
"so jetting something that is lets just say 800mil, someone grabs it and doesent get flagged, thats not an issue? you guys think its just free becuae its lying out in space?when you right click and show info it even tells you who and what corp it belongs to.and even if i do warp in cloaky and land there 3 seconds before it finishes, its still going to have to be a speed game which is just unfair (yes life is unfair, dont give me that crap)its like dropping money in the street, you dont have to throw urself to the floor asap before someone else grabs it, and if they did its stealin' so i'd knock him out"
"eve is a pretty harsh place.... if your going to take equipment down... you best have backup."
"the problem though is that you can't kill anyone if they scoop up your pos unless your in low-sec. which seems silly as when you shoot at somebody who stole a pos from your corporation you get concord on your ass for doing so and stealing loot which is a much more petty crime is apparently worth a flag. so bringing backup in high-sec other than to bump the other people off the pos is not going to happen.on the other hand it's your own responsibility and you should be paying attention when un-anchoring a pos.could do with a temporarily flag for high-sec so repercussion can be taken but that can be debated."
"yeah... i'm surprised that in high sec you don't get aggro for the guy stealing your equipment.if anything at a minimum you should be able to return fire for said action much like a can tipper.and for those who would go ballistic over such a concept... think before you speak please.multi-million isk object get's swiped is not your typical scenario for baiting."
"ever try keeping the tower online while unanchoring stuff around it? this way you only risk losing the tower itself if someone tries to do this...and just cancel the unanchoring if someone sits close to you to try and scoop it."
"proposal: a specialized 'lite' version of the client aimed at traders and industrialistsor to be specific, that ccp develops one. my apologies if user made content of this specific nature already exists, capable of creating and modifying market orders and what is discussed below; i have yet to find such.i have read with interest pleas for remote skill changing via mobile devices like the i phone in the past, and even via text messages from a mobile.that ccp has experience managing multiple versions of a client is a matter of fact. the technology exists to implement such software, does the desire for it?features:when 'logged in' players do not have access to chat windows, they count as having 'blocked' all potential incoming convo's and a symbol denotes them in local as using the remote/lite client. alternatively full chat use could be available, but might not be possible on handheld devices.limited offline functionality- one can setup an array of instructions such modifying a number of market buy and sell orders based on cached data. on next connection existing market orders will be updated minimal graphical interface supporting use on laptops without a dedicated aftermarket graphics card and support for mobile devices such as the i phone. the environment is limited to that of a station, the app. need not have high spec. system requirements. the market and contracts interface is text based, items and ships will not necessarily require graphics at all.support for jump cloning; not the creation of jumpclones but the ability to jc from one to another, providing the destination is in an npc station or an outpost.the ability to view and utilize the markets tab with the same functionality as the full client.full use of the contracts system; trade windows and the 'give isk' sub menu option not implemented due to inherent security issues with mobile devices.ability to view and manage the personal hangars of whichever station environment the player is currently in; stacking, reprocess, repackage etc...use of the manufacturing and research tab with the same functionality as the full client: please note no support for the use of pos suggested due to the issues this presents regarding conflict between a basic, limitedly functional version of the client and the full client that might occur in space or within pos shields.corporation management interface not supported; partly due to aforementioned security issues, partly due to the nature of the current system likely being unsuited to a handheld device.there is no doubt the project proposed here would be a significant one for ccp and fraught with issues and technical difficulties. so is any game development, i don't see this as a reason to not attempt it."
"i have no doubt that this idea will go down faster than a shuttle getting scrammed then subsequently podded in the rancer system.not supported..."
"if you would be kind enough to elaborate you can contact this character by evemail until the 14th, after which ransomlist@gmail.com is a suitable contact point."
"interesting proposal, but i'd wager ccp will consider it far too much work(both up front and in client maintenance) for too little payoff."
"allright... trolling aside ill break it down for you:1: this allows the so called macro marketing and crap to get completely out of hand by allowing them to interact with the game without the game so to speak.2: this allows people to farm characters more easily3: use your worst imagination.4:5:6:...don't get me wrong... i'd like to have those nice features being an iphone dude myself... but the game is populated by jerks who love to expoit... abuse... and take over.ccp is not about to open the flood gates for a problem already being screamed over.so yes... good idea... but not likely to happen due to severe abuse."
"macros are already pervasive.its a case of trying to put out your burning house with an eggcup of water, realizing its not your house burning but throwing the water on your house just in case. later your house burns down as do all those near the original, because your eggcup of water was the deciding factor in stopping the original fire.i'm all in favor of anti macro measures- where they would be effective.the fact is, eve is an easy game to macro. those that macro don't need a 'lite' client version to do it.i don't believe introduction of such would lead to macro market bot use being the norm rather than the exception, due to the simple fact that macro'ing is already so easy.giving traders convenient, portable access to the eve market wont increase macro use either- these bots are run 23/7 in any case, from someones desktop."
"this is where i come in and call you a macro user/marketer/miner.(now where tit for tat on you calling me an alt poster :p )and i already know your not.... which is the point.anyway.... your assuming that the average joe knows how to macro... what you call easy may not necessarily be easy in itself.such a client would make it worse by sheer ease of convenience and use.most newbs and other people who want to get started will bypass the messieness of macro'ing and just use the lite client instead.this would also legitimatize said actions and macro'ing under the guise of the lite client.that... is a very nasty precedent."
"i'm not sure if you are trying to say that 'newbs' will use the lite client instead of macroing, or not?and suggesting that people using a lite client for market use somehow legitimizes macro use?"
"good lord rajere, enough is enough. ccp will ban you. as per blob argument, i don't believe this will enhance all that much considering that blobbing right now does it anyway. --isaac"
"it may not be that big of a boost to a blob but its death to a solo player. if i'm playing in my bs solo, i engage another bs, and he ends up having a neutral guardian or something to assist him, i will die. this would be a boost to people that bring backup and a nerf to the few remaining people that like to fight alone.capitals playing undock-dock in low-sec is a problem, but you can make a change to the capital ships only and not ruin the game for the rest of us."
"then don't engage the enemy battleship. the point is not that your losing your re-dock... the point is... if you open fire... your going to be expected to finish the fight.period."
"i take it op is one of drakes alts.in any case, i cant support the issue on account of the incitement to blob.however valued i might find the idea in principle."
"now should i take that as a compliment or as an insult? can't figure out.i never post in assembly hall with an alt... in fact i'm against such things.people who post here with alts should be banned from doing so in the first place... but that's just me."
"why should the person that is getting ganked be expected to \"finish the fight\" when the person he started fighting isn't the only person in the fight anymore? the only way i would accept being expected to finish the fight is if the other guy has to finish the fight as it began and not call in additional help. if i could slug it out with another battleship and no one could interfere or leave the fight before its over, i would be all for it, but what you propose would simply make it so that the player that fights alone is far more vulnerable to the player that always brings backup. this change is a boost to the blob because with a 60 second timer it is possible to check local and engage with confidence that if its a trap you have at least some chance of getting out alive. if the ability to dock is removed then the gankers can bring their blob in from even a couple jumps out and you can't do anything but sit there and wait to die."
"neither, its not a personal matter or issue.i think the idea is sound in principle but not execution.why you would consider that a compliment i'm not sure."
"i don't know the op well enough to know that either."
"who said fights would ever be 1 on 1 or fair? hell that was what i was screamed at when i learned what war-dec's are all about.it's never going to be fair... but fairness is not the issue.the issue is that you got a lot of people who use the station as a convenient shield that is not meant to be a shield.if you also note that this special \"exploit\" i would call it is not being taken away from people who choose to not engage there targets.its only for those who do engage...you can't help someone throwing in a blob.... backup... or a nuet pilot repping your war target.this is not a perfect fix... its an temp fix until ccp sorts out a better solution.better for the fight to end sooner anyway... means we can get on with our lives a little quicker... win or lose."
"i don't think you understand the meaning of \"exploit\" if you think dropping aggression and docking is an example of one. and you obviously can't grasp that changing the docking mechanics like the op proposes will promote fielding larger gangs. fortunately, ccp has a better idea of what the game should be."
"it'd be wonderful to be able to check contracts not having to log on each time!bump for adding contracts to the api functionalities!"
"yup, this would be great."
"supported."
"i already raised this to ccp."
"i hate this damned forum software."
"currently, when blueprints are moved to another npc station, unlocking/locking them down again once they are moved requires a corp vote for each bpo. when there are hundreds of these it is tedious and amounts to a ton of spam for shareholders.proposal: let any number of blueprints be locked down in a single action, so that shareholders only need to vote once and only receive one mail."
"this, i like. signed."
"more dots!but yes, make it consistent."
"just because you don't have a point doesn't mean the rest of cant."
"i don't even need a point"
"well to be exact, meta threads and threads that are just plain terrible get reported and then trolled to death so the errant mod has a reason to lock them."
"when i was in the csm, i worked 8 hours a day 5 days a week (sometimes 6), and still devoted about an hour to the issues brought forward in ah and for the next meeting. i also devoted some time to speaking to my constituents while in the game (one reason why i got a lot of ice mining done during my term :).meetings held a special priority, and on weeks when we did have one, i would say 15+ hours easily was spent during the week examining the issues and getting the public opinion before the meeting took place. serving on the csm is a volunteer position with a few perks, but it does require a serious commitment to improving the game of eve and listening to the voters. it may be different with those in major alliances, but i feel they still had to put forward a lot of effort (with few exceptions, a la pattern clark).i hope this answers your question sufficiently."
"hey guys,i served on the last term of the csm, and i feel we did get some attention to fw done. i'll admit that the fw issues tanked in this last meeting, but it was partially due to bad proposals of the issues.ccp seem to be in the opinion of fixing one major topic per patch while adding some new content, and i think this is the way to go. scanning was revamped in apocrypha, and 0.0 sovereignty will be revamped soon (tm). mining and corporate management need a fix about as much as fw does, so there is hope for an eventual recreation of the activity.please note: i do not participate in fw, but i understand it's importance and how integral it is to the success of eve. some things did surprise me about this last meeting, but if you want more people interested in fw, get to know the candidates then use the power of the vote."
"really should go back to some of the first topics regarding fw and the csm. ccp was getting feedback on fw before it even hit singularity (the rp community was watching its development closely)."
"please, bring us back the old animation.the new one is ..."
"support"
"yes."
"nope don't support this"
"edit: the only downside i see concern about is rewarding suicide gankers. i don't think this helps them much. in fact, it may drive them nuts. so you're flagged to the suicide ganker... so you run away giggling with his loot while has to go get another ship. you wait out the timer, or come out with something that can kill him. worst thing you can do to them imho"
"this thread started out as a request to update graphics, but also sneak some functionality upgrades in. and then went off on several tangents.i see three main groups, and they've all posted.we've heard from the \"it makes my computer slow\" people, the \"it looks too ugly\" people, and the \"new functionality, not just graphics\" group.would someone please delete this thread and start two new ones? i'd be happy to sign the new \"functionality\" thread, although i've personally set up 5 poss and my wish list only has on it: powergrid booster modules, cpu booster modules, and silos that can be accessed without being offlined.i won't sign the graphic petition because i don't really care what they look like."
"signed 100%"
"signed."
"bump"
"we need a ship that is middle line between an itty v and a freighter, 200-500k.it has to be faster than freighter ofc, and better let us be able to modify it as in more cargo space = muuuuuch slower, so if i want it to haul just 150k it'll be relatively fast, if i put it up to 500k it'll be much slower.cargo expanders do that job tbh."
"supported."
"supported, and i hope that to fix them will not require another couple of years."
"signed."
"yep, i agree with op."
"agree. now if only we could think of something that would redeem procurer..."
"signed.but keep in mind you need to give the retriever a small advantage still, cba think of one."
"signed"
"i agree"
"zthis"
"the eve wiki ("
"signed.i would like to add that planets should be the resources for people, because they naturally are!however, not all planets have living conditions in which people can live, so some planets in empire would be constantly producing people, you \"hire\" these people and train them the way you want under your alliance, you decide how many to train for marines, how many janitors, how many workers....etc.btw, what would you do with gas planets? you can't land on these, and there are many of them."
"the problem:for most small alliance/corporations who live in a pos in space the ship maintenance array and the corporate hangar arrays are the only way to store ships and modules atm.however with these structures comes that everything is shared by every corp member (especially the sma) through roles. which means that any corp member can access any ship which is in an sma if they have the roles, which is most likely if the entire alliance/corp is living in pos's.this means that if a corp/alliance member decides to steal a ship or module there is zero evidence of that unless somebody actually saw it, which is where the problem lies and my suggestion takes place.my suggestion:to counter or give the corp some added internal security make the sma's and cha's have logs which shows which objects (and name of it) have been moved out of the sma/cha by which member.now to make sure the server doesn't get too much strain the log would only show the activity of the last 7 or 14 days, which can only be viewed by directors or anyone with the pos master role.this still keeps the option open for anyone who wants to steal from said corporation/alliance but gives the directors a counter as to remove the roles from the person and make them kos if needed. any support and criticism is welcome.tl;dr: give the ship maintenance array and corporate hangar array logs which show activity of the last 7 or 14 days."
"corporate security mechanics suck in general, but i can see how this is worse than others for corps like yours. it should be an option, but i can support this."
"sure.. supported... with the disclaimer that people should be more careful with with who they recruit."
"not sure how the db guys would like this, but heh.i'd take another angle. eve's supposed to be an online soap opera, and the treshold is already being lowered enough :/instead of making this a change across the board, add audit types of these structures. much more expensive, which figures since they are more \"nifty\", which would still allow for cheapskates getting robbed and such, but it would provide that which those who are willing to invest: audit functionality."
"signing for the eventual take over of the amarr empire by the veldfleet"
"i approve of this petition to move the veldatar to high sec."
"chiribba has proven that he's not stupid enough to get it taken away from him if it's allowed in highsec. i approve."
"supported."
"i'll raise this next csm meeting."
"signed"
"good idea"
"just because someone could inject a ton of skillbooks they don't have the ability to train yet, i find it hard to call that 'abuse'. the same person can buy all those skillbooks and put them in a hanger as well, and there is no effective difference, other than more convenience. honestly, i don't see what unfair advantage this would provide to someone, other than removing a cumbersome, non-essential step from the process. implementing the 'has to have pre-reqs already training' is pointless, and potentially even more confusing."
"/signed"
"not supportedit would lessen empire <--> 0.0 movement.people need to carry skillbooks in their cargohold from empire to 0.0 or they will just pod-jump (pod self-destruct) to empire from low-sec/0.0, inject all skills and pod themselves back to 0.0, which eliminates risk associated with living in 0.0, being an outlaw and stuff."
"only the impatient move skillbooks around from empire to 0.0 by flight.you've got capitals to move them around in safety or you can just wait a few days and then train that skill by going to empire and injecting them there.the thing is if you have like 11 hours left until you can do the skill it is a real annoyance that you need to go back later if you are needed back down in nul-sec.plus do you really thing being able to queue the skill within a 24 hour time frame is going to kill all skillbook transportation?"
"keep in mind... this is not about open free reign injection of skill books.... this is strictly within the 24 hour queue time frame. this will not disrupt skill book transport..."
"this version makes sense to me.pre-injection into the skill queue -- but only if you cannot alter the skill queue afterwards without losing the skill."
"why so focused on the injection part? the point is to have training continue:the following skill isn't injected until the prereqs are fully skilled but you can still queue it before that time. when the prereqs are met and the skill is next in queue, the system checks the cargo hold and the station hangar for a copy of the skill bookorlimited slots for premature skill injection. for instance, you can load 3 skills into your brain before all prereqs are met. you can switch them at any point in time. kinda like modules slots on a ship (as opposed to rig slots)"
"pros:one can see how much damage a podding caused.cons:one can see your l33t (or lame) implant \"setup\"either way, this gives a closer appreciation of the damage done to someone, as the implants frequently cost more than the ship that was flown."
"supported.there is no real justification i can think of to allow killmails for ships but not pods.would be a boon to merc corps and 'assassination' contracts"
"i always wanted this too."
"i've been waiting for this one for a long time./ben"
"as the purpose of a killmail is to record kills and losses, implants simply must be included in the picture. as the op mentioned they're often worth a lot more than a ship."
"you're doing it wrong! pods don't have implants, the corpse has and most are too lazy to scoop it. no support.scoop the corpse and reverse engineer it and you may get some implant salvage. :-)"
"im reallllly reluctant to say yes.... and i'm not so eager to say no.this would set an precedent that ccp declared long ago... no cyno'ing in high sec other than the empire doing its nice little light show (refer to movies hehe)it's too easy to sneak around and such... if your going to propose anything to do with blackops... give the black ops battleships longer range... id rather say yes to that... or covert ops cloak."
"i think it is good idea, you have my support."
"sounds like a nice addition for the high sec wars so go for it."
"could you remind us what distance the covert jump portal allows, so we know what we're talking about?as indication of jump distances.jita->rens = 13 light yearsjita->oursulaert = 12.5 lyamarr->rens = 13 lyamarr->oursulaert = 8.4 lywith the current range of black ops jump portal (which, unless i'm wrong, is only 2 aus), it should be more hassle than it's worth.if the range of black ops jump portal was to be extended, this could be a problem. anything that makes hauling faster/easier/safer \"kills\" local markets.faction navies can be tanked and/or killed.you can't justify breaking something because it can be broken through another way. i believe the csm already requested ccp change that mechanism too... (if you're refering to -10.0 ganking people in highsec by traveling in pods and jumping into ships at an orca or through an alt ejecting from his ship).one unvoiced concern is the impact on fw.i'm not entirely sure where i stand on this issue so far, so i'll be reading this thread :p"
"re meissa: jump range on a widow is 2ly, meaning 4.5ly with jump drive calibration 5.at max skills you could do amarr-oursulaert in 2 jumps, and the others in 3 jumps (requiring 2 or 3 covert cyno characters for a one way route, or 3 or 4 for a two way route). amarr-jita is 20ly and would require 5 jumps. keep in mind this is with jump drive calibration 5 (a 35-38 day skill), jdc4 or lower adds at least one extra jump to everything. this is one of the reasons i think this will not be widely (ab)used by traders.as far as outlaws go, i wasnt referring to pod hopping to an orca (a tactic i feel is legitimate and does not require changing). i was referring to redsplats comment about simply flying battlecruisers and smaller through high sec gates, despite faction navy aggro. and while you state that faction navies can be tanked (which is true), can they be tanked in a stealthbomber or force recon? i doubt it. and being an outlaw in high sec disables your cloak, so that severely limits the effectiveness of outlaw sb/recon gangs in high sec."
"it's seriously that far between the hubs? i thought a lot of them were closer to each other. assuming there are no plans to change the jump bridge range any time soon, i might actually be able to support this."
"i'll support this, it might at last make it worthwhile to get a black ops ship."
"i'd like to see blackops get some more use, and maybe high-sec wars could be a possibility for them.i can't see many people devoting to effort to have multiple cyno alts (all with cft v for covert portals), a black-ops alt, and a transport alt just to move some items from one hub to another. at that point, he could just get a few alt-freighter pilots and autopilot them wherever he wants with a lot less effort, and a lot more impact on the market."
"/signed"
"supporting this."
"supported"
"sounds good to me."
"great idea."
"faction navies instapop stealthbombers.if the stealthbomber pilot has terrible skills or an idiotic fit he might not even make it off gate alive. if lag is involved it can be a dicey proposal.not to mention the random players the thieve killmails by point outlaws in highsec.a force recon cant realistically tank faction navy spawns. even insane passive shield regen fits cant manage it due to volley dps from the bs.again, other players come into account as you are essentially helpless in any ship in highsec as an outlaw.faction navy spawns can be tanked in carefully tailored rr bs and cs gangs; and in theory in crystal set, blue pill officer/ faction hardener, deadspace shield booster fit maelstroms as well. it takes coordination, skill and investment of isk to do so- for no gain.as the faction navy cheats, once you load grid in empire and get pointed by the faction navy if you cant burn to a gate or station you are assured death eventually.i should like to make a point of stating again; not that i think you neccesarily dissagree.having outlaws in highsec is a total non issue. let alone as a result of covert cynos, with them arriving in hideously expensive deathtraps that cant cloak!"
"our minmitar militia fleet of 40 players engaged the amarr fleet at the kamela gate in kourmonen at 22:42 06.13.2009. the lag was so horrid that the grid never fully loaded. i had all effects off. only eve voice was on (no audio effects) and all brackets were off. still the grid would not finish loading. i could hear our fc calling targets through eve voice. i could not target anything. i could not move my ship. i could not warp to another gate.game log from jumping into kourmonen:------------------------------------------------------------ gamelog listener: chebri session started: 2009.06.13 22:36:50------------------------------------------------------------[ 2009.06.13 22:41:53 ] (notify) target is invulnerable.[ 2009.06.13 22:41:58 ] (notify) drake has just left kamela as of ago[ 2009.06.13 22:42:25 ] (none) jumping to stargate (kamela) in kourmonen solarsystemthere are no contents in the log file created after the jump...------------------------------------------------------------ gamelog listener: chebri session started: 2009.06.13 22:42:31------------------------------------------------------------after several minutes i finally used the process manager in windows to close the eve client.game log after relog:------------------------------------------------------------ gamelog listener: chebri session started: 2009.06.13 22:50:21------------------------------------------------------------[ 2009.06.13 22:51:15 ] (notify) warping to stargate (auga)[ 2009.06.13 22:52:13 ] (none) jumping to stargate (kourmonen) in auga solarsystemloss mail:2009.06.13 22:48:00victim: chebricorp: tribal liberation forcealliance: nonefaction: minmatar republicdestroyed: thrashersystem: kourmonensecurity: 0.4damage taken: 3017involved parties:name: glach duwat (laid the final blow)security: -1.5corp: gunship diplomacyalliance: nonefaction: amarr empireship: rifterweapon: 150mm light autocannon iidamage done: 2047name: rai arissecurity: 0.3corp: hive intergalacticalliance: nonefaction: amarr empireship: drakeweapon: hobgoblin idamage done: 948name: don pellegrinosecurity: -1.3corp: helljumpersalliance: nonefaction: amarr empireship: aresweapon: aresdamage done: 22destroyed items:250mm light artillery cannon i, qty: 3gyrostabilizer iemp s, qty: 60dropped items:small remote armor repair system i1mn microwarpdrive i250mm light artillery cannon i, qty: 4emp s, qty: 2939 (cargo)micro auxiliary power core iemp s, qty: 80target painter iwarp disruptor iapparently i sat in space for six minutes (22:42 - 22:48) unable to do anything to defend myself let alone target, fire a shot, move, etc. this is unacceptable. please allocate more resources to the militia combat zones. as it stands right now, any fleet engagement larger than 20 is completely pointless. i'd been logged in and running missions for several hours prior to this battle with no lag issues. there's no point in having a pvp mmo with such desync problems. one unhappy minmatar pilot-chebri"
"i agree faction war seems the poor relative in eve, and considering the isk sunk into it that seems rather unfair.i would like to see some realistic rewards, eg missions fixed.also the ability for individuals in corps to join militia,whilst remaining in corp.i agree with dohl it would be very nice to see some results."
"lag is but a myth.. that keeps happeningit makes perfect sense not to have big alliances join militia, it will be a huge mess not to mention massive amount of lag that would probably cripple eve at this time, alliances wouldn't stay in militiain fact perhaps the lag is there on purpose to stop big alliances coming into low security, think about it, all the money ccp makes, they could afford to make it lag freeanyway i totally agree with op, do something about it, especially lag, that cripples our fights"
"signed !"
"signed"
"agreed"
"agreed"
"signed"
"supported.a more specific request can always come later, even if it means waiting a year in hopes of electing a more sympathetic csm."
"signed.a request for action rather than information would be more appropriate but as the csm have been lax on passing fw issues we'll have to take what we get for now."
"the eos was overpowered, ok, but now it is simply useless.nobody fly it, nobody use information warfare modules.i say: change it so that it give bonuses to drones for example.or something useful at least."
"info warfare is fine*. the problem here was that the bandwidth nerf was applied stupidly to the eos and myrmidon. cut turrets if they do too much dps, not drones.* fine as a ship bonus, i mean. the gang links themselves need some love."
"supported.although i am not sure exactly what, something needs to be done to save this ship.i would definately favor a bandwidth increase ... with that, perhaps limit turrets to 4 of it's 7 highs?and, some bandwidth love for the myrmadon is also despirately needed."
"supprting a thread full of high quality dd trolling!come on dd, troll some more. tell us what sla means and how we don't have a clue. oh no, actually, just tell us that we don't have a clue, and that you work with it all the time, and that you know so much more about it without telling us what you know about it."
"heh,why not add priority support at a $5 charge per ticket, or for a plex to drive those prices up even more"
"don't be giving them ideas, now."
"i wouldnt mind penalizing players if thier petition is rejected as being a waste of developer time.i.e. something petitioned despite the issue being well documented, with someone asking for somethin contrary to documentation.10 million isk seems apropriate. would certainly cutdown on petition spam by people that cant be bothered to research something before they spam petition."
"your growin on me red :)this...."
"when saying \"lab\", i refer to labs and assembly arrays equally, the issues are identical.the current situation:- for a blueprint to be visible from the s&i or asset interface, it needs to be on the \"floor\" of a division in the corp hangar (not in cans) or the person needs to be less than 2500m from the lab- for an invention job to start, the division of lab in which the job is installed has to be seeded with the appropriate datacores, decryptors, meta-level items. only the bpc can be in station. copies also spawn in the lab.- for a manufacturing job to start, the division of the assembly in which the job is installed has to be seeded with the appropriate minerals, components, npc items, etc.the issues:- blueprints are not visible when they're in labs, except if the person sits less than 2500m from the lab, regardless the level of scientific networking skills. this means that the blueprints have to be in the corp hangar or that the inventor needs to be sitting at the pos permanently.- when running more than one lab for invention purposes, each lab has to be independantly seeded with datacores, decryptors and meta-level items. if one is to invent more than one item, it becomes a nightmare very fast to determine from the station which bp has to be invented in what lab. cans are not an option (can't start a job from them), sitting at the pos permanently with the bpcs in the labs is the only manageable/viable solution.- assembly arrays suffer from the same problem, manufacturing different items (especially with t2 or \"exotic\" t1) is extremely tedious as one is required to keep track of stock levels as a function of what jobs is going to be installed in what assembly. while it's not entirely problematic with single item production, it becomes one for multi-item production.- stations/outposts are not available everywhere in 0.0, producing at a pos in 0.0 therefore requires the manufacturer/inventor to stay on site all the time.- bpcs can't be stacked, leading to hangars littered by thousands of bpcs.proposed solutions:- make blueprints in labs/assemblies the user has access to visible from afar, according to the scientific networking skill, at least optionally- make labs \"pool\" resources through a corporate hangar array. if a lab is missing a datacore, decryptor or ml-item and one is available in the same division of an online corporate hangar array the installer has access to, the lab takes the resource from there. this behaviour could be made toggleable through a checkbox.possibly:- make bpcs with the same qualities (me/pe/number of runs) stackable.- make blueprints be launchable from cans (and can contents be visible from afar), if the bp has to be returned to the can and the can has moved (different parent container), drop the bp to either the floor of the hangar or the lab/assembly (with a notification on completion of the job)- make bpcs with the same qualities stackable (this may be difficult to code however)the changes this proposal would induce have basically no downside as they are additions to the existing paradigm and are either not going to change anything or are likely to cause more resources being present in labs as opposed to stations, should the user chose to make use of the extra feature."
"i certainly to agree that there needs to be some improvements in this regard. i, personaly, would like to see the ability to pull materials/bp's from any hanger/array at the pos. change the source and destination drop-down's to 2 each. one for hanger, and one for division. along with this, corp hangers would have to become nameable. these who changes would greatly reduce the mind numbing tedium that is pos based s&i."
"agree with op. would like to see an easier way of switching alts."
"yes"
"yes please, i alwasys wanted this too."
"yup"
"please."
"supported."
"yeah +1"
"uhm... doesn't that mean more database query and/or more lag?if that is the case, then, sry but: no.else, why not?"
"shouldnt be hard for database, it only needs to make calls when someone checks his kms, and that doesnt happen that often. would make it pretty hard to post kms though after larger fights (okay usually you can let api do it)."
"assuming it can be done without obnoxious lag, i'm for this. my combat log should be a log of my combat, not just a greatest hits collection."
"remove instantaneous transmission of killmails.implement what op suggests.killmails are then assigned every downtime, last for 3 days and then delete themselves.half supported"
"dear god yes."
"i'll give you the benefit of the doubt that you're not a computer programmer. if you were, you probably wouldn't be suggesting this.here's the short and dirty version.when you place an object on the grid, the server has to keep track of it - where it is, where it's going, how quickly it's moving, etc. this gets more complex when that object is a ship, because now the server also has to keep track of player input - did you change direction, speed, module status?currently, when a weapon gets fired, the server really only needs to know three things:a) what did you shoot at?b) when will the ammunition reach the target?c) did the ammunition hit the target?all three of these things can be determined when the shot is fired - what you see on the screen is just the visual representation of the intersection of those three answers (we're ignoring the fourth question, how much damage did it do). the point being, the server can do all of this very rapidly, because it only has to do it one time for each shot.to do what you are asking to do would require knowing the projectiles exact flight path through the grid, the exact time it will be at each point along the grid, and exactly where every other object on the grid will be at each of those times (to check for hits on unintended targets). this information would have to be recalculated every time a player on that grid does something that affects the speed or direction of their ship. indeed, it would have to be updated nearly constantly if you have a ship orbiting something else, since the direction of that ship would be changing constantly.and that's just for one shot. i dun know about you, but my hurricane has six cannon on it, and i rarely fire just one of them. now multiply that by the number of ships on the grid, and i hope you are beginning to get the point.frankly, i like the idea behind what you're trying to do - collateral damage is an interesting aspect to a war - but unless ccp invests in a couple (dozen) supercomputers i don't think it's going to happen."
"admiral did you read what we said or are you just trolling our responses?"
"that is true i guess. but does that mean that if there is a missile only fleet that the servers will lag a lot more due to missiles being objects?what kind of problem would it be to deal turrets as objects but with instant flight time?of course this would not be the case as damage would just negated instead of applied on empire target.are you a programmer thou?d) weapon usede) velocity, transversal velocity.f) signature radiusg) trackingh) signature resolutioni) shield, armor, hull resistanceetc. etc.the server already knows where the location of objects are in space. just take smartbombs and ecm burst and ramming other ships for example.i believe the server knows this information already.if you like the idea why do you not support it? it's not like ccp will implent it if it does not work? i just want a clarification on the issue given that it was implented on missiles before. not at all. i am trying to get good responses with thought behind instead of \"no it won't work because i say so\" comments.i want clarification of this from ccp given that they have had this system on missiles before. what was the reason for removal? was it due to balance etc.? is it possible to be added again? can turrets be treated as instant hitting objects since objects hitting eachother is already in the system?"
"there's so much unrealistic stuff in this game and you're worried about projectile collisions? :)not an issue as far as i see it."
"actually, yes. otherwise, i wouldn't have said that. most of the stuff you just listed only gets used once, in the calculation for hit/damage resolution. the server keeps track of it, yes, but it doesn't have to up date it unless there's player/ai input. and that's the key - there is a defined time when that information gets updated. unless and until that event happens, the server already has the values it needs and doesn't need to recalculate them. weapon used is a perfect example of that - the server already knows what weapons you have, all it really has to do is note which one you fired, and it can do that one time, when you click the module the first time. until you provide more input, it isn't going to bother checking it again.and h and i don't even apply to the discussion, since they are used after the determination of a hit or miss is made.i never said it didn't know where the ships were. ships, however, are not ammunition and that's what we're talking about.having it and having to recalculate it on a constant basis are very different things. one is a simple call to memory (or at worst, the database). the other requires the useage of cpu, which is how server utilization is measured. because i don't support ideas that i feel will break the game, regardless of whether i agree with the concept behind them or not. like ships versus ammunition, agreeing with your idea and supporting a change to the game are two very different things."
"perhaps the biggest embarrassment of all is that caod is - according to its own description - supposed to be an in-character forum. on those grounds alone you could ban everyone who's ever posted in there since the corp & alliances summit was merged with it.in any case, the internet is a big enough place for people to post rubbish elsewhere without bringing it to these forums. but unfortunately, too many people are incapable of controlling themselves, so it's up to ccp to control them instead. increased moderation is the only answer./ben"
"still an important issue. needs to be considered by the csm."
"your own trolling on caod raises questions. most importantly, i am asking myself whether this is just a further troll, or an attempt to silence people who you have personally betitled as mindless scum.whether or not it is the case, it still makes you a hypocrite. your holier than thou attitude is particularly sickening.a \"web of trust\"-alike might work for a site like slashdot. it will not, however, work in any way or form when individuals start forming alliances and coalitions.any system that can be manipulated by cooperating individuals will fail.this was and is already the case. had you posted a bob-critical post two years ago, there would have been swarms of angry fanboys mass-posting you into oblivion. the same applies today, just with switched sides. when you look at it, it comes down to the same mechanism you're describing in your post. no stars, lollies or pancakes are currently at work to filter caod, but the posts of individuals ripping apart any non-canon post.what this means for any self-moderating system is, that once a monopoly of one coalition is established, it will be impossible to break. what is particularly laughable is this:completely ignoring the fact that eve is a game of coalitions of alliances is so 2005..i can think of very simple attacks to mute any alliance or corporation of any size simply by coordinating your coalitions members.please don't make \"wars are won on the forums\" true. thank you."
"do the simple thing then ... give people filters for who / what they want to see. user choice, simple. don't want to see some player / corporation / alliance posts? fine, right click and add to filter list. want to see them again? go to settings and remove that selection."
"i dont remember mentioning any particular alliance no matter who or indeed what they are :) never ceases to amaze me that some people have to turn this in yet another its all about 'them' post tbh if the cap fits i suggest you help take it off them :pthis is about putting better controls and/or moderation on caod and it isnt politcal so stop defending your new found friends and look at the issue without the control blinkers put on you or with some degree try to see this from a neutral point of view,in other words grow a pair and stop being a sheep"
"this thread, i supportz it!"
"add sorting by meta level as an option to the hanger. example: meta 0-14, tech 2, tech 3, or in the reverse. anything with no meta level would default 0."
"supported"
"why? i do not understand, it seem really pointless. i never judge a module by its meta level, do you?"
"you ever tried to sort large quantities of mission loot? this would be a great mechanic."
"supporting. it's crazy that this hasn't been in the game from the start really."
"supported, should have been implemented years ago"
"supported. item management is something that eve really could improve, and this would be a nice start."
"agreed.this would be a great boon for the fleet salvagers who have to sort, sell, and refine at the end of the day."
"leave the helios as it is"
"the only fix the helios needs is a new skin like the old skin it had"
"all four covops get a cloak, a scan probe launcher, and a weapon. for the other three, that weapon is a gun, for the helios it's a drone. kind of annoying, when you want to do tricks with a covert cyno generator on a safe spot or some such nonsense, but it's the gallente way. it's fine."
"salvager, this is 3rd slot module :)"
"this.i support this thread btw, else explain why all covert ops but helios got 3 hi-slots."
"signed.helios does need a 3rd high slot.if they're worried it'll have too many then just take out 1 low-slot, although i really don't think that's necessary.keep the meds though."
"disagree - this is a buff. you see it, and its uglyassedness reminds you that your cloaking device is off."
"agreed, removed the drone and a midslotgood compromise"
"more space to roam about is always nice."
"step 1: go to star mapstep 2: change statistics to player population type stats.step 3: note the dark areas in 0.0seriously... are you really that claustrophobic? i'm all for expansions... but its not that desperate."
"could the game use more systems? kind of, in high-sec where players cluster around certain key points but are well distributed all over. in other regions, no.low-sec is big enough, but most players don't go there due to the reputation it has. for it to be used more, certain aspects of the game would need to be changed to help change that rep, or mechanics involved that would attract the main audience of eve.null-sec is big enough, but it needs to be worth holding. ccp is currently working on this, and while i can't go into detail, i can say that they have some great ideas on it. you can find more information on the csm meeting minutes.this game was made a bit smaller through the inclusion of jump bridges, jump freighters, and such, but it is still big enough to explore. ccp has enough on their hands fixing the problems that eve currently has without having to double or triple the number of systems in the game - and would that really change anything? choice systems will always be swarmed to (in high-sec) or fought over (in null-sec).breathe new life into the game, ccp, as you already have done with scanning and will soon do with sovereignty. else, we will have a lot more of the same rather than a new universe. unsupported."
"this is why i don't think we need bigger space. just let ccp come with a fix for current sov system first before epanding."
"having more places to visit in each system would greatly expand space without adding more systems.some optionsmake some changes to the space around planets and moons so that the entire orbit around a celestial body is useable and more facilities.add a same system npc item delivery for a small fee, so that not everyone has to dock at the same station to do business.let people finally access agents remotely in the same system, so they can mission run from any of the stations in system and just from a single one. extend the asteroid belts to be more like ice belts and then extend them again a few more times, so that they are a couple thousand km long.add some other bodies, such as comets, gas clouds, ship grave yards etc that fool scanners and give people a place to hid without cloaks."
"i dont remember average concurent users figure when i started playing it eve,but it was considerably lower than what we got today.also travelling felt longer because there was no jump-to-zero.in that time only the drone regions got added to the game, and i believe somesystems came with factional warefare."
"no it doesn't. it needs more content in the systems it already has because despite the large number of players, there is still a ton of empty space, highsec, lowsec and 0.0."
"yah but thats how its supposed to be. universe == alot of empty space."
"people think that the universe is small 'cause they live in overcrowded highsec systems.create incentives to leave highsec and suddenly the game is huge and unknowable again."
"agree.we need to make more space for smaller alliances too, and change the sov mechanics at the same time to make it more interesting."
"i say more and more space!!!! make low security systems become high security systems.....you know governments expand with population and that requires more police. so yeah make some of the current low security systems high security systems, so that the new systems or new regions created by ccp would become the new low security systems. i think this is a great balance to expand the universe of eve"
"hi.current situation: you cannot make a single t3 setup with locus analyzer subsystem which can work for exploration, it needs at least 2 extra high slots and 2 extra middle slots!it also needs a lot more calibration points to be able to fit a rig for mods since it doesn't get bonus to hacking/analyzing/salvaging, or switch the tractor beams bonus into one of these.seriously, ccp stop putting half arsed products and say you'll fix it sometime!.difference between exploration ship and normal one is that you need the following extra:high slots:1x scan probe lanucher1x cov ops cloak1x salvager1x tractor beam (to make use of the bonus!)and in the mids:1x code breaker1x analyzeri am not asking to make a wtfpwn exploration ship, but the setup needs to be at least viable, i couldn't make a single t3 setup that can fit covops cloak and probe launcher without losing a turret or launcher, let alone salvager and tractor beam.you also need more calibration points since you cannot if we're going to use t3 we need to know that we'll be able to fit it in the first place.this is a rather urgent issue with t3 patch coming in the near future."
"stop trying to fit a tractor, and possibly a salvager depending on what sites you run, and it's fine. you can fairly easily fit a tengu with four missiles, a probe launcher, a cocd, all three exploration modules, and a 402 dps tank if you fit it with the sort of gear a tengu deserves. it's not as capable as a drake, but it warps cloaked, skips through bubble camps, scans like a covops, and is still capable of some combat. that doesn't seem like it needs a buff."
"stop talking like a dumb ass and get eft, yeah i can fit 4 missiles out of 5!!! why should i drop a missile launcher just to fit a salvager? and the dps will be under 200, the same for all other t3 ships.an ishtar can fit all these and be better, only problem is that it doesn't fly cloaked and no scan bonus! that is not what t3 is meant to be."
"i think you don't understand the idea of tradeoffs. if you want to warp cloaked and have a scan bonus you need to sacrifice. also if you really want that salvager you give up a high slot that you could have been using for something else. thats just how it works. 200dps and a 400 tank is not bad at all if you get to warp cloaked.t3 is not meant to be a solo pwnmobile for everything."
"t3 isn't supposed to be \"t2, but better\". if t3 could do everything that t2 can do, plus more, then it would be massively overpowered. if you want a ship that can fight like an ishtar, then get a ****ing ishtar."
"stealing an unanchored gsc itself doesn't flag you either and i think it follows the same mechanic. in my own opinion both actions should flag the person stealing.lacking a fix from ccp, i think the best thing for the defender to do is to set the wt's corp to hostile and check to see if any are in system. if so then don't unanchor the pos and just remove all the modules. they could have an alt not in their corp but it's less likely that the alt has a recon ship warping around cloaked to check your unanchoring timer. besides, all the expensive stuff is inside the shields anyway, losing a cruise missile launcher isn't a big deal. then you can log off and start the process later or at worst just leave the tower there.most pos killers in high sec are not going to spend a good while shooting an empty pos, no real gain past watching it blow up. the only people you really have to worry about are a group of people hired to hurt the pve alt of your pirating character for some past transgression. then they may blow up your pos tower just to meet the contract."
"as far as i am aware, you cant cancel something that being put online, offline, anchored or unanchored. so technically, if someone happens to warp in and you just happen to have click the unanchor button, all you have to do is sit there and wait for the guy with the fastest reaction to grab it, which isent fair, you dont pay for a cup of coffee, and when he puts it on the desk you gotta swipe it before the homeless guy slabberin over your shoulder does (yeah i know i use a lot of rl situations to prove my pointinfact tht one might depends on where you live lol)"
"and this happens to be a member of the corp who did such a horrible thing , but hey no hard feelings bro, not makin the post out of anger, just tryin to see if anyone else agree's of it being an issue and that and that it counts as an act of aggression, anc cheers for the hint that you had a cloaky scout watchin me"
"no worries, didn't take it that way, and i was serious in my agreement with your issue on game mechanics.while it is possible to calculate and assume that within a few seconds of the force field going down that the timer had started, yeah, i was watching you with a cloaked ship so i could know for sure."
"ideal loved the tactic, and i know who payed you to do such a thing.......but yes people, please keep your views coming"
"greetings everyone, i like eve a lot. however, the only thing that eve is missing is the first person perspective of space. it would be awesome if you could buy a droid to follow you while you walk in space stations or while you are at a land station in a nearby planet. i am personally waiting for eve to enable players to be able to walk in stations, but i would like for ccp to also keep in mind to enable players to walk on planets, ships, and enable us to enter the ship of a friend so that we could have a party or something hahah. so, yeah i would love if ccp could accomplish this. i would definitely make eve the only game i would play =d."
"it is common knowledge that highsec-to-lowsec border offices are becoming increasingly expensive to rent due to the large numbers of older corps who have been renting them for years now. these corps pay the original rent, in many cases 10k isk, no matter how many others rent offices in the station and drive up prices for others whether or not they are in active use. i propose that the pricing increases affect old corps as well as new so as to encourage many to give up offices they are no longer using. the goal of this is to enable groups new to the area to consider their use."
"i'm pretty sure you can't prepay an office for more than two months, and that the rent is adjusted every month after that. i know we quit using an office after the rent went up several million in a month. if original rents were what got paid, jita 4/4 wouldn't have free offices."
"no !!"
"great ideea"
"thumbs up ! great idea !"
"was thinking about this too for a while. :d hope ccp will implement it in the near future."
"or it would just be enough to be able to set a filter to sell orders -> available to corp/alliance/blue/all .... defalut should be set to all but also be able to restrcit to any of the above !"
"good with me"
"something like this, yes. corp contracts that can be executed multiple times(3.5 isk per trit, x100m), corp markets, whatever."
"supported.corp contracts take far too long to use for these purposes. has anyone tried to put 40 of the same ship on sale to their corp before? carpal tunnel soon sets in."
"would be nice but shouldn't be free though.my suggestion is that it should be implemented as a rental option such as the corporate office is currently. so you rent a private market which you could even expand beyond the station by paying more for it."
"i support this"
"- using labs for personal production requires access to be given to the lab to the member of the corporation, leading to issues of \"ownership\" of datacores/etc. or any other items placed in the labs.- \"renting\" slots to alliance members is not possible ex"
"this was pretty much the first thing that i raised.and it wasn't possible."
"your proposal was about making slots accessible to the public (thanks for raising it by the way!).they replied 2 things about that in the minutes:- \"jobs require a local hangar\"- it would \"interfere with station ownership of the structures themselves.\"while the 2nd point can be used to cause grief to unsuspecting installers and can indeed cause issues, the problem is reduced by limiting the scope to corp/alliance.the first one, however, is an artificial restriction/limitation of the way jobs currently work. they can take the blueprint from a station, surely they can take other resources as well. i'm not saying this is already coded that way, but i believe all the changes we request require code to be added/changed, this one would be no exception."
"disagree with op. eve voice should be left alone."
"waste of time... simply choose to not use it.if your not using it... your not losing bandwidth."
"works fine for me.ccp should fix eve voice, only real problem right now that can be solved (having eve voice work when your client crashes is just not realistic), is that eve voice has irritating habbit of throwing half the fleet out of eve voice."
"your making it too hard red :)the lite client would be more inviting to someone who wants to farm markets and or characters as opposed to macro'ing itself.people would also use it as a shield to legitimize the macro'ing as such.it's easy to spoof things on the net... i see it all the time.again.. don't misunderstand.. i like the idea of a client like this... but it gives me the willies thinking about what people would use it for."
"yeah been encountering this a lot lately, heavily tanked battleships sitting on stations knowing they can redock after aggressing (unless you've got a blob of battleships to throw at them of course). the redock timer hasn't been adjusted since rigs were released, allowing greater tanking abilities. that timer needs to be increased to at least two minutes."
"like the idea of salvage drones, but don't think it would be feasible."
"no... its been suggested...its been shot down by ccp...not supported."
"no matter how hard i try to get past this i just dont seem to be able to. so please put your views."
"anybody who argues that there's no elitism in the eve-o community is wrong"
"well you'd know lavista you've been playing for ages and have been a csm twice. tbh it makes you want a new mmo in the same vain to start up so you can get in on the ground floor."
"yeah, eve is fairly snooty, but it's not about \"the ground floor\" as much as it is about the attitude. eve is bloodthirsty, and the eve community(or at least, a big and vocal section of it) has no respect for you unless you are too. that doesn't even mean you're necessarily a killer pirate, but you'd better at least be good about your industry, trade, or whatever else, and you'd better not cry too hard when something you worked months for goes up in a pretty light show because you did something stupid with it. if you're willing to man up, take the bad with the good, and not expect the game to give you freebies, then you're pretty much part of the \"elite\" as a day-old character. and if you're not, well, you can have been playing since the beta, and still get \"gb2wow\" thrown at you whenever you open your mouth. it's not necessarily bad, though it certainly is when people go too far with it, but i'd say \"elitism\" is a fair term for it."
"um, well now. it depends. some ingame circles are very elitist (bob anyone?), but in the long run they suffer for it. goons for example, don't care who (or what) you are, as long as you don't whine too much and are a member of sa.forums? well, it seems the most elitist of them all are also the most vocal on the forums. i believe it has something to do with the fact that in game only the people in the same channel are able to hear you. that, and they fact that people are probably sick of listening to the same record repeating itself in game.all in all, i'd say most of the players aren't very elitist. i have found that it is in fact a small minority that thinks of themslves as better than the average player. sure, if somebody thinks there ought to be a safe way for them to obtain the best gear in the game, most people will tell them b2wow.i've found that no matter how silly your question is, people will generally be helpful, as long as the approach is right. it's more about attitude than anything else."
"plese add the following issues:"
"who said you have to:a) fly a ship that can get gankedb) fly with implantsc) insure a ship before you go highsec ganking.a lot of people i know dont buy insurance. i lost a faction fitted fleet issue tempest through ganking... life sucks. its taken em awhile to build back up.insurance is there, they have to pay for it and it gives a little back. ganking sucks if you are being ganked but it is part of the game. the mailing list i am part offers courier jobs, and within that they aks for collateral. if it goes pop then you pay. its a risk but lucrative if it works.-des"
"if there was some reason to haul your crap in low sec and 0.0 through gates there would be no reason at all to do suicide ganks in hi sec.however only way to get your hands on expensive loot is to get in hi sec and \"exploit\" game mechanics and gank poorly fitted haulers/overly expensive mission running ships etc.whole carebearing system needs overhauling imho. nobody wants their stuff stolen, that's for sure, but there should be some reasonable risk with everything. it doesn't make much sense either that \"everyone\" (and/or their alts) is just happily slowboating in 1.0 and making isk.it doesn't sound right to me that \"pve\" people claim that they've more right to make isk without interruption than \"pvp\" people."
"i.e 0.0 can have 1-2 reinforced nodes, can we have 5-15. from what i get there is a very limited number of reinforced nodes. reinforcing them require to dedicate 1 single node to a system during dt. what you are asking is to dedicate 5-15 (so all of those available and even more) of them permanently to fw when it is not even granted they will be sued. look the blog about reinforced nodes. if the ceo of a corp/alliance ask for them and then the battle don't happen he will be put on probation and his further request of node reinforcing will not be accepted. it is not something that it is done lightly. reinforcing a node is a major drain of server resources. every reinforced node is 10-20 or more system that need to be moved to other nodes. 15 reinforced nodes mean 200-300 systems that need to find space on other, already burdened, nodes. and again we get to the same point: reinforce system x, y, z for amarr/minmatar plus x1, y1, z1 for gallente/caldari = 6 reinforced nodes. more than what 0.0 get in a day (based on my knowledge, i can be wrong) and with the hope some fight will happen in those systems."
"the problem is that fw players stance, as a group, seem to be \"we want this fixed now, before any other problem, ccp should know what the problem is, it is impossible they don't know what is the problem and how to fix it. they are not fixing it to spite us.\"so yes, when they appear to campaign to get all ccp to work for them they get stonewalled by people with other interests."
"make that mining, industry, smoother ui, ecc., ecc.using something that has already been scrapped is simply using a straw target."
"think you're not understanding what's being asked for here. it's not \"give us 1 reinforced node per fw system that we think there might be a fight happening in at some point today as we cannot reliably predict exactly where the fight may occur\" it's \"can you dedicate standard nodes to specifically handle the fw area's only?\"for example, say a node can handle 20-30 systems under normal circumstances. at the moment, you never know whether the node you're on also happens to support the likes of dodixie / motsu / oursulaert / rens etc. instead, we're asking for dedicated nodes (note: these would be standard nodes permanently devoted to a specific set of systems rather than reinforced nodes where it's dedicated to only a single system) where the 20-30 supported systems are all fw systems with no chance of having to compete with non-fw systems for node resources.so, the same number of systems are supported by each node as before, it's just the type of systems that are different. this would also mean non-fw areas wouldn't have to compete with fw areas for node resources either."
"new fonts and choose font size!yes!"
"edit: to make it clear, i don't really have that big of an issue with the font itself, just the size.yes! this has been bugging me since my first day playing eve. i run at 1920x1200 and the text is tiny. it causes me eye strain and neck problems because i unconsciously lean forward to read things.i realize it may take a major reworking of the ui, but this game needs a major reworking of the ui anyway. please make the ui, including the font, scalable."
"my eyes need a break. large fonts now!"
"so, 3 months in, and this thread is still around. anyone might think the font situation needs some work..."
"\o/ never looks right in-game either, hasn't since they first messed it up.plus i agree with many of the other comments in this thread.why can't they use the forum font?"
"i really second that. the font is not easy to read as it is. the shape of the font has a lot to do with it, but also its size.when eve online was first released, the standard resolution of lcd monitors (for the ones who had one), was 1024x768. the font was still fine then because it was still easily readable at that resolution.now however, most players now have bigger screens, with bigger resolutions, and yet the font hasn't changed. for example, i'm running eve online on a 22\" widescreen monitor at 1680x1050. needless to say that the font is extremely hard to read, especially when i'm tired.there is an option to condense it or expand it, but to be honest, that makes the font even harder to read either way. you can also change the font size of the context-menus, but that fixes only a part of the issue.you should offer at least 3 fonts in eve:monospace (i.e. current font)serif (i.e. times new roman)sans-serif (i.e. verdana)then, offer at least 3 size presets:smallmediumlargeyou should also be able to change the default font size of windows & ui panels, tooltips, and context-menus separately.the default font size you choose for windows & ui panels should also impact the base size of igb tags such as h1, h2, and such (therefore affecting size of text in agent mission briefings). for example, if choosing normal as the default size would mean your font would be 10pts in size, then h1 could be +6pts, so 16pts.for example, one could want very small text in his overview and fleet window so it takes less space, but have a bigger font in information windows or agent mission briefings."
"if you're running high resolution, it's very hard to read because:1. it's too small2. it's too thin3. some characters are too much alike (i.e. o's and zero's, i's and one's, s's and five's, etc...)4. the shape itself is hard on the eyes, and this is a fact. squared fonts are not meant to be easy to read.i have studied desktop publishing in college, and part of our job involves designing and using fonts intensely. we had courses dedicated to fonts and typography in general.there's a reason why some fonts are always used by default in windows and other operating systems, it's because they have been proven to be easy to read (scientifically). for example, the on-screen font that is known to be the easiest to read is a sans-serif font: arial (or helvetica for its mac equivalent). tahoma and verdana are pretty close behind. the font is designed to be smooth on the eyes, rounded and thickened just enough to be easy to read. the space between letters is just right, the proportion is natural and the shape of numbers and letters are far apart enough so they are not mixed up.for printed text, it's usually serif fonts that are preferred (such as times new roman). the serif itself is what makes it easier to read \"fast\", because it's easier to differentiate certain letters that way.the typical printed font size is somewhere between 10pts and 12pts. smaller is too hard to read on most mediums, and larger takes too much space and is harder for your eyes to track. the same goes for on-screen fonts. the size in points is proportional to the resolution of the screen, so depending on your screen's dpi setting, 10 points might be slightly bigger on one monitor and smaller on another. for this reason, it's necessary to have an adjustable font size in eve online.the eve online font is far from falling in the \"easy to read\" category, and would actually fall in the \"deco font\" category. that font should be used for big bolded titles or stylized text, but not for window titles, tooltips and module info text. it's just not natural and not flowing for the eyes.some people might have gotten used to the size and shape of this font, and may like its style, but for most players with larger resolutions, it's very tiring to read and should be changed."
"i'm adding additional support for this particular solution.my 45yo eyes love verdana on my lousy, old monitor. but good ol' times new roman is easier to read on my son's his-res flatscreen.3 fonts and 3 sizes would be simple enough but would allow nearly every combination of visual acuity and monitor resolution to be accomodated."
"yes. hell, ccp should let us add our own fonts. if the font we chose happens to break something (not fit in the assigned space, or whatever), then that's our problem, and ccp wouldn't have to worry about it. but let us pick fonts!"
"yes, having to copy and paste someone's character name into notepad just to figure out what it says = fail"
"/signedthe new one was so horribly disappointing that i feebly concocted some justification that, pray to the gods, there simply wasn't enough time to squeeze the new effect for capitals in with the patch, and that the current one is a \"placeholder\" animation, and all would be right with the universe soon. the new animation is fine for the normal ships, i do think it was a step up from the previous.. fading.. thing..but replacing the cynosural field with this? lets face it ccp, whatever the intent, it looks incomplete, almost lazy.bring it back!"
"/signed"
"/signedblinded by the light.."
"thumbs up! add some webber range or even taget painting bonus!"
"fully supported."
"if you had read the first page of the op then you would know the poster didnt intend for it to be purely a gfx change"
"/signed"
"/signed again, and its on the wrong page."
"bump, we need more supporters, lets try and keep this on the first page till the csm see the need to bring this back to ccp."
"this might be a small issue as not too many people actually experience this dreadful mechanic but this issue should be fixed and as soon as possible.it's outdated, utterly mind-numbing, annoying and overall bad design.this needed a change years ago."
"ok, seem to be staying logged in now.. i have a few ideas in regards to empire colonies. writ of colonization.. similar to a starbase charter but costs a lot of lp and you only need one to establish a colony not to maintain it as you would a pos. only available from a new faction lp store* that would also carry certian types of citizens that you could install on your colony to get added productivity or to specialize what the colony produces.taxes.. to address the concern that some have expressed that empire should not be as profitable as 0.0. empires would tax colonies in proportion to the sec status in the system its in (0.5 system would have a %50 tax on the goods produced).infrastructure.. you could purchase structures to be built on your colony that would further increase and specialize what it produces.. training barracks for militants/marines, colleges for scientists/professors.. etc.specialists.. to improve the function of your infrastructure. deans for college, commandant for training barracks, plant managers, farm managers.. the list goes on. specialists would be \"recruited\" at the new faction lp stores, would either use faction lp or large amounts of isk and could be traded (to allow access to them for 0.0 alliances). they would also come in various qualities.. inexperienced, veteran, and elite.orbital station would have something like a cha with 2 divisions for goods needed and goods produced.colony could require a specialist called a colony supervisor that would act like a limited agent.. letting corp (and possibly alliance) members know what was needed for the colony. somewhat like a constant trade mission agent with no immediate rewards.*faction lp store.. a new type of lp store accessible to player corps.. requires a few changes.1a.various lp from corps belonging to a faction can be cashed in for faction lp and would be automatically donated to the player's corp.. see this as rather unpopular, actually. would also have to be an exchange rate to prevent abuse from ppl who stockpile lp.1b. i think the better way would be for for every mission to be given an additional faction lp reward to be rewarded to the player's corp if the player was in a player run corp. (a good way to convince ppl to leave npc corps, perhaps?)2. would require a new corp role to be able to spend flp, and to manage the colony infrastructure/specialists"
"the problem with reprocessing is that modules don't contain enough tritanium, but a lot more highends compared to what's needed for ship production... so, by removing the \"tritanium bottleneck\" in mining (by giving it much better yields in lower security ratings), the issue of mission loot drops is automatically managed in the process, at least partially (as in, no longer affecting mining negatively so much)... without having to touch the loot drops themselves."
"you can already do this by anchoring another sma and setting the roles differently on this, allowing some people access and others not. however the number of sma's are limited because of they're usage of cpu and pg.sure eve is an online soap opera and if a corp gets robbed its their own fault, especially with roles. but against this theft where a single ship sometimes dissapears out of a sma if the robber plays it right he can go on for a very long time without being noticed.you are right in this however there are a few stories out there of people who where loyal for years until they suddenly took of with all the corp assets and leaving it shattered. so you never know.supporting my own topic as well."
"heres a possible compromise for the \"i want to inject everything\" and the \"this would cause abuse/less traffic between 0.0/lowsec and empire\" crowds. a. allow injection of any skills you can get your impatient hands on...b. if you are podded/clonejump, all skills with 0 points in them are deleted.c. give your brain a cache that can hold up to a set number of skills to be trained in the future. aka.. put a limit on the number of skills you may have at <lvl 1.. meaning a skills that has sp but hasnt been trained to lvl1 still counts the sam as a skill with 0sp in regards to the limit.**most likely would not be necessary if b was implemented"
"i think the reason most (including myself) would prefer the inject everything model, is that it is the easiest to implement, and least confusing of the bunch. it doesn't really do much of anything different than all the more convoluted, harder to program options, but is much easier for ccp to implement, as it just takes removing/bypassing a single pre-reqs look-up."
"despite your usual trolling on this subforum i will support this."
"adding implants to pod killmails would boost reckless podding as a lot of people out in space want to make the enemy feels as hurt as possible (some don't even scoop the loot! where do they get their isk from?). i have nothing against podding, but almost every time i try to ransom someone i get the answer that they expect me to kill them after they payed, so they don't pay. this is the reputation the pirates already have and this change would make it worse. uber-pvp != piracy. piracy is making pvp to a source of income and not a source of havoc and ego boosting. i rather have someone pay his ransom then to get a killmail. i say let this implant stuff stay a mystery for the killer like it always was and let the ransom-victim run away thinking \"hahaha as if i really have +2's, silly pirates...\", or link the implants with the corpses. drop them at a medic bay to see what was in their head or something like that. otherwise we might as well put the lossmail history in the target player information window.you probably seen people saying \"well, we lost 3 ships and the loot, but we did 500mil damage and lost 20 mil...\"? well they still lost more then they gained. adding the value of the pod to the mail boosts this behaviour."
"as i've found only 2 threads on this, one locked for inactivity the other only concerned with regular, not covops cloak devices, i decided to post a new topic.i propose the introduction of a basic 0.5% chance per scan to hit a cloaked signature. also introduce the following skill:----------------------name: spatial distortion tracking (8)prequisites: astrometrics 5, astrometric pinpointing 5, astrometric rangefinding 4, astrometric acquisition 4description: advanced knowledge of scanning techniques allows the pilot to increase the chance of exploiting small spatial interferences caused by light deflection fields. adds 0.5% per level to the chance of finding cloaked signatures in space, for a total of 3% per scan at level 5.------------------------------------------------why this would make eve a better place:- ccp can't efficiently counter 0.0 macro ratters, we all understand that. let us space holders deal with the problem, give us a minimal chance of killing them cloak ravens ourselves!- stealth bomber buff was nice, but there used to be a reason there was no down-to-combat force recon ship. rapiers and arazus don't deal alot of damage, and that was nicely balanced. sb's can kill battleships solo and warp cloaked? fine. at least give us some way to probe them down if they stay in our systems cloaked instead of hours and hours of baiting games.- the very low chance of finding per scan would make it immensely difficult to probe down a non-afk cloaker before he changes spots! this would require teamwork from multiple scanners and a lot of luck. not overpowered no need to whine in my honest opinion.- reward near maxed out scanners after the need of scanskills was nerfed so bad in apocrypha anyone can find sigs with astrometrics 1!*supporting my own thread*spread the word, gather support plz. cloak is too powerful.yue"
"not supported. not everyone who uses a cloak is a macro ratter. cloaks are already balanced."
"makes complete sense.two thumbs up from me"
"i semi support thiscloak is good and balanced but with the recent changes to the stealth bomber most of them have started psychological warfare by their new ability.i would suggest the following changes to yue's idea.*change the working of cloaks on stealth bombers, give them a higher change of getting scanned down while cloaked*give us a mod or ship that can scan for cloaked ships that works in sort of mix of the directional & scanner probe system (allow to see the angel your scanning on the map)this way teamwork is encouraged and stealth bombers have to be sneakier to try and hit something + they will will be occupied more zipping around then choosing targets.*change the mobile warp disrupt bubble so that it has a 30 - 40 % change of uncloaking stealth bombers"
"i really like that proposal! these cloaking isk-farmers in our territory drive me crazy. i<U+FFFD>ve spent hours trying to catch them, but it<U+FFFD>s nearly impossible. or even in war times, cloaked alt chars from the enemy on a safe spot in local 23/7 are untouchable.give us scannings experts a chance to get those ships. increase scan-time, make it harder to trigger. even a new probe launcher with new probes would be fine :)100% supported yue!kay"
"/not supportedcloaks work well enough. if you're having problems with macro ratters, camp them. either they'll leave after not getting anything accomplished or they'll explode."
"probability-based scanning sucked, because it meant you had to sit there forever, not knowing if you were scanning the right bit of space, waiting for your snake eyes to come up. i do not want to see it return. cloaking is fine in most contexts, and there are better ways to introduce balance when it's not fine. not supported."
"i'm quite opposed to the following feature suggestion. not only would this make covert ops and stealth bombers useless, but it would also make cloaking devices altogether pretty much useless.the only purpose of cloaking devices is to be able to be invisible to other players. invisible to the naked eye, to the directional scanner and to probes.the only thing i could see being done about cloaking devices is to prevent the module from being used on ships larger than a certain size. for example, it's inconceivable that ships as big as capital ships and freighters can use cloaking devices. i would be in favor of only allowing specialized ships (covert ops cloaking device) or ships below a certain size to use cloaking devices, but not to have a way to scan cloaking fields."
"no way. cloaking is there for a reason. fitting (and in most cases also using) a cloak incurs penalties: speed, cpu, scan resolution, lock time etc.cloaking is fine. inactivity (or rather permanent activity) is a viable tactic."
"tactics are only valid if you can defend against thempsychological warfare with the stealth bombers is the ultimate weapon in eve and should there for get a counter measurehow can it be fair that 1 single person can disrupt an entire system by just sitting in a safe spot cloaked afk, if their is no way to find that person"
"recons don't do dps and anyone using them for dps should reconsider if it would be a smart move to train for hacs. this is why the recons have a new family member now: the bomber. paper-thin, slow aligning and massive dps that has to be dealt from within the target's drone range. if you read up the infos on recons it will tell you that they are meant for infiltration of enemy systems.i would support some nerf to normal cloaks on normal ships (the module name \"prototype\" says it all).someone in one of the other nerf-cloaking-until-ships-are-broken-again threads said something like scanning for the small heat signature around ships. it sounds to me like if a given uncloaked ship has a scan strenght of 100% then a cloaked one has 5%. so get your maxed scanner alt with it's sisters hardware and go scanning for the next hour. just don't touch ships that are build to cloak!"
"wrong. cloak in system, wait. wait. get in position behind hulk and in line with safespot. fire bomb, gtfo. result? instapop hulk, instapop hauler, disrupted system of 20 peeps by one single person with no way to counter it."
"sorry for double post."
"not supported...stop coming up with excuses for your failure to nail down a cloaked ship.there are many ways to stop them... you just need to learn how.cov op's cloaks are harder granted... but they aren't immune either."
"i am in of the belief that eve should be as close to a believable reality as possible, from this stand point i think its stupid that covert cynos aren't usable in high secsupported"
"so, am i going to be able to pop a covert cyno at a wartarget's mission entry gate, and covertly jump right into his mission from 3 jumps out?"
"i like this idea"
"i'm opposed to this.the op suggested that this would limit the defensive use of alt sentries as defensive measures, and that might be true. however, the advantage of using an alt as a sentry over another player is marginal at best, which makes this have fairly little value in that sense. at the same time, it also magnifies many times over the value of alt acouts (and particularly neutral alt scouts) for the offensive activities. under this plan, for example, there would be literally no way at all to defend a mining op during wartime, as the wts would simply scout the op in a neutral alt, then nearly instantly cyno a bomber/recon fleet to the op. same with missions, gate camps, or any other high-sec activity that doesn't involve station-hugging. given that the key player is a neutral party, there would be absolutely no defense to this beyond staying in the station. the new griefer tactic would be to have a neutral alt try to invite his main's wts into a mission, then drop a fleet on them via cyno.to ensure balance, there would have to be two additional restrictions placed on covert cynos used in high-sec, in my opinion. first, they can only be used in 'empty space'. that is, they could be used at a safespot bm, but not at a station, gate, belt, or mission location. (this has the added advantage of preventing the inevitable constant multiple cyno at every key point in jita.) second, the cyno and resulting bridge can only be used by ships from the same corp/alliance as the cyno pilot. to clarify, these restrictions would only affect cynos lit in high-sec.frankly, i'm against this in any case, but without the above the game would be completely destroyed for the targets of griefer corps."
"/signed.6mil sp wasted..."
"signed"
"i have to admit, missiles in general have been hit way too hard. by the way rockets are below useless now. fix those too."
"most of the caldari whiners in this thread want missiles to be superior to turrets in every way. missile users already don't have to worry about tracking, falloff, and cap while being able to pick damage types. missiles shouldn't be superior in every way; they should have their downsides. rockets do need some fixing, though.pre-qr, missiles just wouldn't hit nanoships and therefore would do 0 damage. how was qr a nerf?ps: be thankful you're not minmatar and don't have to deal with large projectile turrets."
"/signed.if you're not giving us wis this year, at least improve on faction warfare please."
"well the voting process is exploitable, could always hack it like some of the current candidates did."
"the proposed changes won't make the ishtar or domi any more overpowered (more spare-drones, yea, but it's only a meh), but any other ships... i'm going to love my new ishkur for example, or what about a sentry/sniper mega? :)anyway: supported, as drones are the least modifiable means of dps output."
"i like it support xd"
"indeed. this is the same killmail whining as with the show-implants-on-podmails stuff. boo hoo, you didn't get a killmail. so what? i hate suiciders as well, but in some cases it's the smartest thing to do. the option is there for a reason and the reason is not to use it when you're stuck in the roids as gms are there for that reason. just try to catch or bomb the suicider's pod if that makes you feel better * ninja edit just to quote this man:"
"presently we have one corp member with an outstanding petition regarding contracts that was filed june 10th and no acknowledgement has been received.i have at least 6 petitions in this toon history with petitions that took over 7 days for a response and some that took upwards of a month to be resolved.. successfully.i also have at a number of petitions that were answered, a question was asked, i answered and then they auto-closed for lack of response or open too long.the only time i get a quick response is for a stuck petition. i have yet to 'abuse' the use of this subject to get quicker response on others but its getting pretty tempting."
"/signedhad petition \"waiting\" for 3 weeks. after 3 weeks gm responded (thx god i checked web site because i got no info in game). i responded, awaiting response. check website, petition closed, \"timed out\". fkn joke tbh.random response times, 3 week wait times, useless in-game petition system. all of this needs to be fixed."
"i've worked in organizations that both provide and demand service level agreements and i can tell you that we're not talking about $15 monthly services. can anyone name a service in the same price range as eve that includes service level agreements in writing?edit: i've never waited more than two days for a petition response."
"pos are broken right?"
"/signedalso pls fix the damn pos capacity bug. i (and i'm sure i'm not the only one) bug reported this over a month ago and still no word from the devs except a \"attached to a defect\" to the bug report."
"pos research industry need a lot of work (still no copy jobs for alliance, no renting slot to the general public).this will be a fist step.oh, for inventing, add the possibility to say \"i have x parallel jobs with the same parameters\". selecting decryptor and metaitem every time add a lot of needless clicks."
"yes please and thank you in advance."
"shouldn't be too difficult to implement and as has been said it's a basic feature that should be in the client anyway."
"support"
"yes."
"no, it doesn't."
"i am tired of not having a copy of some sweet kills i've been a part of"
"...delete themselves? how about no. the whole point of killmails is that people like to keep records of this stuff. let them."
"hell yess!sometimes i think people here have lagofobia, i am not the top games devloper, but i know for sure that more killmails will not cause lagg. let admins take care of database calls and other stuff like this, most of us aren't game developers, so our advices probably will not be very usefull or aproprite, game developers at ccp know waaay more about lag wars, so let them do that."
"i support this!"
"i'm supporting you.as solo, please give my million to a \"poor noob\"[edit: grammar]"
"whine whine ****ing whine!!! all i read in this thread. i say, if it works out this would be awesome.imagine having to think about where you pvp or are on the grid because a small gas cloud around the gate will reduce the amount of damage your railguns do to the ship on the opposite side.or if this would apply to e-war, then what about a piece of debris, it could block off the warp disruptor's effect.you find a ship in an asteroid belt, you try to jam him but the field is too dense and the jammers are more prone to failing. i vote yes, if this is implemented correctly."
"where i would really love more real physics in the game, i doubt that ccp or the servers are capable of this atm.but as a game change, it would be an amazing addition!to see people having to fly their ships not just sit in a blob and hit f1 over and over.i'll support it, but for when its more practical not now."
"anyone else notice that the quality of caod went downhill immediately following the lifting of jade's permaban?"
"here is a original idea...allow the op to rate the replies and to close the thread they started. then allow people viewing the forum to have their own personal threshold.this puts it on the op's shoulders to keep his thread clean of trolls, posts that do not follow the op, and when the thread has died out to lock it."
"you should read your own op.and no, don't try editing it now..eve-search has it cached.having said that, you apparently not only fail to read what you post yourself, but your reading comprehension seems to be severely limited by your black and white thinking.this also means that as soon someone posts something critical, he'll be downrated by the op. if he's getting too many critical reponses, he'll just rate them all down and lock the thread. do you really think that will work?"
"well maybe you should read a little closer, that was examples of others i quoted which mentioned a particular alliance 'i didn't ' sheep :)"
"well no idea is perfect, but you can't deny the potential it has to reduce the junk and help self-moderate the forum. most posters are going to be willing to allow a reasonable amount of criticism. if anything, it forces the people to put more thought in their responses and not be overly critical in their responses to the point of being disrespectful of op views. that can only improve the forum in my eyes.sure you will have people that only allow glowing responses but what can you do? post your own thread in response and link back if the op is blocking yours and others reasonable responses. opinions are like asses, everyone has one, and they never think theirs stinks. op idea of integrating eve standings and blocking whole alliances from responses is a little too much. it would require a lot of work tying eve player database and forum database together. it would also require even more over site by ccp and even more forum moderators. -my idea is tested as it has been done before on many a forum, including youtube and other websites.-much easier to implement. -it goes even farther giving the op even more ability to moderate his own thread then the op options do.-it also reduces some of the work load on the forum moderators for threads that players are willing to actively self-moderate."
"has it improved the quality of posts on youtube? as i said earlier, any system that can be manipulated by the agenda of the users is bound to fail. if you want to experience the shortcomings of your system, try posting a well thought out comment on how world of warcraft is mostly a well executed patchwork of things taken from other mmos in a wow fanvideo.you don't need to do this in a disrespectful manner to be marked as spam, abusive, and downrated six feet under."
"its hard to judge because youtube posters moderation allow deletion by the video posters. go to youtube and find a video for a professional product or service, or a post by a active image concise youtube video poster and i think you'll see the difference. the really bad response threads are where the posters are not actually posting their own works, so they don't bother to take the time."
"one last /bump thx for all the responses. hopefully this will happen."
"makes sense. i'd like to see it implemented in a way that was directed towards compensation rather than profit generation, but i can't think of any way to do this. jbs will quickly turn into isk generators, which isn't the worst thing that could happen./signed"
"all eve ships offer diminishing returns for isk invested.a cruiser cost 10x - 30x times the amount of a friga cruiser is ~2x - 3x more powerful than a friga battleship costs 15x the amount of a cruisera battleship is ~2x - 3x more powerful than a cruisera carrier costs 10x the amount of a battleshipa carrier is ~2x - 3x more powerful than a battleshipa mothership cost 15x the amount of a carriera mothership is ~2x - 3x more powerful than a carrier.conclusionmothership are balanced."
"your proportions, they are wrong."
"hands off my helios!"
"amen!!!the old helios model was awesome!like a lil poisonous insect of some kind.....so they switched the model for an unsymmetrical blob of junk.yay for making the best looking ship into the worst overnight.bring back the old model, who cares bout the hull type."
"the cloak helps to hide the horrendiously ugly ship.i've stopped flying mine tho, just too ugly and too disappointing to be confronted with daily."
"no. all four covert ops get a cloak, a scan probe launcher and a covert cyno bonus. the helios cannot use all 3."
"i'm not sure if ability to fit it is a bonus, but sure, if you claim that it is then you're right. personally, i look at a covert cyno as an optional module, so having to trade off isn't that horrifying a prospect."
"there is soo much empty space outside.not supported."
"the problem empire seems overcrowded is the risk/reward for low sec and 0.0. they should move all level 5 agents to faction 0.0 then all lvl 4 agents to low sec. there ya go problem solved. but, also make 0.0 more profitable then lvl 4 missions once again wouldn't hurt."
"that's a common myth which doesn't solve anything tbh. the majority of eve has zero interest in taking risks. sad, but true. they will switch to lower key income if they have to, in order to avoid risk. take a different angle. you cannot turn sheep into wolves, so draw the wolves out to places where it matters. let alliances buy standings and agent slots from state datacenters for level 4 or 5 agents in 0.0 outposts, where space is virtually unused because everybody makes his money on safe alts at worst, and at best on alts in 0.0 npc space.and if you really, really want 0.0 space used, as in populated to a point where there are targets which do have to defend resources other then two x64 moon types, think of something (maybe a resource type or a really stupidly dramatic cost or time saver on 0.0 player owned station assembly lines) to build capital ships.problem is not people making money in empire, or it being low risk. problem is that it is too easy while shielded in a starter corp, and it ties in way too closely with resource management for the big boys with their big toys."
"some of us like having empty space as an option.another 4 npc 0.0 bordering empire, and 8 sov 0.0 on the far side of current 0.0 would be great."
"that's funny, cause i had an idea how to add a entire second universe to eve before black wholes were talked about back in 08' my thread can be found here"
"it has come to my attention that several parts of the website are starting to become obsurdly out of date, especially the features and ideas pages, which include, in testing, the drawing board, and in development pages for future patches / expansions of eve.while dev blogs and forums do provide and immediate to short range look and what is being developed, we as players are out of the loop on long term information or up to date information. what can we do to get the web page and all information up to date?"
"lol? do you understand what t3 means? wide range or roles but less powerful than t2read the sentence: wider range or roles!i don't want a ship with ishtar dps, i just want a ship that can f***ing explore on it's own!"
"yeah ccp tengus suck.i want 27 missile launchers , warp cloak , anti-bubble and a ddd as standard.this is t3 after all, hump!oh yeah and i want all that with 58,000 dps tank and 12 trillion hit points.common make t3 work."
"yes, you can fit 4 missiles on 5 hardpoints. however, you can run every type of radar/mag site with that fit, and still fight and tank like a t1 cruiser, along with scanning and warping like a covops and ignoring bubbles. there's no rule in the game that says that you have to fill all your hardpoints - it's a choice. if you want to run salvaging sites, fit a salvager. if you want to fight better, fit a missile. i'm just saying, that's a perfectly viable exploration fit - hell, you can take it through hostile 0.0 and not really need to worry - and i hacked it together in ten minutes in eft. i'm sure you can do better, but i don't need to to prove my point. there are tradeoffs. if you want a ship that fights like a crazy awesome hac, then you can do that. if you want a sneaky covops derivative, you can do that. if you want a frigging partridge in a pear tree, you can probably come up with a t3 fit that qualifies. the ships give you choices, and it's up to you to choose. just because you can't fit a claymore tank, a cocd, a doomsday, and three strip miners doesn't mean that t3 is incapable of doing its job. it's fine, the problem is with your unreasonable expectations."
"why do i get trolls replying all the time, you're not even an explorer.exagerating always works, when someone says make x more reasonable you say: you want to make a wtfomfgwtfpwnmobil, good trolling, now f*** off.anyone who plans to use t3 for exploration, make an effort to experiment with fits and tell me what you find! show me a proteus or legion fit that works for exploring without being behind t1 cruiser in any matter, dps, tank....etc"
"i've got several legion fits that are much better than a zealot (except with rof) in wormholes....what are you doing wrong? (no support for your whinyness)--isaac"
"how do you know what i do? i don't own t3 ships(not even close to worth it, as far as i can see), but i do plenty of exploration. i have an ishtar fit to feed me decryptors with highsec exploration, a helios to scan things out, and a myrm and a domi fit for wormhole work. look, you wanted a t3 ship that could explore solo, i gave you one. it scans with a bonus, warps cloaked, has all the exploration modules fitted, and does other nifty things besides, along with being able to tank a fair bit of damage and kill most rats you come across. it's not a hac, but it's sure as hell not a covops either. aside from your absurd fascination with filling all your launcher/turret hardpoints(hint: if you don't want to drop a missile for a salvager, don't), i see nothing wrong with the fits that i managed to come up with on a trivial amount of effort. also, if you want a comparison between a proteus and a vexor for exploration, here's a few fields the proteus does better at: - scanning(both strength and the ability to fit an expanded launcher without reaming your cpu)- warping cloaked- moving through bubbles- ehp- tanki don't know about you, but i like those things being part of my exploration ship. yeah, it does less damage(unless you drop the \"warp cloaked\" requirement), but in every other way it's a more capable ship. anyways, this is likely the last time i'm going to reply. if you don't get it by now, you're not going to."
"the only urgent issue i see here is this op needs to be banned for trolling his/her own thread and treating everyone like ####.not supported."
"a well deserved *bump* to keep this on the first page (sry). and it's definitely something for the csm to look into..."
"let 0.0 alliances anchor a scanning array at pos that provide local intel for that alliance only in that system. the array must sit outside of the pos, and has low shield hp and massive armor hp, allowing it to be the target of smaller gangs who want to deny intel to the victims of their raid for short periods of time.if an alliance doesn't anchor the array, they don't have local intel in that system."
"ok their dull, so what about a overhall?im not talking put the sleeper ai in, as a lot of mission runners use drones so some compromise is needed i think in that area.but what about a few other changes that would really thicken up their content level without huge changes. .group missions? - where you need to use x device on 2 towers at the same time from 2 ships? its an mmo after all and you can always pass on them. non bs missions - where only hacs / afs or sub bc/bs sized ships can get though the gates at lv4? they have many rooms and only t2 ships to fight ect..escort missions - where u have to escort some dumb indy pilots though 3-4 rooms to some outpost thats where everyone will die if he dont get their?split missions  these would just be you have to clear x rooms but its better to be run in a group as there are multiple gates and theirs some incentive to clear/be in x + y rooms at the same time.edit this really is just a quick overview of the basic idea, too see whatif any suport is out thier for it.this could be alot more complex (as per jin's comments)or done simply with a few small additions."
"interesting idea, and i do agree that missions do need some spice (random enemy formations, etc), but there are a lot of other things that need work first (sovereignty, fw, mining, etc). you have some good ideas here, that hopefully the mission design team could use alongside other ideas i championed during my term in the csm. as a dedicated mission runner, i support this thread.however, i think your group missions should be available only from certain types of agents (separate intelligence and security by the mission types given, for instance). solo mission runners already have a lot to turn down with the anti-faction missions, and this idea would make it more of a headache, but supported no less."
"one solution that i could think of to streamline things like that and to fit them into the game immersion would be the creation of agents that are simply not available to single players.instead, they'd only be a available to corporate ceos and security officers. add other random appropriate roles.the mission would thus not be accepted by a player, but by the corporation as a whole.there are many ways in which missions could actually require multiple people to complete and firepower is the worst of all. it would work better, if such missions would require certain modules that can hardly be fit in addition to combat modules on single ships. hacking and archaeology come to mind as well as scramblers.imagine a mission where there are 1+ target ships, which will actually make a run for it unless you keep them scrambled. if the mission also needs firepower and a hacking module, there would be no choice but to use multiple ships. you might even need mixed fleets with tackler frigates and/or interceptors. even interdictors or heavy interdictors could be needed.this would also allow more players to get a taste of how pvp is basically like, by forcing fleet compositions and fittings that are currently not needed for pve.the running rat is actually the most essential part of that. why would all rats just sit there, waiting for the slaughter? have them flee in certain missions, if they are clearly outgunned. unless you keep them fixed, you will lose the mission objective.those agents could also be removed from the normal agent system completely. they could be added to the corporate interface, since only certain corporate officers could use them anyway. with an interactive system, it would be easy to adjust mission difficulty to the individual corp by having players select how many pilots they got.please select your military capacity:tactical squad (2-3)full squad (3-5)wing (5-10)please select your preferred mission type:recon (covert ops required)intelligence (hacking required)escort (logistics required)combat (heavy firepower required)retrieval (industrial required)once you made your choice, you get a mission that resembles the criteria, more or less. all might require heavy firepower, but that is not a necessity. retrieval missions might require the fleet to get a large amount of cargo out of a combat zone. killing all rats and then coming back with a cargo ship might simply not work, if there are time restraints, or if the enemy constantly respawns and actively tries to destroy the mission objective.all in all, my support for more complex missions. i am curious how the promised epic mission arcs will turn out..."
"you want your missions to be interesting and new, and require thought and skill? that's crazy talk!seriously, just about all these ideas sound like they'd be a lot of fun. supported."
"i'm just the dedicated salvager on clean-up duty, but these ideas sound fun.there might even be roles, other than salvage, in such missions that an industrial character with very limited combat skills could do with some not-too-time-consuming, targeted training.i don't know if its practical, but maybe even a possibility of roles requiring the industrial skills?"
"couldn't be any worse than what we have at the moment..."
"i want ccp to implement tools that will help them find isk sellers easier and help them find the farmers that are supplying them. everyone knows how annoying isk sellers that spam local and other channels with advertisements are. most people just bock them and go about their business. what if... ccp kept track of player blocks. if ccp used player blocks as a tool, any time a player accumulates 20 blocks in a 24 hour period they would be subject to having their chat logs scanned by ccp for isk selling spams. if found, the account could be banned then the ip could be blocked for 24 hours.now i know a lot of people will say if ccp does this electronically a lot of spams will get past the system, and if they do it by human intervention it would cost ccp too much to implement. what i suggest in combination ccp would, in a future patch, implement a instillation id. this would allow ccp to do two things... to block the entire instillation causing the client's access to ccp's servers to be denied on that instillation. it would also allow ccp to look at other accounts that had been logged in via that instillation id and those accounts could also be subject to investigation as well.one small isk spam could turn into a little mini sting operation. with these tools ccp could throw a huge net and catch dozens of other accounts. ccp could use the isk and market trade activity and locate the farmers that helped accumulate the isk that is being sold by the isk seller. for convenience isk sellers will have many accounts on the same machine and have them training at the same time. all these shared farming accounts on the initial instillation id could be investigated. all other instillation ids those subject accounts have logged in to could also be investigated. all accounts logged into those secondary installation ids could be investigated as well. with this, you could even look at any instillation id's that share the same ip address of instillation id's that are being investigated. now that is a huge net, and it would be very difficult for isk sellers to keep the isk farmers detached from each other to avoid getting the whole operation banned. the only way to do it would be to have one farmer per instillation, per ip. that would severely reduce the ability of isk sellers of making isk in game.i think if a system was created and carried through with human intervention, and the banning was a little more through like stated above, then it would have a bigger impact. i think that impact would be worth the time and effort of having the system be human driven. what ccp would be doing is removing people that are cutting in to their revenue so in the end it would benefit them.i also hear a lot of blah blah about the mineral market and how removing isk farmers would affect it. if the markets are in trouble then ccp has the means to sure them up, either through its reintroduction of ai sold shuttles or what ever the case may be. this would not be a end all way of removing isk farming and selling.. if isk sellers find it too risky using eve itself as a form of market to sell the isk, then it falls on the websites out there that sell the isk to pick up the slack. for that, ccp would continue banning the out of game isk sellers and the people that buy the isk from them. i think ccp should also work closer with these companies running the larger search engines out there and get some of the isk selling adverts out of these crawlers and ads. its just as bad if you visit a eve related website that has google ads and get a big isk selling advert with your internet browsing.these changes could turn eve into the hardest game to sell in-game money for real life out of any game that i know of. more then likely, they would just pick up and take their business elsewhere."
"supporting my topic violating no law?? lmao you have no idea... do you really think these isk sellers are paying google for ad service? either way... every in game isk has value to ccp as its a trading medium for their game time codes. it is illegal to sell a virtual item like that as they must be the owner of the underlying intellectual property or be licensed by the property holders to do so. isk sellers sell in game virtual money that they do not own the intellectual property for. ebay was raking in the money when they were helping people sell wow characters for 900 bucks a character. they didn't stop the sale of wow characters because they were not making money at it.. reality check! you don't actually own anything you have accumulated in eve. it's all ones and zeros on ccp's server and they all belong to ccp. what you pay 14.95 for is the limited access to that database. you can not resell your access or anything else that belongs to ccp and is covered under their intellectual property rights.that's a interesting view because there is a case against piratebay for giving access to torrents that break the copyright laws. now, this could easily be used to pressure ad services to stop giving ad space to people that are breaking intellectual property laws."
"i've never blocked an isk spammer in my life, because i know they'll be banned in five minutes and replaced in six. i'll report them, but i won't ban them. also, be aware - people have a tendency to react violently to anything that has even the slightest whiff of spyware about it, so your second proposal will also go over badly. working with the ad companies might help, but i'm not sure how receptive they'll be when ccp starts telling them to turn away paying customers violating no law. fundamentally, this is a hard problem. if there was a simple solution, we'd have seen it already. your ideas are better than most, but i'm a definite skeptic on this issue."
"i agree to the first part. most websites monitor your ip address, especially for secure data transmission. not all of them tell you that they're doing it, but for safety (and the very reasons mentioned above - keeping out the riffraff), it's kind of essential. afaik, no law prevents the capture of ip addresses, else most sites wouldn't do it to avoid a lawsuit.the last idea i think is likely to fail, as ccp has no direct jurisdiction over affairs that, while related to eve, are not going through any website owned by ccp. they'd be asking a favor, and i highly doubt any internet advertising source would agree to their proposal. the only way around this that i know is to stop most servers from installing ads on the site unless from eve itself (which would require a minimal payment to said sites, but still a drop in the bucket compared to the lost revenue from isk spam).the only question is if ccp would be willing to do these measures. i doubted their desire to block spammers and macros before i joined the csm, was given hope while in the csm, but now i'm starting to doubt that hope. only time will tell, and it certainly doesn't hurt to ask them to do these things."
"this seem a reasonable proposal. i don't know enough to be sure if it is really feasible, but ccp could look this proposal."
"so its ok for ccp to have my credit information and make automatic withdraws, but no way am i going to trust them to create a randomized instillation id that has none of my personal data in it? well lotta people don't seem to mind.. every microsoft windows client has a similar feature since xp back in 2002. in microsoft's instillation its an actual hardware id that is basically a fingerprint of your system. the installer would have nothing more then a line or two that creates the key as part of the instillation and inserts it into the exe. the rest of the authentication would be on the log server. where is the spyware in that? i don't he how this could ever be conceived as being malicious in any way. how you ever managed to make the leap is beyond me.violating no law?? lmao you have no idea... do you really think these isk sellers are paying google for ad service? either way... every in game isk has value to ccp as its a trading medium for their game time codes. it is illegal to sell a virtual item like that as they must be the owner of the underlying intellectual property or be licensed by the property holders to do so. isk sellers sell in game virtual money that they do not own the intellectual property for. ebay was raking in the money when they were helping people sell wow characters for 900 bucks a character. they didn't stop the sale of wow characters because they were not making money at it.. reality check! you don't actually own anything you have accumulated in eve. it's all ones and zeros on ccp's server and they all belong to ccp. what you pay 14.95 for is the limited access to that database. you can not resell your access or anything else that belongs to ccp and is covered under their intellectual property rights."
"agreed. as part of the isk seller problem, ccp should allow anyone who discovers macro miners the ability to blow them up without concord intervention"
"if you implent such a thing like an automatical ban after a set number of spam reports goonswarms main tactic for fleetwarfare will be to have every hostile fleet member reported by 4000 goons."
"fine, as long as we miners get dd's to mount on our hulks for use on the idiots who'll attack anyone in a mining barge under the pretense of \"i thought they were a macro miner\"."
"as a rule of thumb, the average person will overreact to things by a factor of two, and the vocal minority by a factor of ten. i didn't say it was spyware, i said that's what people would see it as. and i'm familiar with how microsoft does it - again, i don't care much myself(so long as their code isn't stupid), but i know that people have quit windows and switched to mac/linux over it. i assume the coders at google are somewhat better than the coders at sketchy isk farming operation #986a, so yeah, i'd assume they paid for their ads. they're sleazebags violating the eula, but they do mostly operate within the law - same way spammers pay their income taxes and consider themselves mostly legitimate businessmen. and by breaking no law i mean that they can't be put in jail. they're eminently suable, but not jailable for what they do so far as i know. i'm not a lawyer, but i'm sure i would have heard about it if these sorts of people wound up in jail."
"your argument makes sense, but your example is ****poor. windows is spyware."
"world of warcraft's \"right click > report spam\" is supposed to be working and sounds similar to your proposal. add an option that's equivalent to a 24-hour block (to save block slots for actual douchebags) and sends a notification to an on-duty ccp gm.of course abusing the system would be a bannable offense."
"i assume you would want the flagging rules to extend to pos modules as well ? with what you are proposing, would the person scooping the item be flagged to the corp that unanchored the module or the original owner of the module ? (as all modules are unanchorable by 'anyone' upon the destruction of a pos).would make a few high sec pos raiding corporations very happy if they could scramble and destroy a 'neutral' ninja scooping hauler making off with their spoils of war."
"im pretty sure only the peson who launched it can anchor/unacnchor, unless someone else scoops it and then relaunches, which changes ownership.but need that veryfied ;)"
"i'm actually going to say that stealing an unanchored pos module of any sort should flag you to the original owner and not the person that unanchored it. doesn't help me any but i think it makes sense.gibbo:i think what the above poster was talking about is if you blow up the control tower anyone can unanchor the labs."
"pretty much kuroi and i actually do agree. @ gibbo: i dont mean or want to derail your proposal, but since you're asking for pos theft flagging, i figured it may as well be propagated to the pos modules themselves (in the advent of pos destruction) which can be worth almost, if not more than the cost of the pos itself :d."
"im going to assume your a brand new player and have very little time in the game.if so.. welcome to the game... if not.... i'll just skip that part.go to backstory ---> chronicles of eve and start reading... you'll find out that first person perspective is totally outside of the realm of this games reality.you are in a pod.... you have no windows... your eyes are camera drones that fly around your ship.... those are your eyes.eve if you where to gain such a thing.... it would be very damaging to the game play due to the fact that people enjoy the 3rd situational awareness of the environment.don't get me wrong... i love first person perspective.... but it's not likely to happen here."
"for some reason anything you said was lost in the haze of smiley faces you strung along after your post. just click a few at random did you?shaking that off - walking on planets? honestly? we can't even properly orbit a planet yet, and you want to walk on them?"
"i totally agree with this part of your post. the rest, not so much."
"ded will send an evemail when a pos is dropped into a system but not when a pos is removed. is it possible to have ded notify when a pos is removed? this would make audits of renter system much easier. thx"
"it's called either effort or scouting, maybe even a combination of the two."
"haven't dealt with this system, but it sounds reasonable."
"not supported.you already get that information through those same ded mails as they give an overview of what towers are in system, where they are and who they belong to. track these mails and you have all the info you need.this does depend on the new pos anchoring event, so if that is too much trouble there is another method which gives all the information you need: the api.if you have renters, you have renter management. administration, billing, etc. if you succesfully have renters that burns out people, so for that we have external tools to help.a simple full api key of a director or pos manager of each renter corp is a simple thing to ask. in fact it is a big security element for the people who rent the system to them.if the renter himself is worried about snooping or god knows what, although personally i think there is some relevance to the concept of \"pets\", he can always use an api proxy to only let pass that information which he has agreed to submit or open up to. there's a few of those in the technology section on these forums.make a little bit of effort :p"
"herschel is exactly correct"
"alright... i know this isn't exactly the place for it... but how the hell does that system work?are the prices adjusted on population? standings of the corp?"
"i think this is the basic working of the system. linkage i have no idea on the actual pricing formula. rents in popular stations propably cost a small fortune."
"i worry about walking in stations and the inevitable rent increases that will come as demand increases for hub offices.it would be nice if a re-evaluation of how offices work would be included into the changes."
"i think the office prices depend on how many people dock/undock at that station.check prices at a station where a good l4 agent is, and on another (same system) where no good agent is.difference can be millions."
"i believe the system is that every month the rent is recalculated based on how many free offices there are - if there's not many the rent goes up, if there's a lot the rent goes down. it'll naturally hit equilibrium over time. out of curiosity, i checked office rents for a couple big stations a while back - jita was about a quarter billion a month, motsu was about 600 million a month, and both had 2-3 free offices. the scariest part is that there's 23 corps willing to pay those rates, imo, but they do pay them."
"i just had a slightly different approach to the other proposal to solving the same basic problem. the tons of trolls, rude and disrespectful responses, off topic responses, and other issues that plague the caod forum.allowing self-moderation. basically the original poster would have the ability to close his own threat and rate the responses to their thread. then, each person would have a rating filter that they could set for themselves. at the top of the thread viewers would also have the option to manually set the threshold for that particular thread. this layout almost forces people to put more thought in their responses and not be overly critical in their responses to the point of being disrespectful of op views. that can only improve the forum in my eyes.i think for the most part most posters are going to be willing to allow a reasonable amount of criticism without wielding the rating stick. nothing is perfect tho, some will use this as a propaganda tool and totally filter out any criticism witch is fine. why? this allows for a separate post with opposing views. with separate threads of separate views you don't have the blood and guts warring in threads you see now.so lets just take a for instance. if it was a bash goons thread, the op decides to allow a few friendly and a few neutral responses but decides to vote down all goon responses. when the op feels like the thread has been covered and he no longer has the time to moderate it then he can close it. so the viewer finds the thread can choose to view all or go with the op best judgment. goons are free to put up their own thread to counter if they feel they have been wrongly filtered out of the conversation and give their own opinions and views in their thread. result? less warring in caod threads, and we no longer have 3-4-6... month old threads being kicked to the top of caod about a engagement because two trolls are duking it out over who's epeen is bigger."
"less design work then the original proposal.more do-able.similar results.less moderation required.its been done before."
"self moderaton is like self governance, rarely works and remains very easily exploitable. i'd opt for a decent set of manual filter options available to the user instead. think of it like a block list. people can block by player / corporation / alliance, pretty much like the caodcleaner script for firefox.gives people control without hassle, keeps the drama potential, puts the responsability and control with the user, without falling prey to traps like user rating or self moderation."
"very easily exploitable? how?you opt for ccp to allow a block list to include corps and alliances? then in the process you wall your self off from a potentially huge number of people and block your viewing of any input on any subject. you might end up missing some interesting information on an issue that might come up that is neutral to the both you and those 3-4 alliances you blocked. in the end it does nothing to solve the actual problem, it just masks it.still drama potential, it is between threads rather then in the middle of them to the point of derailing them.i think the hassle of viewing your own post a few times a day to adjust the rating on inappropriate posts is minimal, because your going to be viewing the responses to your thread anyway.no one is trapped into using the rating system, op can ignore the rating system completely if they wanted. if your talking about posters then they ought to either start their own thread or reply with a less hostile post that still gets the point across.this system takes the burden off ccp to moderate some of the trolling and awful posting that goes on and puts it squarely on the people that post to it. so, only you can prevent caod from turing into a forrest fire. posters will be the ones held accountable."
"its like a bug infestation. except 90% of the bugs are this one specific one, say cockroaches. the other 10% are like ants, spiders, etc.just ban all the cockroaches from posting and viola, coad becomes 100 times more enjoyable."
"there's two things caod thrives on: emo and ego.adding a rating system .. hm .. i wonder what that would do ..you're coming at it from the wrong angle with this tbh. the layout you propose does not almost force people to put more thought in their responses, god no, it encourages people to make their own threads to pollute matters even more, especially about op nr 317 of thread 98938 who's beating his chest every 3 minutes adding or tweaking a rating, etc.the effort required on the player side to as such keep control over a topic is unrealistic compared to the amount of ****storms caod generates as well. in the end only the worst examples of people will continue using it, and will continue to turn it into a rather very bad public viewpoint for people looking at eve from the outside. it's already at a point where people don't feel like even looking at nullsec experiments because they think all of nullsec is like caod.god no man. this is caod, you cannot expect any room for rationality or common sense there. any argument which even touches on that fails miserably for such an environment.caod is a public urinoir. nothing more, nothing less.scrapheap-challenge's own mini caod was just as bad until a system of request access & strict moderation was put in place, now it is the default place for event and battle reports. much, much better then caod, yet asking ccp to do the same here would be asking too much. they wouldn't need a few moderators without a social or work life, they would need an army. 300 moderators versus 300k users :pthere is a need for better moderation, that is clear, but expecting a holy grail is unrealistic.putting the responsability with the user is the same as it is now, and no rating system will change human nature.i like the idea to give people tools to filter their view much better. caod is an emo place already, adding ego will make it even worse.maybe the solution is found in ccp's rumoured battlereport update thing, would be great to see that work like what that pl guy came up with, battledb.com (without the ip harvesting if it's done by ccp). that way you'd have a much more focused platform, and could leave caod open as the public toilet."
"heh,quite probably a silly idea ... but what about a completely different angle :-)have caod access based on in game title and skills. corporate pr manager or something, rank 14. enables the pilot to have one open thread on caod per skill level and also controls sovereignty structures in game (handy). add a communication management skill which has a base of say 10 posts a player starts with and 5 more per skill level, players have to delete their own posts in order to make a new one when they want to **** on something but have reached their skill level."
"eve in a nutshell"
"\"oh noes, some people are actually making a effort and contributing to the economy, whatever shall we do, it's like you know, *work*, and ima pirate and pirates never work, work is for idiots, amirite? oo oo, i know, lets blow their **** up and take what is left.\"of course there is sense in it you ****, it is profitable, unlike getting blown up in lowsec.it doesn't make sense either that people keep distorting things this way - until you realize they have interests in being decidedly unreasonable and against fair principles.i'll recap from the op:if concord is involved in blowing you up, you should not collect insurance.that you do get insurance paid for that just artificially lowers the cost of suicide ganking.much has already been said about this many times over. you actually *should* have to incur the cost of the ship sacrificed, not just the the fittings.the current way means the ganker is at a cost advantage equivalent to his ship cost, vs the target. obviously this is hugely disproportional and in favour of the ganker.cost of his modules vs cost of targets cargo and targets modules.instead of cost of his ship+modules vs cost of targets cargo and modules.you can not put the blame on the target that the pirate bum is incapable of making himself do some honest work. it is part of what highsec is for. not for forcing others to be victims of their degenerate \"playstyle\". there will be no budging on this, they'll keep demanding until there is no hisec, no gate guns, no faction/custom police, no consequence for being negative sec status. until, in fact, highsec is effectively like lowsec.as lawless and as dead.face it, nobody wants to be mugger-**** victims. it's not fun and it's not profitable. loss-loss deal.no. there are different ways. exploration, contracts, 0.0 ratting. aw, damn, you got me again, that's work too, amirite? and even in lowsec where you should feel at home and have \"friendly competition\".oh, wait, risk is full-insurance-guaranteed hisec gank, amirite? not, you know, like real risk, where you can actually loose a lot and someone takes the (surviving) fruits of your labour, like that nice a-type you finally got after lots of dud exploration sites."
"edit: some spelling and grammar.point taken. i think you misunderstood how nodes work and are allocated. motsu (for what i know) has his node, like jita. maybe another couple of heavy load systems have that, so you are not sharing nodes with extremely busy systems. node allocation is done on the basis of average usage in the last days and common numbers spikes. part of fw problem is that for most of the day the number of average users in system is low, with some high spike, so part of your problem could be that you share nodes with average usage system and when you get a spike in presences you get lag. dedicating some nodes only to fw won't resolve the problem (i think) as those systems will be hit by the spike in the number of concurrent users all at the same time. your fleets in being, your fleet in combat and your reinforcement will be there all at the same time on a limited number of nodes, so you risk to get all the fw system lagging at the same time. probably it would work better to get you to share your nodes with seldom used 0.0 systems. i think ccp has checked that but a doubt i often have reading how lag/desync work for fw wars is that the problem is somewhere in the sec/faction standing hit mechanism. your fights start with no or reasonable lag but they degenerate very fast. so it seem something that build up during the fight, more than what happen during a \"normal\" fight. as the big difference in a fw fight is that the players will be losing standing with the other faction every time they attack a ship in one of the militias and that require one or more extra check than in normal fights. it would be interesting to try a fleet fight with the same ships/people on the singularity server while they are in the militia and while they are not in it to see if the difference is in that. that could explain the small periods of grace too, as (from what i recall) there have been small changes in the faction standing hit system during those periods."
"that'll teach me to post with an incomplete understanding of how the node system works.i knew jita had it's own node permanently assigned to it, wasn't sure about the other major hubs of the game though.i'm guessing that you're right though. if it were as simple as reconfiguring which systems were handled by each particular node, this would have been solved months ago. it's most likely something conflicting within some ancient piece of code that really shouldn't have any effect on combat, as you said, the standings decreases with the opposing corporation for shooting enemy pilots seems to be the most obvious place to look first.personally, i'm guessing it'll be something daft like a misplaced comma in the code for some obscure part of the game that has nothing to do with fw at all. so, a proverbial needle in a haystack to find."
"rather depressing. after all this time and effort by many people we will press ccp for...hull repair drones (/facepalms)fw has been left to die since its release for all intents and puproses and this is fine.the fw players would like a bit of love but we can do without.we don't like the hate we're getting. since the intention for fixes was released by ccp (what was it ? six months ago ?) they have actually broken vital fw stuff.my pet hate => cloaked plexing : this has been the death blow to the pve part of fw. at least it put it out of its misery.i ask the csm to ask ccp to just give fixing the problems they've caused since they announced they would improve fw a high priority.forget about the lag and further development of fw. we fw players don't ask for much."
"who needs lagless battles and fixes to broken mechanics when we can have hull rep drones instead !!council of stellar mismanagement"
"iilljj1| = same character in evenuff said."
"gonna have to agree here, it'd be nice to see a few different options for fonts in game.something clear cut like tahoma, lucida sans or segoe would be fine in game tbh."
"yes to bringing sexy back."
"it should be changed back."
"/signedi support this petition."
"/signedi've seen videos of the old cyno jump effect and it's definitely something worth seeing. the new effects just don't have the same impact.bring the bang back into it."
"absolutely agree the old cyno animation was much better"
"yes!"
"i'll addend my previous reply with:if this type of change is to be considered, it will need a huge amount of thought before implementation, as it would change one of the fundamental mechanics of the game- ccp will really need to step up to the plate where they haven't in the past- this is a big change, and needs to be thoroughly thought through."
"couldn't agree more, people shouldn't be able to hide behind npc corps."
"/signed again, and free bump"
"i'm in the process of senting 1000-1500 evemails to each shareholder unlocking and relocking bpos.these shareholders don't even have enough shares to sway the vote, yet they're being flooded.what's more i have to do this 1 bpo, 1 click at a time."
"yes please!"
"supported, they need a buff, though not a big one. just a smallish one."
"bamp for a great idea"
"if this is not a reason to rework titans, then what is?a moros got taken into structure by those dd."
"yes please, its just silly the way it works now."
"bump"
"lets more people 'see' a titan and maybe get more ppl involved in the game or working towards more then 'mining/missioning' only. approve."
"1.0"
"supported"
"supported seems silly to have this"
"yes"
"definitely supported. throws a wrench into the seamlessness of the skill queue the way it works now - you have to log in every time a pre-req finishes."
"got to agree here"
"supported for the lulz, and for the sake of full loss info.while yahrr has some point, i'd argue with him.first: loss/loss ratio is counted in wars, not by pirates. and in case of a war loss/loss ratio is one of the most important statistics. just look at rl, and for example wwii... nor germany nor japan could have compete with bank of england, the industrial capacity of the us and the sheer number of manpower from the soviets. it's simple as it is: germany lost as they couldn't cause as much loss as allied could put out, and suffered more loss that her (for germans: his) industrial capacity could have taken.second: pirates never care loss/loss ratio, as they normally shoot at ships for earning isk. podkill doesn't take them anywhere, except when ransoming and hope that 1, the victim has nice implants 2, the victim is a complete idiot and pays.and yes, people usually don't pay, as they most usually get podded after they pay anyway. is this bad for the reputation of pirates? this is a thing that you pirates have to cope with. kill the \"unfair\" pirates, i mean all of them, and frequently, and probably: a, there will be less pirates, so more income for the \"fair\" pirates (if it does make any sense at all) b, there will be more income due to the \"unfair\" pirate loot/salvage for you, c, on the long-term there might be a reputation to pirating, so probably a few pilots will pay the ransom you ask for.the problem with pirating imo, that too much peeps think they have to be pirates. while pirates can earn only the remains of that someone already earned/worked for. just imagine the late medieval carribean sea if 80% of the ships were pirates. or just imagine the same percent at the shores of africa these days. and that's why pirates don't have enough targets today, as they literally infest losec (tho fw helped this a bit). pirating is basically a niche \"market\", and pirate's best weapon is surprise. in lo-sec it's no surprise to find pirates, that's why possible victims simply try to avoid those places first of all, resulting even worse (from pirate aspect) percentage of possible victim ships.sorry for the long offtopic, just had this on my mind after reading yahrr's post."
"ok, fine. you wanna kill off lowsec completely, then by all means, i won't stop you. however, i will not help you./not supported"
"no... it's pirates who complain a lot these days about losec being dead... but first of all: it was them to kill it. i would love to see losec thrive.but: this thread has nothing to do with losec life. we are just offing. but none the less: if you could read out nothing from my post, the best thing to say, that i'm sorry, but i can't help you make losec be a better place to live, because first of all you won't let me. :dedit: so: if you are not supporting my post, that's another question. read the thread title and ops post, and be (or not) supportive to that, but my offtopic post. learn using the forums, eh?"
"already supported, but still supporting.the cons you mention are the greatest part of it... it can make peeps cry out of laughter or **** bricks. either way, more entertainment! the pros are good for war statistics which is also a useful addon.nice proposal!"
"you got a point in your counter post and i gotta admit: loss/loss ratio is only important to me when my corp is bragging about the damage they've done while they actually lost isk. this is also why i just had to quote the line above. way too many people are running around with their guns hot and as their trade is between the store and the gtc buyer a loss means nothing to them, a ransomed + afterwards podded person means more fun etc etc... isn't this called griefing? even while i have an alt who is very good at failing at missions, failing at market, failing at mining etc, the most profit i make comes from ship loot and ship/pod ransoms. those ransoms are a mix between the ship the victim flies/flew and his age. mostly mission runners and lone ratters.there are a lot of discussions lately about moving l4 missions to low sec, which is a bad move imo as everyone goes l3 then. anyway, one of the main reasons for the bears why they don't go to low sec is their overpriced implant set (apparently they don't know about jump clones). i'm not sure how much impact this change will have on that. i mean, if doing damage is your thing, then you'll put double effort in catching those pods after this change. if the number of poddings rises to absurd numbers then it will get even harder to make low sec attractive to carebears. and yes, of course i will get some good results from it next to the (possibly) bad ones: from then on i can go to bc and enter the victim's name to look up his previous pod losses and adjust my ransom to that.still, i have to admit that i have mixed feelings about this idea. it's something like a gadget, only then for the pvp people and it *does* sound nice. it has some possible dangers attached to it but i already talked about that. what i really don't get is that if nothing will ever drop from those pods except the corpse, then what's the deal with this gadget? it's useless. i would double like the idea if the pod stays a pod, and the corpse can be dropped at a medical facility to get some cheap implants recovered from the corpse's head (like if he had high grade, you get low grade, if he had +4 then you get +3 etc etc). this way it would do about the same and more, you get to know his implants, you get some stuff from it, it adds another little bit of fun to eve and it reduces server load a very little tiny bit (every item in space is another item, so...). but it would cost a lot more time to code, which is bad ofc."
"not supported... anything..and i do mean anything that boosts the ego and e-peen stroking that kill mails cause is something i want nerfed very badly."
"can't see why not."
"well now, i never though i'd hear myself saying this, but: well said!i feel so dirty nowas you might have noticed by now, i am fully capable of using the forums, to the best advantage. forum pvp is not only the best pvp, but a form of artmy post was not directed at you. so, um... well now: stop emo nerd raging!right, now that we've got the formalities out of the way, i would like to add, i'm not a pirate myself, and i think there should be an option in eve to play as a marshal. if this was possible, i would be living in lowsec, hunting all the scum that live there.besides, killing a pod w/implants has very little meaning to an alliance. in fact, it will only serve to get more people kicked because they lost more isk, and caused the alliance to have negative statsi think killmails should be removed alltogether. if you can't gauge how much damage you are doing to your enemy, then:1. does it matter?2. if it does matter, should you really be fighting them?3. so what if you do more isk damage, you think they can't earn more?4. how do you know how much isk they have?5. if you know how much isk they have, then why do you need killmails?6. surely, if you know how much isk they have, then figuring out how much isk they've lost shouldn't be too hard, and if it is, you definatively shouldn't be leading a corp/allliance in to war.so, take your retalin, and get over yourself. having a massive e-peen will not make your wife appreciate you more. spending more time with your wife will."
"there is no reason to see this other than increasing the e-peen.why would anyone need to know how much damage they caused on a pod other than to increase the e-peen? that is personal damage and no overall statistics of the corp/alliance so in the end pretty useless.not supported."
"i'm not used to 0.0 stuff. no bombs for me in low sec. why my statement is proven wrong by your reason i cannot understand as you talk about how you can solo in a bomber but quoted something totally different.anyway let's get back on topic..."
"there's nothing wrong with covert ops cloaks the way they are.i'd be all for allowing standard cloaks to be probed out with specialist training and equipment, but not covert ops cloaks. it takes long enough to train the skills to use the ships effectively, the payoff for that investment is the ability to conceal yourself."
"what its was a specific module that merely extended the uncloak range form 2000m to something else say 50k. make is highly skill intensive to be effective(matching the co-ops skill ) and allow it to be fit to ewar ships. this was if you have a hidy cloaker you can sweep your systems for them. although 50k might be a little much as it would make take the gate camp escape advantage away.or a grid wide pulse that would decloke a ship for a mille second so that you could at least work your way towards them this pulse module could also be a pos mod maybe?just suggestions it would add an interesting dynamic if cloakers werent completely safe. i mean no one else is when you guys are around :p"
"i dont like this idea. cloak fuel is a better one"
"this also is a pretty good idea"
"could potentially stop an entire 0.0 macro game. however this would probably mean more macro's in lvl 4 hubs.to the op, no... no... no... i don't need to say more."
"i agree to anything that increases the tactical options of warfare."
"yes we don't have to worry about tracking at all. instead our damage is directly reduced, even if the target is heading right at us.do the research before posting. kthxbye"
"there are two ways to reduce missile damage: sig radius, or velocitythere are two ways to reduce turret damage: sig radius, or angular velocityturrets have an optimal range and do reduced damage beyond that rangemissiles have an optimal range and do 0 damage if the target is even 1km beyond that range. so far, missiles do not seem to be coming out way ahead here. i do think qr overall helped missiles though. overall. cruises are kind of pointless in pvp now and rockets just suck terribly, as does most t2 missile ammo, but at least you can use torps, and heavy missiles actually might pose a threat to fast moving cruisers."
"/signed"
"so i've skimmed almost this entire topic and have yet to see any proof that missile dps is substantially worse than turret dps when compared with equivalent sized turrets at various speeds and orbit types.from my experience fighting missile ships in pvp they are still competitive with turrets when fit properly and are immune to tracking disruption to boot.this topic needs actual proof if you guys want to change anything."
"only thing i want right now is to be able to use a missile against the ship size it was meant for without losing damage because that ship is moving at base velocity.or a module to increase explosion velocity..."
"you want curses/pilgrim to roll with a set of ogre iis?"
"milkbag, i have no particular ships in mind for these modulesi just think they would be a much needed boost in fitting options regarding drones, especially for us drone enthusiast"
"itt carebears getting butthurt because their only method of greifing pirates-killing themselves- is being threatened"
"better yet, anyone who appears on the killmail should get a copy of the killmail. this would solve the problem with minimal change as the kill record aleady contains characterid's of all those who should get a copy, it is just a matter of tweeking the query that retrieves the killmail for display instead of altering how a killmail is generated and processed. a player who self-destructs would simply appear as one of those who did damage to himself, provided that he is not bumped of the killmail by those who did more damage.it would also get rid of complaints about killmails being lost because a minor contributer happened to lay the final blow."
"no.if you can't kill the guy in two minutes, you don't deserve a kill mail.it's just like in chess, when you know there is no way your going to win. you kill our own king."
"kill should be a kill, whether it's two minutes or two hours. why should longer, more epic, and frankly harder fights get the fun factor out when the cap or supercap pilot realizes he's going to eventually lose and trys to erase all evidence of the event? why should anyone hoping to keep an accurate record of fighting be forced to fabricate the very killmails that are supposed to serve as such records?i agree there should be some effect for self destruct. a redacted killmail, hiding the fit for instance, would be fine by me. no loot dropping, also fine. however spoiling the moment for a small gang of pilots over coming the odds and pulling down cap ships simply because they're a small gang of pilots trying to over come the odds and pull down a cap ship just so the cap pilot can cover up his mistake and smooth some cream on his ego is bad design. small gang warfare is punished enough in this game, removing the thrill of a david vs goliath type victory is pointless and i'm glad to see some of the csm up in this thread.edit: some kind of draw back for the self destructor would be passable such as the incapacitation of all mods due to heat damage or something like that."
"well, if the pirates would quit griefing us, we wouldn't need to."
"nerf km's... don't buff them.add to that.... if your going to self destruct... denying someone the satisfaction of killing you.... then you deserve nothing as your attacker gets nothing."
"i agree. a standard killmail should provide only shiptype killed and what system it happened in. a new skill should be introduced to gather additional intelligence from the wreck by taking the time to scan for insignia, data in destroyed computer logs, parts identification (to determine the fit), molecular makeup of wrecked parts (ammo types, cargo, etc). basically make it work like salvaging except you're \"datamining\" the wreck. also make it time and percent based like salvaging so that the higher the skills the faster and more complete data you obtain. onboard scanners should work, no modules required. this would put a new spin on post-explosion combat. allies could defend or even destroy (at the cost of surviving modules and salvage) friendly wrecks to keep intel out of enemy hands."
"i agree. a standard killmail should provide only shiptype killed and what system it happened in. a new skill should be introduced to gather additional intelligence from the wreck by taking the time to scan for insignia, data in destroyed computer logs, parts identification (to determine the fit), molecular makeup of wrecked parts (ammo types, cargo, etc). basically make it work like salvaging except you're \"datamining\" the wreck. also make it time and percent based like salvaging so that the higher the skills the faster and more complete data you obtain. onboard scanners should work, no modules required. this would put a new spin on post-explosion combat. allies could defend or even destroy (at the cost of surviving modules and salvage) friendly wrecks to keep intel out of enemy hands.that would give an interesting edge towards warfare between parties, especially if they can't figure out what they are up against. i like this.the only downside is that you will no longer get to have a good laugh about a lolfit, but ah well sacrifices must be made ."
"sov 4* holders should be able to give solar systems 'nicknames' insteed of (not replacing) the alpha numeric codes;so instead of 'qx-850' we can have 'horizon' or somthing else in line with ship naming conventions and not replicated in elsewhere, this could then be propogated across the database as an alias to the alphanumeric true system name... meining you could link either and it would point to the same place.*or whatever replaces it"
"first, aditionally, supporting myself."
"no support. you get to name outposts, that is fine. however, the database issues with this idea are rather staggering. also, i don't need some alliance renaming all their systems to some annoying name. fine as it is now.--isaac"
"the existing ability to name conquerable stations/outposts is abused enough as it is without even more offensive names dotting up all over the map.not supported./ben"
"while it's tempting, i feel the need to remind you that this is a game that contains goonswarm. not supported (if you want the more serious answer, it's sort of unnecessary, and will yield long-term confusion when people start talking about fights that happened in systems where no such name exists)"
"this. the first question any idea should have to answer is wwgd (what would goonswarm do)."
"been waiting a year for my logistics and commandship skills for the eos to be meaningful.completely useless ship as it stands."
"i agree with this tbh... the eos was a hell of a ship before the changes. i'd rather see it's number of turret hardpoints cut, and it's bandwidth increased to allow for it to field a full compilment of heavies.the only real true droneboats the gallente have are the dominix, the vexor and the half-assed ishtar. considering pf tells us they fought a whole war using drones to even the numbers, their ships combat capability with drones certainly doesn't reflect it."
"man this is so true.i'd love to have the old eos back, but i know that it's not possible.so if ccp don't want to give us an eos with heavy drones then i'd like to have a useful gang bonus at least.but your point is so true, and if they cut turret hardpoints i can't see the problem."
"the problem with the eos is that the information bonuses only affect other ships if they have the associated module fit. the only exception is the one that increases your sensor strength, but it really does not affect you enough. if a falcon/rook is using the right racial on you, chances are, your jammed anyways.in todays pvp settings, having any of the other three fleet command ships is far more prefered than the information bonuses. each race is geared towards what its race is more known for. caldari is shield, amarr is armor and minmitar is speed. so for gallente, what stands out about it more than any other race?dronesso how about bonuses that affect drones (maybe even fighters?)i think it would put the ship right up there in line with the others if it affected the gangs drones, what do you all think??"
"i support a review of the eos. the nerfs to info warfare links were unneeded at the time and are killing this ship today. specifically, ecm+tracking disruptor strength changes make it unlikly they need the eos' link (sensor damps have fallen into disuse almost entirely but that is another thread) and the meager, tiiiiny sensor strength boost the other link provides counts for nothing against the modern jammer.take pity on it."
"i raised this issue before when the previous carebear and 0.0 only csm was in office. of course they refused to even consider the issue, with one csm delegate stating that he would prefer to see war decs either eliminated altogether in hi sec or limited to one at a time. for the privateers our there, the working guys who are kinda sleepy eyed in the back, the killers amongst us, you know the rank and file dps guys, we need more war in hi sec. hi sec isn't supposed to be totally safe, and the 24 hour limit for a vote, 1 hour delay to implement the vote to a sanctionable action, then 24 hours to implement the action, and only three at a time. well, if you have been an aggressor in hi sec you know what happens: the war target turtles up and doezn't undock, the war target removes items of interest to the attacker, the war target joins an alliance leaves it and then well no more war dec. this needs to be addressed. one partial fix is to raise the limit to 6 with a corresponding increase in charges by concord to saction the activity.iwant urstuffceo iwant urstuff corpp.s. the z'z zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz there trass1er (can't even spell his name right as the real trassler seem to have forum issues) how about some support now?"
"i support my own topic."
"when you take the idea seriously, and highsec wardecs do need looking at, i'll take your thread seriously."
"if you can rephrase this topic without sounding like someone who has +/-1 chromosone i might support it."
"pretty much this."
"well larkonis i see your pretty much like the rezt of thoze previouz csm rezidentz.iwant urstuffceo iwant urstuff corp"
"double pozt weird."
"more industry stuff please, being able to build meta level items between tech 1 and two would be nice too :)"
"my lord yes, building anything out of a pos 'lab' with more then a few people quickly has become a nightmare. please get this supported and fixed asap.-kara"
"i proposed a similar thread a while back, but this one talks about some things that mine didn't. supported, because seriously, the whole system is incredibly lame."
"thumb"
"given the new ideas, i see a way this could work. if we could have the corp hangar array or something similar link to the research labs (as they don't require that much space to use) rather than each one having their own hangar, it should mesh with the current codebase quite easily. the current moon mining/reaction system already works this way.combining all the research slots could easily be accomplished using this method as well, as they would all tie back to the same module. therefore, all labs and hangars would be tied to the same key module, meaning each pos, regardless of the number of labs, would only have one option on the drop-down menu.in this light, supported."
"egads... if that's what i have to look forward too... please fix!"
"would love to simply have it drop you back to the character select screen."
"definitely supported. or make an official ccp supported kill board. but i suspect this is easier."
"another hack ontop of the lag inducing, resource chewing, poorly designed, km system.rework it from the ground up, remove all the over-head, remove the mails, improve the api."
"supported... not much more else to say really."
"support native aa+hdr. no need for isk though!"
"the following characters have been paid their isk for participation asof tuesday 16.jun 09 21:35 (gmt+1):veronethe isk of dapperdrake will be given to the next noob i come across, as requested by him.the isk of razin has not been sent, as requested by him."
"*skill to allow courier contracts to reach 800,000 m<U+FFFD> or just outright set it to that limit*preferred stock option in the corp/alliance. akin to shares but w/o voting rights*limited api access to corp members would be nice...rather than have to gather api from each individuali was pressed for time and didn't get to fill in my list*let amarr finally have differing damage types... last i read (been awhile) that energy weapons can't do anything but em therm. yet we have smart bombs in the game that can pulse energy of all for types of damage. and yes let the last race also have the benefit too.*fix the concord exploit... you see it in or near jita often enough. not bashing here but i am just amazed in all this time its still on going and yet we have smarter ai sleepers *shrugs**could be wrong here, but didn't we used to be able to audit corp hangars? regardless a way to track assets would be nice..w/o having to go through each and every member or station containe"
"1) you mean 981,250 m<U+FFFD>. supported. 2) one of many things the stock system needs. 3) not supported. if you want it, ask your membership for it. that said, i don't think the csm can reasonably advance a set of unrelated topics. if you want these to be raised, split them up. if you don't, post this on f+i."
"1. yes. not urgent, but useful.2. yes. anything with stocks is good.3. hell no. ask for an api and no sometimes means no for many possible reasons.as a package: no support."
"it's become pretty common for the nos/neut to be used to counter light ships in close (not even that close with large) and pretty much take them right out of the fight by sucking their capacitor dry.perhaps some kind of tracking system for these or some similar reduced effect based on sig radius?just seems strange that a heavy neut can hit an interceptor every time when it's whipping by in close where the guns cannot."
"seems fine to me. it's a countermeasure big ships can fit against little ones that is usable, but doesn't result in a complete wtfpwning."
"i know this is a fairly drastic suggestion, and one that a lot of people will probably not be in support of, but it is needed from what i can tell. given recent information, some changes to the proposal have been made.background:when ccp first released eve, it had a lot of stuff that isn't here now and they added a lot of stuff to the code over the years. due to coders leaving and being hired, the code has basically turned into a big pile of spaghetti, with some subroutines probably left over from aeons past.suggestion:instead of releasing a new patch, have the code monkeys work on taking the existing physics (as you know how to code everything, but you need to put it together to make sense), and rewrite key sections from a blank slate using the knowledge you have. codes can be upgraded and problems fixed during this time.i know it's probably going to be a gradual action over a fair bit of time. this game has been around for a long time, and technology has advanced. while ccp has taken advantage of that new technology (with issues such as trinity and such), the codebase could stand to be repaired.advantages:* fix any loopholes in the current code, including ones you might not know were there, before we get another pos exploit.* transfer calculations to the server where needed and to the client where needed, creating an easier calculation system with less database calls (hopefully).* create a coherent, modern eve client.* get rid of extraneous code that is sucking up system resources (even if the only resource is disk space).* fix some problems with the code, regenerating key points in the game (mining, ui, sovereignty, fw, et al)disadvantages:* will require a huge amount of effort on the coders part.* might require a large amount of time to put into effect.* would probably cost a lot to do, but the effort would pay off in the long-run./me dons his fireproof suit and waits for the backlash."
"/me lobs match at bunyipsorry... tis all i got!but seriously... your making a very big assumption here...an understanding of the base code. unless you have the source code in your pocketsssss... and not just client... but server (snow balls chance in hell you'll see that) you'll likely get a large no from ccp because they know more than you do about the coding.yes.. i agree... re-coding would work... but then you have more than just alot of effort... your reinventing the wheel.not supporting due to the obvious pitfall here and lack of knowledge on that code.... i would support it if it was public knowledge in the sense that the other code monkeys would say it needs a rewrite."
"not cost effective, but a really cleaned up reworked code base might be easier to maintain and enhance in the future. since we don't actually know anything about the code itself though this isn't csms call.i think they should make it open source personally."
"yes, it's true, i don't know the codebase, nor half as much as i would like to know about python. however, it's basic knowledge that whenever you add to or remove from the codebase, you have extraneous code and issues which may still be unknown but could pop up in the future.eve has been around for six years, and in that time they've released eleven patches which added new content and/or changed existing content. unless they went through the code with a fine-toothed comb every time they released a new patch (which would be prohibitively expensive), the code is a mess of unused subroutines and procedure calls that are no longer necessary.what i'm thinking is that, when the csm goes to reykjavik in the summer, they should bring the issue up with the coders. hopefully, they'll be able to ascertain just how bad the code is, and whether a rewrite would be called for or not.in that light, this isn't a 'do it' proposal, but rather a 'bring the issue up and see if it's needed and feasible' proposal. it's kind of a kill all the birds with one stone idea, rather than a specific part of the game that is in dire need of repair."
"won't happen... ccp wouldn't be able to make any money off of it.... hands would be tied down effectively....and then you'd get the imitation war's and such."
"you're making a suggestion on something you know absolutely nothing about."
"as long as it's done incrementally i support this.i mean that code is rewritten over time; a little in this patch, a little more in that one. granted that would take longer, but it would help ccp by not breaking their current cycle, and they can continue adding content/making expansions.editeven i, a mediocre coder in learning, know that old projects can only get better by rewriting it. by uncluttering the codebase, if nothing else."
"in theory regular refactoring (that's programmer speak for rewriting code to make it cleaner) is a good thing and fixes more than it breaks.in practice, practice is rarely like the theory.i'm not going to say no, never, but this is defiantely something that should be approached from the ccp side, not the csm."
"i don't think that the csm has enough information about the problems in the code base to ask for this without sounding like presumptive fools. a general statement that we're willing to support a slowdown of new features to fix old problems, wherever they may crop up, is a reasonable statement for the csm to make. \"you guys need to rewrite all your server code\" is not - we have no way of even beginning to judge the cost/benefit on that one. if ccp feels it necessary, we ought to support them, but we can't ask for it ourselves. not supported."
"i agree with this."
"as crazy as it might sound, i think he's on to something. i think this might solve a lot of bug issues. after all, how many games have you played that lived as long as eve?/supported"
"this. the matter of the fact is that rewriting new bits of code within an old code can lead to new bugs just as we see today, if they rewrite new code within old code things will break. writing the code completely from the base up is the only way to improve it but i don't see ccp doing this any time soon."
"i can find 40 would be contract scammers whose contracts i wish to ignore in a single afternoon. the extremely meager 80 slots we get is nowhere near enough given the ubiquitous nature of contract scammers (caused by the risk free/highly rewarding nature of contract scamming). i think a list closer to 200 or 400 would be better, and should be a quick and easy fix. it might only be temporary, but at least it might give enough buffer to ignore sufficient contract scammers that the ones first added to the list are no longer in use, and their slots can be recycled."
"assuming it can be done without unreasonable lag, supported."
"wholeheartedly agree."
"why not."
"at the risk of sounding supercilious and confrontational, if you have said \"no\" that many times it would also mean it has been requested that many times thereby proofing beyond any shadow of a doubt that there are a larger number of pilots who would actually appreciate a small change such as this than the nay-sayers in this thread. my preference is for a static change to 22 or 20 hours instead of 24 but using a skill would seem to be the way ccp does things."
"to be balanced i think it would need to be:rank 6-infomorph psychology v-science vand for the sake of linking it with a clone bay in a cap-cloning facility operation iiiwhich i might add/remind has its own higher prerequisitesand is a rank 10 if it was linked to cloning facility operation in this way, i think the time reduction would be more like 2 hours per leveli think this could be introduced in a balanced way but dont really have an honest opinion as to whether its justifiable or necessary. i might comeback and vote in favor after further consideration..... well see"
"at the risk of sounding supercilious and confrontational, if we have said \"no\" that many times it would also mean that this proposal has been shot down, rejected, beaten to a pulp, and thrown out by ccp itself. and there are a large number of ignorant stupid pilots who seem to think that it can be brought back up and given credence.the only naysayer here is the one in denial of this fact.... end of discussion."
"i don't agree with this, purely because of what one of the first replies was.eve is too small already and needs to be made much larger. perhaps if the game environment was much larger then it'd make sense to reduce the timer, but with space as small as it is now, it doesn't make sense to me to do so.i use jumpclones a fair bit in comaprison to most to travel beween a few of our corp offices that are far apart, it's perfectly fine the way it is given the size of the game environment."
"here we go again with this eve is too small garbage argument. the wait to clone jump should be the same amount of time it takes to auto pilot from one end of eve to the other end. anyways i support the op's idea. if this idea benefited 0.0 i bet csm would be all over it."
"if you had bothered to read the op you would see that you are wrong. ms are more expensive and in many ways weaker or the same as a carrierless jumprange same rep and rr ammount same per drone dps"
"it has more drones, it does not need grater per drone dps. it is either more drones, either more dps per drone, not both at the same time."
"a jumprange boost would not make ms overpowered, having a range the same as carriers would be reasonable , but jumping clear across the galaxy in 1 jump as suggested by your jumpdrive/mass hypothesis is clearly insane.ms have more slots enabling more cap recharge or resists , effectivelly increasing sustainable rr or effecitve local rep or recived rrms can launch more drones than a carrier. per drone damage is irrelevant.ms are 2x - 3x times more powerful than a carrier as can be expected for there 15x pricetag.ms are not broken , its just your expectations as too what 15b isk should buy that is broken.there are many different frigs/cruisers/bs making direct comparion difficult.my proportions are very appoximate to illustrate a point.if you would like to make a graph of firepower+defence / isk cost for a more accurate analysis, please continue.\"all eve ships offer diminishing returns for isk invested.\" <<< this is the important fact to keep in mindif the relationship of isk to firepower were linear eve would have been won long ago by either entity or khatred pressing a button in a planet sized death star for a galaxy wide smartbomb that wiped out every ship/pod/station/clone in existence!!"
"wow!your not going to shoot your parents if they take away eve are you?"
"simple solution:add a high slot, remove a turret hard point. done."
"i'd be perfectly happy if they reverted to it's old model as opposed to the battered fridge of a ship it is now. if not, i'll settle for a third high.supported."
"yes!also, want maulus model back, the imicus is terrible"
"i'm in a mission. a frigate i don't know warps in and begins salvaging my kills, stealing the salvage.she is red to me with a skull....but that could also mean she is just a global enemy.i look at my profile, it doesn't list any kill rights.she's leaving cans behind so i can't tell if she's actually taking any loot, or just stealing the salvage (which apparently yields no repercussions, gg devs).so how do i decide if i should shoot her? i don't want concord on my butt in seconds if i've made a miscalculation.it's clear as hell the moment i'm vulnerable to someone else. it warns me before i loot. and if i do, a big orange flag appears on the top left with a countdown.there should be an equally sufficient notification system to let us know when we can kill them."
"how about you try shooting at her. if a warning pops up telling you that you aren't authorized to shoot, take the option to cancel the attack. if there is no warning then you are free to attack.otherwise just check your overview settings, you can make it as clear as you want. red highlight is fair game under the current defaults. doesn't get much simpler than that."
"the only thing i can clearly say is if they are blinky blinky to you... you can shoot them.but the rules of aggro are just down right ridiculous at times.example:miner and hauler and miner in fleet...all same corp.can tipper tips can.... aggro should spread to fleet right? hauler just \"happeneded\" to have warp scrambler... don't ask why... call it a funny mentaility.hauler got concorded....explain that!all i can say is they saw the warning... and the target was red skulled but not blinky blinky....: o pand yes it was funny but sad at the same time..."
"until the point where you know by yourself which ships you can shoot at and which ships you can't shoot at, which weapons you will need to have and which fittings are viable pvp fittings to do so, don't shoot anyone. the only thing you achieve is getting yourself ganked. still, the system can be horribly confusing to new players. could use some overhaul."
"i'm with ya on this one. the silly rules of agression, standings, and security status are some of the main reasons i stay as far outside of empire space as much as possible. i humbly invite you to join those of us who have moved out of that rats nest into the free skies of 0.0 space."
"i'm gonna stop you right here. as it's been stated numerous times before by the devs, salvaging someone elses wrecks is not considered stealing."
"-2 points for failure to read the next couple sentances in the original post"
"it's not considered stealing by the devs, game mechanics, or a lot of people.however, other people might consider it stealing. state they're wrong all you want; it doesn't make you any more right."
"hello people?! can't you read the bloody op before making an assumption?the wrecks where looted and salvaged...sheesh! epic fail posts galore!"
"more drone bpo's for me to sell? heck ya!"
"at present, many t2 ships (above frigate size) are simply recoloured versions of their t1 counterparts. the trinity models seem to have done away with the 'wibbles' on many of the creodron ships, and the missile bays on the duoville ones. let's look at the eos for example. it's a green brutix. that it... the classic model had some interesting bits and pieces on it that actually suggested it might've been a command ship. the same goes for the helios, sin, lachesis, nemesis, keres and a large number of other gallente ships. for trinity, their t1 models were simply recoloured and left at that. as i'm a pure gallente pilot, i can't comment on the state of other race's t2 ships. (i think a few caldari ships have a similar problem)propose that ccp make small additions to t2 ships that make them feel more unique, as opposed to recoloured t1 stuff."
"gallente ships currently need more than a graphical overhaul. making them useful would be a great start. even if they were given a graphical overhaul i wouldn't fly them."
"maybe in 2-3 years well actually need an expansion to the known universe of eve, but right now these kind of ideas and others that are being tossed around are what we really neednot supported"
"it's not a lack of systems that makes the eve universe, in its current state, seem to small. it is the speed at which these systems can be traversed. the importance of distance has dropped exponentially in the last few years. first, it was wtz, which, unfortunately, was more of a iron-on patch to fix the database woes caused by bm's than an intended feature. second, the introduction of jump freighters, allowing bulk movement over vast distances, and more recently, black ops moving transports, diminishing the importance of traversing dangerous pipes for high-value cargo. adding more systems will not really fix any of these problems, as the new larger system will still feel small, as you'd still be able to get from a->b in a very short time, you would just see even fewer people while doing it."
"gotta agree with this... i miss the days when you could go like 20-30 jumps and maybe run into 1 or 2 people. sounds wierd but i also miss it actually taking time to get places.it made the thrill of the hunt so much more fun.space is too crowded and too small these days."
"take off that white shinny bit in the background while you're at it.only way to browse eve-online.com is with a custom css re-setting all the colours to readable ones."
"i edited it for you and randomly insulting people is not needed.anyway, take a look at the other topic out there ("
"3rd party apps usually point the way.bacon was popular, worked well, it freed up people so they could both work and play eve.this allows people to participate without having their eyes 100% focused on local for hours on end.bacon met the users requirements.instead of removing local, make it better, make it flash red and eve grab window focus when hostiles enter system.in-game alerts to negative standing encounters would be a usability boon.however history has shown us ccp has zero interest in usability. only sinks."
"this is not a universal missile problem, it's basically a problem with cruise missiles alone, which are used for long range sniping, and are utterly pointless in pvp because of their horrendously long travel time. i don't know how to fix it, given other missiles are generally performing roughly where they need to be (various t2 ammos excepted)if there's one missile system that needs work it is rockets. those could be fixed simply by boosting damage and explosion velocity, etc. making cruise missiles usable at the ranges turret ships snipe at would take a whole lot of work imo."
"this game is more hardcore, demands more and is focused more heavily on player competition, than most modern mmos. removing those hardcore features would be very damaging to this game. eve can't cater to everyone equally or the dynamic and complex world we have will die or change to mmo clone #???. so while the attitude we have is at times very aggressive and rude, it has a basis in the context of this game. we love this game, we have tried other games, so we know what they are like and copying their features would kill everything we love about this game. so how exactly am i supposed to answer to people too stupid to usually even see the effects their ideas have to the game? should i pretend their ideas have merit, because they are blind or don't care about those effects? it really doesn't seem unwaranted to say, that their ideas should never be implemented in this game and direct them to a game i know already caters to their desires.i don't think i'm better than them, but i don't value the things they value and love the things they hate. what i think makes my views better, is that i try to take into consideration the whole context. that context is eve. any person that ignores the dynamics and the nature of the game(insert the usual whine about the harsness and lack of handholding) in his views, deserves a few harsh words. people that see the whole picture and disagree with me or point out the flaws in my thinking are ok in my book."
"yes.its a good thing.horrible game changes arent hard to trace to whining from 'new blood' used to other mmo's that think eve is too hard or 'unfair'. i dont like people ****ing in the sandbox.i am considering finding out just how horrible i can be to players i dont think 'fit' this game before i am into banhammer territory. call it a pre-emptive strike if you will, or maybe i had an unpleasant childhood or maybe i am a real life sociopath!"
"nice spread of issues there, its the little things sometimes that make the most difference. has anyone voiced interest in picking up the proposal to look at having sentry guns not engage drones or to have them treat drones as a low priority target over player ships?"
"hey! its time for hull tankers to get some love! seriously voted for it but hull rep drones are not something i think are going to make eve any better.issler"
"when quoting statistics about the numbers of individuals involved in fw it is far more usefull to consider those whom are actually active- and by this i do not simply mean those whom log on and play the game but those that take an active role in fw features; be that fighting the militia directly or even roleplaying.fw is in reality one facet of eve. one of many.i totally understand that some of you have legitimate interests in fw and raise valid issues it has, but the csm is not a body solely dedicated to improving factional warfare.railing at the csm for not continuous raising an issue acknowledge by ccp previously and documented on the forums since by devs. accomplishes nothing; aside likely re-inforcing the emerging negative steryotypes of the contributions those involved with fw have made and are trying to make to game dev.further, raising issues that are not solely connected and pertaining to fw but are things that need to be looked at by ccp in the wider game and failing to acknowledge, realize and or address this is miring your own cause somewhat. the recent csm minutes make for interesting reading in this regard."
"we need a couple of choices ingame"
"size too"
"going to have to agree with this one.no point in having a t2 frig when the t1 version is better.give the t2's a 4th bonus."
"makes sense /signed"
"/signed"
"csm we are asking you to take this back, and represent it correctly, in the official manner it should have been taken to ccp to start with."
"bump"
"don't like the idea of the new technical security role suggested (a lot of responsibilty assigned to one person), nor of cutting shareholders out of the process (shareholders like to know what's going on).being able to do it en masse is very good idea, though, and has been brought up many times in the past.giving support; not for all the ideas, but definitely worth having something done. the 1 by 1 is a real pita, and a change for the way it's done is well overdue.edit: helps if i actually clock the support button."
"seems it's bugged as well. got through about 200 bpos and now it's telling they're all pending votes when there are no votes open."
"supported."
"supported. i use the blizzard authenticator myself and it's a great thing. i still keep my password secret and complex (it's over ten characters long with mixed up letters, numbers and special characters). i never had a virus in my life and i've always been using a windows based system (since 1995). i still feel safer with my blizzard authenticator and would feel the same if i had one for eve online."
"viruses and key loggers are not the only thing that can contribute to account hacking. a friend of mine got his world of warcraft account hacked, and he was *very* careful. his system didn't have any viruses or spywares, and no key loggers either. he still doesn't know to this day how he got hacked, which is the whole point of hacking.if you don't want to use such a device yourself, it's your decision, but if someone would feel more secure by using one, then why not?it wouldn't affect anyone who's not using one, and it wouldn't create more lag or affect login servers. there's just no drawback from having this option. therefore i don't see why it should be ignored."
"supported."
"there should be one every 2 or 3 months.no joke!just turn sisi in armageddon mode on the 1st of every month...i'm shaking just by thinking about that."
"i think this is a great idea. it would be cool if it could be held as a once-a-year week long event, or one day out of the a month."
"armageddon day, memories. just please with the full hardware of tq ... no sisi experiments :peither that, or do something different. a week where ccp staff get tossed into an alliance we all can ally with or fight with or invade or defend against. something along those lines. obviously ccp employees would get endangerment pay during that week"
"/signedit was a really good moment and it would be great if this event can be reproduced few times a year."
"supported!"
"there is! its called a jump freighter!oh... wait."
"agreed. my issue with the orca is, that i don't wanna skill a ****load of mining skills just for the purpose of hauling.not all haulers are miner or mining alts. don't force us to skill the mining branch just to use a ship between industrial and freighter (which i both can fly without mining skills..)"
"thumbs up for hauling.it would make a great next step for newer haulers such as myself to be able to handle bigger cargo loads without having to find a way to sc**** together the full cost of a freighter."
"so you want a half freighter? orca. or if youre lazy use a normal freighter and train your nav skills past 1."
"gallente ew ships need love, supported"
"i've not played eve for a good year or two and at the time i went inactive titans were not too common, a few alliances might field 2 of them at the same time. even then though, the dd made fights rather boring (once the novelty wore off).the typical fight was x vs n, warp in, get dd'd, fight over. or, 200 hostiles warp in, they get dd'd, fight over. either way, the fleet bs/support have little to do aside from mop up those few that escaped the dd, who are in no way likley to offer a decent fight having lost so much of their fleet.this, regardless of whether you're on the winning or losing side, is not imo all that much fun.having returned to the game recently and seeing just how many titans are now in the game and can be fielded in one go, i agree with most posters in this thread that there needs to be some change.yaays idea has a lot of merit. it still enables dds to be powerful when used tactically, yet they're no longer going to end a fight a few seconds after it has begun. at least, not without still allowing both sides to engage and blow each other up for a bit.whatever the final change is (i hope there is one) dd's need to lose their direct damage capability and instead influence/shape the combat field in a different way.on a related note, can we get an increase in the jump bridge range of titans? from 2.5km to 5 or 10?dd usage shouldn't be limited by the grid either, it should be distance based."
"supported"
"that still happens, it's just the blobs now consist of dd-tanked battleships and hic's."
"supported."
"supported"
"i am not 100% on the op, but it's close enough."
"and don't make us have to manually leave ship and incur the hangar timer!"
"supported. should be a quite minor patch in code and is for sure a ui improvement."
"lol, one more for less hassle!"
"i think there's no valid reason not to have them on the killmails. it would be logical to see them."
"pretty much this, tbh."
"not needed. there is already enough epeen bragging in eve and i dont want it to become something counterstrike like.."
"some mechanism would be good, and i fly cloaked ships so it'd hurt me a bit, but i'm in favour of something.imho hanging around stationary cloaked for hours should not be a safe thing to do. i don't think the the %age chance thing is in keeping with the new scanning in eve; so how about this...a combination of a new type of scan probe to get within 500km of a cloaked ship using present scanning, and them a module that improves the direction scan to be able to find cloaked ships (difficult to fit except perhaps in limited t2 ships like a combat recon, t2 destroyer or something).so typical scenario would be ship warps off and cloaks, adversary scans down, but 'signature' is a large sphere.warping to signature puts you within 500km of ship then you need to use directional scan to find and uncloak it.if you're in a ship with a normal cloak then you'll have to keep an eye on your directional scan for scan probes and uncloak and warp before they warp in or risk being tracked down. covert ops ships can warp cloaked so can warp if they see someone arrive.adds to the cat and mouse game, allows the lazy who warp off and cloak to be tracked down, however people who are alert should be as safe as they are at the moment."
"not supporting scanning of cloaked vessels (regardless of size).fuel requirements for cloaks i would get behind, though. been wanting that for years."
"indeed. make highsec more interesting."
"please"
"very good idea!supported."
"this would make life as fleet salvager who has to sell and refine the stuff at the end so much easier."
"it seem apparant to me that the people who request this, does not seem to have a clue as to what items are worth anything. so i assume, that you are all new to the game, or have a learning handicap.my procedure:<U+FFFD> i open the stacked containers for ammo, rigs and items<U+FFFD> i do a \"stack\" and \"sort\" on my loot before tossing it into the hangar<U+FFFD> then another \"stack\" command for all the content in the hangar<U+FFFD> then i toss the all the ammo into an open container in one go<U+FFFD> then toss all the rig components into another open container in one go<U+FFFD> then i go over each row and sell individual items<U+FFFD> then i drag items worth saving into an open items container<U+FFFD> leftovers are reprocessed in one goi am interested in learninga about how this meta sorting would work if you intend to mix the loot into the hangar."
"pretty much to help with the above item you list in your process, which may come much sooner in other people's process. all meta 4 stuff to the top of the list; unnamed stuff to the bottom. not saying that there aren't some unnamed items that are valuable, but another method of sorting seems pretty unobtrusive for people who don't do things like you've described.supported."
"i just want to add that a 425mm railgun i, is worth about 1 mil isk, yet its meta number is \"none\". not even 1 :d"
"yup. so, with sorting by meta number it would go with all the other items without meta numbers, below the '1s'.dohl"
"you do the exact same damage regardless of whether the target is heading right at you or at it's maximum transversal against you, and have no worries about falloff. that's a huge advantage over turrets, especially minmatar ones. by the time your target is within the optimal of a projectile turret, they're probably close enough to mitigate damage via transveral.just because your missiles don't always do their theoretical maximum damage doesn't mean they should. this is eve, not eft."
"so when are they going to un-nerf rockets?"
"30vs30 battles in fw lag more than 300vs300 battles in 0.0we definetly need to know what's going on and why it is not fixed yet!"
":dedit: i blame lag every time nephilim xeno kills me!"
"endorsed"
"i - also - want to know what's going on with fw."
"have you ever killed a battleship (say, pvp buffer only fit) with a handful of frigates? it's not easy, and it takes more than two minutes. with the exception of failfits, it generally requires the small ships to capitalize on mistakes. i fail to see how such attackers don't \"deserve\" a combat log entry just because they didn't blob with overwhelming numbers. not showing the fittings is fine, but a record of the event should be had."
"spam is not allowed.applebabe"
"seriously? one no would have been sufficient."
"supported if it's kept to just sov 4 systems; once given a name, it can't be changed; and the system of renaming involves a fee and submitting it for approval to concord (ccp)"
"heh."
"this ship needs review"
"eos need rebalance."
"supported."
"the way those command bonusses were given to the different races always has been quirky.minmattar command ships got hurt by the speednerf and gallentean ones by the ew nerf.and the amarrian ones are mostly using in fleets because of their armor tank bonusses.maybe it would be interesting to change it to one command role bonus out of the 12 per command ship and enable 2 extra bonus with the use of rigs. and to make up for the lost rig slots you could give the ship some extra racial bonus like mentioned by others. and even might add some new warlink types to go with bonus rigs. giving command ships the ability to set up for special task forces."
"eos with newly introduced drone warfare links"
"/signed"
"/signedsmall things is that players can see the most, especialy when it is about ui.for exemple, i hate the automatic resizing of the icons of \"selected items\". i want them big all the time same if it has to take more than one line (like before, in short), but ccp decide to make them like that... a small, but seriously annoying thing, as now i have a big overview to workaround...ccp always has problems with ui. they never understand what it means.it would be easy to let players do it themselves, ie customizable ui. well, not easy to program, certainly, but a so great capacity of control for players.that would correct some problems, like the op one, but i doubt that anything will be done same if there was a massive support.indeed, ccp has a caracteristic : they are too fierce to rollback and correct a bad change."
"someone mentioned usability, damn right on the money. but not just that, visual impairements like anomalous trichromacy are not uncommon and it's something which in recent changes has had some very annoying issues. pos shields and weapon effects, bubbles, omg. fortunately those did get addressed ..but ever wondered how scanning works in the new system when the blue mesh renders the (apparently) grey arrows for controlling your probes invisible? :p i mean come on, there are checklists against this short of fails in design. and if you have no idea what could pose problems for people, take the easy road and give people a colourwheel so they can pick the colours for optimum visibility. and that is something which would make scanning a lot more feasible for people without impairements but with darker monitors as well."
"1.0"
"hehe, not that you need it, but you have my support."
"a thing to add for the cons:- this change will make hauling missions very negative for new players. they will not have the collateral to lose and it will make suicide ganking more interesting in high sec too.with the almost non-existent cost of a insured ship a new character doing a hauling mission in a untanked ship (and new players will do that) will lose a lot between ship, mission payout, collateral and standing while the ganker will get a consistent reward. especially if mission payout stay as low as today. rendering a whole class of missions not economically rewarding (remember that the auto balancing system for payouts use only the completion time and don't consider the failure rate) is equivalent to removing them from the game. still worth discussing, so supported."
"suicide ganking happens to ships that are untanked and carry hundreds of mil of stuff. to make hauler missions good for pirate to chase in lowsec you only need cargo values+collateral of 1-20 mil depending on the mission level and quality. i really dont think that it will be an issue for highsec newbiesthat said, ccp adjusting the collaterals to make high level(or lv 4 storyline or whatever) high sec hauler missions a potential target for suicide ganking would be an interesting twist"
"see, your real problem here is this is the assembly hall, not c&p (or caod). if you want us to take you seriously, talking in lolspeak (or whatever messed up language you're using) is definitely not the way to do it."
"do you speak english?"
"looks like he speaks vampire."
"um, i'd agree, except for one problem. wardec's are currently a redundant feature. the only corps that don't know how to evade wardec's are noob corps, and you really don't need to cause more misery for them.fix wardec's, and i might agree with this. but for now, i don't see how this would benefit anybody."
"i raised this issue before when the previous carebear and 0.0 only csm was in office. of course they refused to even consider the issue, with one csm delegate stating that he would prefer to see war decs either eliminated altogether in hi sec or limited to one at a time. for the privateers our there, the working guys who are kinda sleepy eyed in the back, the killers amongst us, you know the rank and file dps guys, we need more war in hi sec. hi sec isn't supposed to be totally safe, and the 24 hour limit for a vote, 1 hour delay to implement the vote to a sanctionable action, then 24 hours to implement the action, and only three at a time. well, if you have been an aggressor in hi sec you know what happens: the war target turtles up and doezn't undock, the war target removes items of interest to the attacker, the war target joins an alliance leaves it and then well no more war dec. this needs to be addressed. one partial fix is to raise the limit to 6 with a corresponding increase in charges by concord to saction the activity.iwant urstuffceo iwant urstuff corpp.s. the z'z zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz there trass1er (can't even spell his name right as the real trassler seem to have forum issues) how about some support now?"
"this... making a broken system worse is not something i want to see.not supported."
"what is stopping you from creating an alliance (or have one created for you) and avoiding the limit alltogether?"
"because alliances are under the same limit... even if they have a larger number of corporations."
"wtf happened to your \"s\"' dude?"
"\"note: a corporation can only have a maximum of 3 wars, an alliance has no such limit. \"source:"
"i stand corrected."
"this is what: i highlighted the key point.what it boils down to is they want to grief more corporations at once, without having to pay 25x the isk per war dec to do so."
"the statement that it costs 2 million per war dec is categorically untrue. it costs 2 million for the first war dec. then 4 million for the second dec then 6 million for the third. the eqaution for a single corp on corp war dec is b x (n +1) where b = base price, n = number of wars you currently have, (it can get even more expensive if there are others deccing the target corp. so the fourth, fifth and sixth war dec fees would be 8, 10, and 12 million isk respectively. your alliance suggestion is ridiculous spend 50 mil, 100 mil 150 mil and up? no thank you. i confess i would probably just use 4 (sometimes 5) of them so i could rapidly cycle them when the war target corp turtles up or joins an alliance and leaves it, or they almost all leave and join a noob corp. i keep seeing people using the word \"grief\", whatever for? iwant urstuff corp has never war decced a noob corp, i defy you to find one thread stating such, i see those posts all the time where the noob corp is asking what to do, or trying to hire mercs to help them. i only do what the game allows, and i have never camped a station and camped a gate once for about 15 minutes. i have been in over 150 wars and successfully prosecuted 47 of them. in almost all other cases the war deccees (for lack of a better term) simply avoided conflict. this wasn't always the case and my hat is off to one valiant and brave drake pilot who quite succintly sank my battleship. i didn't cry and come to forums asking for a drake nerf or anything like that, that valiant and solo pilot took on 5 geddons and an omen and won, he took out two of our bs. again ajay010 pilot of death and glory corp good fight!!! this guy is outstanding and it was actually fun getting blown out of space by him. talk about the 300 at thermopylae i was just in awe. what i am trying to accomplish here is just to be able to fight every once in awhile. if you disagree with fighting in hi sec well that is your right to have an opinion. but the nerf bat swung to far the other way after the privateers tried to war dec everybody in hi sec. i am not asking for a return to that status of eve. i am simply asking the csm to consider edging it a little back the other way and if they agree take that to ccp. i don't think that is to much to ask. just discuss it in the csm and see if some 8 mil, 10 mil and an occasional 12 mil war dec fee is to much. i don't want to form an alliance, to many people use those to get out of wars. i want to fight other corps and take their stuff, if i win. if you don't understand that well, i kinda feel sorry for you.iwant urstuffceo iwant urstuff corp"
"quoted for truth."
"you may look at war-dec's as fun... but not everyone does.they call it grefing because its one sided the entire time. the one who war-dec's can keep it up for as long as they choose to do it.there is no end to it.... there's no victory conditions... there's no time limit... no cool down.many corps... minus yours according to your statement... use this and abuse this.by raising the limit... it makes the problem worse.if you want the limit raised... the price tag should be raised dramatically.if not weighed on a number of factors.... frequency of war.... number of concurrent wars... corporation age.... and such.all this is going to do is force more people to jump ship and go to npc corps... that or join larger alliances.the idea is to make it work... not make it worse!"
"suggesting that there be a right click option on the speed indicator that would allow us to manually type in a speed to set. this would be helpful for those times that you want to be aligned without moving much.. ie set speed to 0.1 m/s so your ship doesnt automatically realign to the annoying up/down plane in eve. i know you can just click to set your speed, but its really inexact.. i tried for a while today to set my speed to a slow crawl today just to see how slow i could take it.. with the indicator scaled to my ships top speed of 176 m/s, i couldn't get it below 9.6 m/s without hitting the stop button."
"yup, that could be very useful."
"signed."
"i agree and i support.good idea!"
"i could use this, good idea!--isaac"
"very usefull."
"process at present:1. highlight entire contents of hangar2. hit 'repackage'3. get the 'cannot repackage as item is damaged' error4. then re-highlight your entire hangar5. then click 'repair'6. then click 'repair all'7. then agree to pay the pitifully small amount of isk to repair8. then go back to your hangar9. highlight all items10. and click 'repackage.'proposed process:1. highlight entire hangar.2. click 'repair and repackage'3. dance.its just a bad, bad, bad process at present, and it should be incredibly easy to fix."
"shockingly, i approve my own proposal."
"i support this idea."
"this i can support. in this light, i support this issue."
"what? lol then dont select it,yeh dude i read this just after this repair/repakage buisiness hapend and i thought why isnt there a ......"
"even if the popup was \"this item cannot be repackaged because it is damaged. it will cost 1234 isk to repair. (pay) (don't pay) (cancel repackaging)\", it'd be a huge improvement. something like this, yes."
"no! this is totally game breaking! this is like making capital weapons able to hit orbiting shuttles. ok, not really./supported for a better future with less time sinks"
"supported"
"csm would do well to focus, only taking this issue and fw to the next meeting.maybe then we'd get half an answer.as it stands only masochists and fools use pos for anything other then shooting at."
"anybody know why they didn't do this already?/supported"
"i would fully support any enhancements to the graphics or graphic options to enable more people to get the best out of the game."
"sorry forgot to check the box for support :) this time i have supported :)"
"the following characters have been paid their isk for participation asof wednesday 17.jun 09 22:54 (gmt+1):acolade"
"unless you keep looking in your cargo hold or just keep the cargo hold window opened (which takes some room on the screen), you can't see when you're about to run out of charges. not to mention that sometimes, as you loot stuff, the pile of charges can get lost and mixed up with other modules, making it hard to see it at a glance.what i propose is a very simple thing (in theory). when you hover your mouse over a weapon or module that requires charges in the ship control panel, you get a tooltip showing basic info such as the type of module, the charge that is loaded and its overload status.all they would have to do here, is to add a line in there to show how much of the loaded charge is left in your cargo hold. the count would have to be the sum of all stacks of charges if there's more than one of course.i can really see this as being extremely useful, especially for long heated battles or expeditions that may last several hours. knowing when to fall back and re-arm is crutial."
"supporting myself"
"good idea."
"mate it an option in menu,so screen does not get cluttered for tho9se that don't need it atm."
"maxsim, i believe you misunderstood. i don't see how it would be cluttering the screen, it's a tooltip! that means it's only showing up when you hover a module in the ship control ui with your mouse. you already see a tooltip right now, all i'm suggesting is to add one line in that tooltip. it's actually removing clutter since you wouldn't have to keep your cargo hold window opened all the time to see how many charges of a certain type you have left."
"neuts are fine. in my mind, nos could use a boost for small vs large, though. i think it would be rather nice if nos worked the attacker's ship's absolute cap value was less than the attacked ships, instead of percentage cap. this would almost always help small ships versus large, and behave about the same between ships of the same size."
"lol no. and boost webs!"
"um, well now. using one large neut and sucking an inty dry in one cycle seems a bit overpowered to me. especially since you need interceptors lvl5 in order to be able to point outside of the range of a large neut.i personally think cap warfare is ruining pvp, as every ship needs a cap booster, and cap stable setups are useless in pvp. it only serves to further limit the options available to a player when fitting a ship./supported"
"more like interceptor level 1 for a tackling intie (okay then you got very little manouvring space left, but you certainly dont need intie lvl 5)."
"not supported.the current situation seems perfect to me, frigates should be at risk from battle ships that take the time to fit to counter them. if you dont like being neuted fit a small cap booster, such is the heavy neut cycle time that you can ensure you can keep a target pointed and your speed up.he fits to counter you, dont whine if you arent prepared to do the same.i am also not in favour of anything that nerfs nos or neuts, they are gimped enough in most situations as it is.edit: christ, some of you need to learn to fly. i wonder if this is how the nano nerf first started."
"killing a frigate's tackle, prop mod, and possibly guns isn't wtfpwning these days? fully support giving neuts tracking-dependence.there's a difference between being 'at risk' from a larger ship and 'dead in the water'."
"the thing is that the only way to stop an interceptor would be well you guessed it, a heavy neut, the guns on a battleship will always be out-tracked.most if not all drones will never catch up with an experienced interceptor pilot so the only way that remains for getting rid of interceptors is by neuting them.also coupled with the fact that interceptors have a signature decrease making locking them quite hard so if your gang is right behind you the battleship will die.i see a working counter vs a mechanic here, why fix what ain't broken."
"so you want a bs to be completely helpless against a inty?usually when i get neuted by a bs while flying a inty i still manage to recharge cap a little to run the mwd once and get out of range."
"wrong. at lvl1 a disruptor ii has the same range as a hevy neut ii, so lvl1 won't cut it. at lvl5, you'll have about 5km more range. that's really isn't a lot when mwd's are involved (which will always be the case with bs's)."
"all battleships can carry a flight of warrior iis and a scram/web, which is sufficient to kill any frigate hull that gets close; disco is also an option. it would be fine if the neut's effect were scaled by sig radius such that it had a similar effect to a small neut when used against frigates, and to a medium neut against cruisers, but as it is, it's a get out of jail free card against any tackler save for a tackle inty with a disruptor (faction points excluded)."
"a frigate can out-track a battleship trivially even without a prop mod, and 24 seconds is a long cycle time. unless you're in a bhaalgorn or a neut domi or something(both of which tend to eat frigs alive), you're going to have 1 neut on him, maybe 2 in some rare cases. i've never tried it in actual combat, but i'm pretty sure natural cap recharge can feed your tackle around a single neut (with holes smaller than a battleship's align time) if you're careful about timing. also, frigates generally ought to be at a disadvantage to battleships when the numbers are equal, so the bs having options like this against frigs seems fine to me."
"this is how they should have done the original nos nerf, basing it off of sig radius, or tracking, or optimal ranges or some other such crap.neuts however are fine - there are ways around it, and an inty can operate quite effectively against a battleship with some skill.edit: /not supported"
"just to be clear this isn't a 'whine'. i've never been neuted out when flying my ares (and i've been flying it a fair bit in pvp lately). if i was, i could probably get away.no bs is ever going to be 'helpless' against an interceptor - which can't do anything like enough damage to even scratch it. however interceptors are tackle ships and having one module which can null that in a single cycle seems a tad much. webs, drones, 2s warp scrammers (if the 'ceptor gets too close) and, of course, the old standby of a wing of warrior iis are all viable counters as are <shudder> the light dual and quad guns with higher tracking which are supposed to be the counter to such things - although those need a tracking boost these days.in short, there are lots of other options, but the most notable one - bring light ship support of your own, is also frequently ignored.in a one on one, even with a neut shift (and i'm not proposing making them useless by any means just not quite so useful) the bs can pretty much ignore the 'ceptor even if it has none of the other available options - so long as both are alone. my wife had an interdictor pounding on her hulk for 20 minutes completely unable to scratch her tank before help was eventually able to drive the red pilot off.in eve, fleets are supposed to be balanced and there should be no 'ultimate' weapons against any ship. due to other changes in balance issues, mostly speed rebalancing, fleets are changing. light ships, once almost as rare as hen's teeth, are suddenly much more viable, which has increased the overall usefulness of neutralizers. i just think it's time for a small shift downwards in power against smaller ships only. personally i think it should be tracking and signature influenced (leave your mwd on at your peril inty pilots!) but that's just my thoughts on it.hey - i have heavy neuts on one of my dominixes as well and they work very well - but i'd feel very cheap nailing a hawk with it, leaving him dead in space and then watching the warrior iis rip him to shreds before he could do anything. that's just a bit too much in my mind."
"not supported, capacitor warfare is fine as it is."
"not supported.large ships will rarely fit more than one energy neutralizer or vampire to counter frigates and interceptors, therefore, they can only suck the cap energy of one ship at the time. that means in order to tackle them, you'll need to use more than one ship.what they are doing is a valid tactic, and shouldn't be nerfed."
"cap warfare doesnt need a nerf, stop whining. /not supported"
"qft"
"supported"
"i want to be able to do more complex operations than a single contract allows, like delivering a courier job to a character other than myself without needing to wait around for the contract to finish and posting another contract.a system by which you can set a chain of contracts dealing with some item(s), each subsequent contract automatically being posted when the previous one is completed. each new contract in the chain would have to look ahead at the results of the previous contracts to determine the available options. failure of one part would cancel all remaining chain links.even if the contracts can only be paired it would a great increase in contract options.applicationscourier + item exchange: courier job \"delivering\" to another character/corp. (this is something i'm suprised we don't have an option to do in a single contract already)item exchange + courier: reverse of the above, a nice convenience when negotiating by mail.courier + courier: break a courier job into two parts (automatic posting of a contract to your jump freighter pilot perhaps)loan + item exchange: provide a loan with option of ownership without requiring \"defaulting\" on said loan"
"not the biggest issue in the world, but i can see a lot of useful things that could be done with this, and i don't imagine it being that hard to implement. supported."
"yeah, not a huge thing, but supported.makes me wish we had our own mission creation interface for corporations, would do a ton for corp job management, delegation, member tracking, payrolls, etc."
"this is a very interesting proposal- while it would certainly take a large effort on ccp's part, and is by no means something worth jumping into without thinking, it's definitely worth consideration.as any good coder knows, rewriting your code from the ground up will not only increase its efficiency exponentially, but will also take only a fraction of the time it took to code in the first place (you've already gone through 90% of the debugging the first time you wrote the code)anyhow- imo it's definitely worth consideration- it would be a big undertaking, but the results would be simply golden. lag-free, bug-free eve? yes, please!"
"though i've never lasted more than a day on wow. i did however find out that they the devs, programmers have no idea how it actually works anymore as its been written and over written many times. this is the issue as games grow and the trail of coding gets longer and longer. its probably to late to do this now as doing this will bring up more issues than solve."
"i strongly disagree with this idea. i'm a programmer, and i know that no matter how good you are, it's almost impossible to write a bug-free program on the first try, no matter if you already know, based on past experience, how to write it or not.re-writing core sections of the code will have a tremendous impact on the rest of the code, and will require as much testing and debugging as if it was old code that was patched and improved.don't get me wrong, starting from scratch knowing exactly what to do and what not to do is often tempting, and in some cases, would indeed resolve some issues and improve performance, but it would also take a considerable amount of time to do. time which ccp doesn't have right now.usually, when you decide to do a rewrite, you sit down and plan it well. if you're about to do a rewrite, might as well do it right, right? this planing phase can take a very long time (usually longer than the time it takes to write the code itself). time is one thing the ccp dev team doesn't have the luxury of right now."
"for not letting people pick stupid passwords: yes.for forcing them to constantly change passwords: no"
"frankly, good idea or not, i'm not supporting a damned thing sponsored by anyone that thinks they can impose change on me. quit being an arrogant twit and maybe we can talk.not about this though, because it's a bad idea - irritating paying customers is never the path to financial success."
"not signed.or it is mandatory to add an option in the eve account management to opt-out of it if wanted.i already use some ****ing password like a^fqmvr^%;``dpevj. so complex that i use a macro to type them, but at least this avoid any clever player to try to break it from his computer (or good luck. my login is also not a standard one ^^).of course, this password is used only here. maybe the login is used in one another game, but with a different password.so i, and all others players with a paranoid security politic, don't have to be annoyed by any unrequested mandatory change."
"this would be a logical thing to do in order to improve account security.i support this, although it would be best to have a physical key much like the blizzard authenticator now in use by many world of warcraft players. you can't beat that kind of security."
"no point in it. if you get hacked that's your fault.i personally have never been hacked, thats because i use random alpha numeric passwords and change them on my own, when i feel like it.i find being forced to change my password on someone elses timing to be more then annoying, i find it to be pointless and serving no purpose.account security is you responability. so step up and take care of it yourself."
"/support op"
"make number keys (1-0) shortcuts to set your speed to a corresponding percentage in increments of 10%.1 being 10% and 0 being 100%.simple, but very useful."
"supporting myself."
"i wouldn't make them defaults(because if you do make 1-0 the defaults, any time you post a number in a chat window, you'll change speed), but they should be added to the hotkey list, because this is useful functionality."
"i believe that while the focus is in any input type field, shortcut keys that are also keys you could use in the field are ignored. if this is not already the case, the code should be changed to reflect this.otherwise, they could very well use alt-1 to alt-0 instead, i don't mind."
"all my shortcuts are multi-key, so i've never tested this, but that's implementation details either way. the principle is the important part, and it's good."
"even if you dont focus the chat window, as soon as you press a single key the chat window gets focused and you start typing there.so it would need to be multi key shortcuts or maybe using the now freed f2-f8 (you use weapon grouping dont you?:)"
"supported"
"blizzard did it to protect their users from password and account hacking (mostly for world of warcraft), it's time ccp does it for eve online as well.i'm referring here to the vasco digipass go 6 device, which is what is used by blizzard for their blizzard authenticator keys.this key uses a complex algorithm that is almost impossible to crack to generate a code that is used to authenticate a user with a server. the key can't be hacked and is tamper proof, and can't be \"sniffed\" or keylogged.the principle is simple:1. you link the key with one or more eve online account(s).2. once linked, the code generated with the key becomes required to login to your account (after entering the account password).the login process for anything currently requiring your account password would be as follow:1. enter your account username & password and submit2. the server authenticates your password, and then prompts for the digipass code3. you press the button on the digipass key to generate the code and type it in, then submit.4. the digipass authentication server validates your code and logs you in.i'm one of the users who used the blizzard authenticator, and can tell you it's quite nice to feel that your account is hacker proof. the key works very well, and makes a nice key chain too! it's also rather cheap, only 7$ us plus shipping."
"i support myself"
"if you force this on the player community... your going to get stoned... drawn.. quartered..and then summarily podded/shot.it should be an option... not a requirement."
"there already has been a proposal opened with this aim. see"
"of course you don't want this as a requirement. it's an option, just like blizzard did it.woops, sorry about this then, i did a quick search using eve search and i didn't find it."
"duplicate topic. thread locked by request of op."
"the best solution in my opinion, would be to make the list of blocked contractors local (no lag, unlimited size), and to allow it to be exported and imported as xml (must be exportable if local so you can back it up).this would also enable groups of people to share a \"blacklist\" of known scammers much like some people already do for windows hosts files (blocking known scammer sites and domains).you would then have an option to clear the list completely in-game, so you can import a fresh one.the mechanics to import/export to xml has already been done for several other things (market history, wallet transactions, fittings), so i don't believe this would required any intense development to do."
"most other mmorpg games have some form of this, but not eve online. why?what i'm proposing is a series of standard slash commands one could use in any chat box to set his status.a status icon would then be overlayed on the player's portrait icon (lower left corner)this icon would only be visible to corp or alliance members and in corp and alliance chat member lists.i'm proposing only a few standard statuses:- online- away (afk)- busy (dnd)the corresponding slash commands would be:/online/away [optional away reason]/busy [optional busy reason]it would then be possible for ccp to use that status as a variable to affect certain options in the game. for example, you could have an option to block all trade and conversation requests while your status is set to \"busy\", or show your away reason as an alert window to someone requesting a conversation with you while you're away, etc...of course, if ccp gets into it, they could customize the statuses further to better suit the universe and context of eve online. for example, the following statuses could be added to the list the standard ones:- in mission- in combat- in transit- in fleet"
"obviously, i support myself."
"if they're going to implement slash commands, they need a lot more than three. that said, this as a part of a broader change would be nice."
"definitely supported."
"maybe not slash commands, but an expanded channel menue.however the implementation would look like, there is a high demand for things like afk flags in chat channels.limit it to corpchannel only or whatever, but it is needed a lot for corp management and stuff."
"don't worry kenzoku you won't need titans where you are going."
"not supporting at all.i've read several threads about supercap revisions, and supported all, even if the proposal wasn't that balanced that it could have been supported fully.but this one is [edit:] complete crap (original said: the worst of all), and contains elements (heat dmg) that is utterly unsupportable. with ops changes a double or tripple dd would make the enemy fleet full of broken ships, quite a bit damaged also, no cap to run away, no useable mods, nothing. it's even more miserable then this days triple dd, where most noncap ships simply pop. but standing there with useless mods waiting to be popped, like a lamb waiting for the slaughter is anything, but an improvement to the game.note again: this is the first time i'm not supporting such a proposal. and it's because of its details."
"quoted for the lulz. :)"
"not supported.doesn't do anything for how powerblocks deal with matters.doesn't change anything enough to put a tresholds against supercap blobs.doesn't give any room for making better use of secondary roles of the ship classes.seriously, this would work for potbs maybe. check it out."
"well, call me ignorant, call me silly. call me what you want to call me, but i think the timer should be removed all together. i know this means that people would be able to use one clone for mining, one for missions, one for manufacturing, one for invention etc. etc., but i really don't see why that's a problem.removing the timer would mean that i could jump in to a fresh clone, pvp and then jump back in to my training clone before logging off. it would actually be an added incentive to pvp. but that's me i suppose.either way, i'll support this."
"i don't know about completly removing the timer, but i agree with you reneral idea, timer should alow me to do that kind of stuff, so you can go and pvp withought having to wait 24 hours every time. at least do it as author of the topic sugggests above. i don't see a problem. eve is big enough for me."
"i wouldnt mind a degrading timer with some serious drawbacks...you can jc once per 24 hours with no problem...then you can jc again, immediately if you so wish. this prevents you from jumpcloning for 48 hours...want to jc again, immediately?you just burnt 1 off each of your attributes, your attributes are all reduced by one for a month.timer now increases to 96 hours.want to jc again, immediately?you just burnt you attributes again, all reduced by now a total of 4 for a month."
"not supported.imo, jc's should be removed from the game. (jump bridges, as well)"
"when you arrange your bookmarks in particular order, and log in from another computer, you will find out that you have to arrange them again. could that information be stored on server like eve does with everything else? it is a little of anoyance to organise everything twice. (i am using a desctop and a laptop)same goes for drones groups and for folders in buddy list. i don't think that would be of much trouble to ccp."
"while i agree with you that ccp could handle the settings better, until then let me give you this protip to bandaid over the problem.just copy over the settings files for your char and user. you can find those on a windows machine here;c:\documents and settings\**your pc user login name**\local settings\application data\ccp\eve\c_program_files_ccp_eve_tranquility\settings**please note that \"your pc user login name\" will be the actual name of the user account that you use on your windows box, while your playing eve."
"thank you on that.if ccp does it however, it would just be easier for everybody."
"if ccp simply published such information for those that dont think to look for it there wouldnt be a problem- if you cant manage keeping backups of data that is important to you i find it hard to assume you can pla eve."
"i can backup data if needed. but it would be simpler if you would not have to copy the file on flashdrine every time you whant to switch pc, but it would be done automatically, this is just about comfort and ease of use."
"anything that means i can be moar lazy! actually, anything that yields more options. gui in eve is terrible. it's like something qqp concocted in the mid 80's./supported"
"maybe i should support my own idea."
"yes, great idea :d"
"this"
"well we are making some progress here but what about my diminishing returns? it should be 2x better at least right?the reps should be 2 to 3 times better as well (both rr and local)dont really know how not being able to dock factors into your caclulation of \"times better\" but lets make the motherhip compensate for that somehow by lets say, adding hp or being able to refit solo. i agree completely with what you are saying and i think what you propose is a good start. ccp please make motherhsips 2-3x more powerful than a carrier and not worse or the same - thanks"
"anybody know what happened to this issue? it appears it was raised by tusko hopkins.. escalated back in jan.. but i cant seem to find any mention of it after that?issue id 0201-12-0110"
"so who was the moron who decided the model need changing when all the people that fly it obviously liked the old one a great deal. was my favourite ship.as for slots, if rsd are fixed then the extra mid comes in handy on escorts for jamming off tacklers (stupid ones, smart ones aren't effected by rsd)."
"in pvp terms, the wreck still belongs to the original owner, so if you want to change the salvage flagging mechnaics, then whoever salvages should be flagged to the original owner, not to the person that shot the ship in the first place.the problem is that in pve the wreck is flagged by the killer not by the previous npc owner. i presume that this is because the killer in pve is somehow granted 'looting rights', whereas in pvp if you kill someone you are already flagged, so don't care if you get flagged again by looting the wreck (or you are in 0.0 where there is no flagging).any changes to ownership of wrecks and salvage rights needs to consider what is meant by the term 'salvage' as well as considering both the pvp and the pve implications, not just the whines of mission runners.if people are to be flagged for 'stealing' salvage, then the term 'salvage' needs to be changed, because it won't be the correct term any more, or there needs to be a mechanism for claiming salvage rights over a wreck."
"i not sure what you mean... eve players being elitist in regard to other mmo players or eve elite acting elitist toward other eve players. look at it this way: it takes a certain amount of leverage to be able to assert ones elitism successfully. if someone who has no leverage over you acts elite...ignore them."
"hey red, seen your post in c&p so im sure you can and would. i think the op means elitism as in i've been around since xxxx and and have 40mil sp's plus, or our alliance has been in control of xyz 0.0 constellation for the last x years. if you want to come here you pay, for any one wishing to try and forcably take any part from these elitist groups would be a costly mistake. its this elitism that makes this game extremely tough for newer players under 2 years old and for them to team up and do anything of any consequence or substantial. so players are left with if i cant beet them join them and we're seeing that now with the goons. they did say they'd take over all of 0.0 one day and if this situation stays the same they probably will as theyll be the last man standing so to speak.in real life they say time is money, in eve time is skills points, isk and power."
"i have been thinking about a scheme that would make become elitist too. lets say i've come into a subtantial windfall and i dont need the money. in this hypothetical i can afford to buy 1000 gtc's, with these i flood the market and sell them for say 500mil each. for me as a player i'll recieve 500bil isk for everyone else buying and selling gtc's they either compete or they wont buy them. do you honestly think in doing this i wont control the market?. do you think its any different ingame? i think not."
"i personally like low-sec for what it is, no-mans land. it's a buffer between the sovereign 0.0 and empire. this is what low-sec does well. the rewards might be upped a little but if we get too crazy the economy will be adversely affected."
"good!that is exactly what many of us are looking for. the economy in eve is helplessly skewed in favour of highsec.people go where the isk is."
"this was done in our 2nd meeting by... larkonis i think"
"my apologies dont know how i missed that"
"1 r64's2 sov mechanics3 titans combined with the sove mechanicscurrenty only major alliances can hold space that nobody can attack due their naps and their 10 titans in system. even 3 titans are enough to dd a complete bs gang out of a system that is cynojammed. while nobody can attack them, their r64 income is getting higher and higher. while they are getting massive richdom they can buy more and more titans. and can defense more and more. untill their is a moment that there are enough titans in one alliance to become invinseble for attackers. that moment is very close. if titans arnt getting nerfed conquering 0.0 is impossible for a medium 0.0 alliance without multible 100's of capitals (witch can resist dd's of 3-5 titans) its more a mixture of all three things. r64's arn't equal devided anyway, once a large alliances has one (or can capture one). its impossible to get one as medium sized corp/alliance. from here misery begins. more income, more isk to spend on the thing sayed above. new competitioners just dont get any chance anymore. i admit in the early days naps were essencial and a part of eve politics. but with more eve'rs these last 2 years its getting a bit redicules. wormhole space is a good solution to that but it isnt intended to live in. well its fun when it is fun but it can be also very boring. im in a corp with my main that were sick of all the naps and left k-space for w-space. i personaly like living in lawless space while i have trading alts in emp. w-space is getting bored for me and k-space allreaddy is (the 0.0) so what else can i do. i can go to wow but that s***s, i can quite eve but i like it too much for that. so csm, i ask to u, go sit around the table with dev's brainstorm how u can inprove these things mention above and make eve fun again for the small % of eve players/corporations witch i represent and are tierd of nappies, dictator alliances and hours looking at a pos in wspace."
"there is an overhaul of the sov system in the works or so i understand, coincidentally just in time for molle to spring his trap and retake delve after lulling everyone into a false sense of security by letting them take all his space."
"its not my intention to make this a goon - bob tropic. but if u look to the whole thing its a good example of how the sov sytem shouln't work. its just that within these 5 years of eve, eve has evolved when gaining soo much new players. lawless space is overpopulated and only the ones with massive power take advantage of it (read blobs). making it in the end not fun for the ones that dont want to take part of nappies/dictator alliances but still want/able to stand on their own feet in 0.0eve evolved and so must do the \"rules\" that need to be ballanced to make the increase in number of players working. as i say \"eve is broken\"."
"it's nice to see a formal adoption of the csm wiki. that's a big compliment to the originator of the idea.upon looking it over, i did not see a great number of agenda items. therefore, i'd like to suggest some ideas in case the csm is in need of subject material.1.) i'm interested in seeing revived interest in the... all channels | features and ideas discussion | update to decorations discussion. specifically, i'm interested in the ability of awarding decorations to non-corporation members.2.) a status update regarding redesign of the forums to allow for better search results, monitoring of threads, email notification of thread responses, and etc. would be appreciated. to illustrate the need for a forum revamp, please consider that, for item #1 above, i could not find the thread via the forums. yet i knew it existed. i had to google it. after googling, i was able to find it only on eve-search.com. once finding it there, i was able to navigate the offical forums to get to the locked discussion. that's not very efficient.3.) sound. with apocrypha, visual improvements were made. perhaps it's time now to see additional attention given to sound......a.) the ability to disable proximity sound for effects directly impacting a pilot's pod would be appreciated. who, in their right mind, observes their ship from 5km while 25 npcs are trying to do them in? players who play intelligently should not be punished by having to play a game with no sound. intelligent play seems to occur at around 70km......b.) juke box........1.) i don't care for the fade-to-off feature of the juke box. off should be off and off should be now.........2.) the ability to block some tracks would be nice. most of the music is enjoyable but some is not.........3.) the ability to create folders and / or play lists would be nice.........4.) the ability to view all tracks (e.g. the cool ones which play during a mission when a pilot is about to get their butt kicked by the npcs) would also be nice.good luck csm 3 and thank you for serving."
"i dream of the days when 6000 online were a lot.today i get fed up with 0.0 quickly, you can't even turn your a$$ or an enemy comes in again.i love fighting enemy for sure, but anyone nowadays can jump their stuff into 0.0 without a lot of effort. cyno's are partly responsible for that. ccp had a goal of getting more people into 0.0, that worked fine. but waging war onto some corp or alliance isnt doing anything to their supplies. in the old days people had to create a big convoy, haulers with escorts and plan a trip. this meant that if you dealt a big blow to their stuff, it would take a couple of days at least before they could resupply again. it was also easier to protect a system with gate camps. now 2 people can do it, one cyno dropper and one pilot who jumps in the supplies and everything starts all over again.i will wait and see what happens in eve, i hope they triple the size of eve.currently i like empire and lowsec better."
"/signed"
"hah. hahah. wow. if you're af is losing to t1 frigs, you're doing it wrong. horribly, horribly wrong."
"you didnt read any of the posts in this thread now did you"
"for those with limited function or accessibility to the real-world eve has become a tool for social interaction.despite the horrible interface, time-sinks and deliberate ui gaps, the game has become quite popular with many in this position.i propose like the economist ccp has hired they also have a accessibility group which reviews increments to the engine against their own test-cases. this body could also work on ensuring various human interface devices (hid) work with the engine and possibly even working with manufacturers to improve some of these devices with experiences gained from eve users.they could even go onto advocacy, introducing people trapped in hospital beds to the game as a form of therapy.imagine for a moment you're in this situation and how much eve could mean to your quality of life.imagine that the latest patch made your hid stop working....."
"being in a family that has a high percentage of it's members who are visually impaired i fully support moves to bring new interface technologies to the game that enables people with disabilities or illnesses to enjoy the game. whether it's to keep them occupied, allow them to play games despite being blind for example. i'm all for it. i know a lot of the technology already exists for visually impaired people to use speech recognition software to use everyday appliances and computers. the technologies do exist. for sure a visually impaired person may have difficulties in being involved combat but eve being eve there is much more to the game then fighting that could be enjoyed by a much wider audience if certain technologies were introduced into the game."
"funny that, hospitals and retirement homes are buying wii's to use as therapy. but yeah, considering how simple it is to control the ship in eve (hehe, for me at least), i don't see why not. first time i heard about a disabled person playing eve, i realized that it's probably a really good game for it./supported"
"fully supported. usability and accessibility should be a structural element of design either way."
"i like where this is going. i don't think we can force ccp to do anything, but raising it as a possibility for them to consider is something i think is worthwhile."
"cool idea. supported."
"supported."
"that's extra cash for you ccp, so please take care of that!"
"support this idea."
"/signedthe cureent looks of poses suck.game is supposed to be fun, and that includes stuff looking good, not only being functional."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"/signed"
"there is always the thing called trust and i believe the technical security role should only be able to be distributed by the ceo.cutting out the shareholders might be a big deal for one corp but not for another, therefore it should be optional. this keeps the ability for industrial corps with investors to let shareholders have their say and give the abilites to other non-shareholder corps to get rid of this system and easily unlock/lock everything."
"i support this only as a alternative/optional choice."
"100% supported, needs to happenmaybe limit the change to combat drones and let them shoot at fighters to avoid low-sec carrier gatecamps, but if its all or none then i'd rather have no aggro on the drones"
"omg i cannot sign this enough.i came back from a eve break, turns out i missed it by 2 days. i've been dreaming of one ever since"
"hell yeah"
"is that a day when everyone flys an armageddon around?"
"huh, how i missed this topic. will raise it for next csm meeting."
"i have heard this was one of the best things in eve history, unfortunately i wasn't around at the time would love to see it tho.supported"
"i whanna blow some **** up!"
"i think armageddon day should be a yearly event."
"yearly event.also, remove faction navy spawns in highsec."
"i missed it last time around"
"what about this:change skills required to fly the ship. the mining skills that are listed will need to be trained in order to use the ship as a command ship regardless. however if all you want to do is use it as a freighter, those skills are pointless. then you don't need a new ship, and you don't have to change this ship at all. instead of industrial command ships ijust change it toadvanced spaceship command i ( or ii, but that way it's the same skill required for freighters ): tie the 5% cargo capacity boost to this skill, but leave all the other ship bonuses tied to industrial command ships so that people who have already trained the other skill don't lose that skills purpose.tralala"
"bump; i really hope ccp looks at this."
"supported"
"the only things i would like changed is a faster base speed of the 3 minmatar battleships, more powergrid on the tempest and a much larger ammo clips on artillery."
"i would pay a visit."
"confirmin"
"beqc, having covert cyno generating ships become an automatic target for sentry guns and faction npcs (for the duration of the covert cyno) is not an unreasonable request if the covert cyno is popped on grid of a gate or station for example (but not if the covert cyno is popped off grid of these entities). afterall, while a faction may not be able to detect or jam a covert cyno easily, they can definately see if it its popped right in front of them, and it would make sense that they react to that."
"i definitely like the idea, and have suggested it before. after reading the thread here, i do agree that it could be balanced by making it a criminal offense, such that it draws sentry fire. this, more than anything, just makes sense from an rp perspective. i don't believe blockade runners will be used for much hub to hub transit, as, npc autopiloting is much more effective, and actually safer in most cases. the outlaw in high-sec problem has already been brought up and i feel it's been hashed down to a non-issue."
"would be fun for empire wars"
"sounds good."
"let's get this addressed and pour some resources into it!signed"
"absolutely want to see more fw info and gameplay in this area expanded."
"signed"
"supported"
"i throw my support behind this issue, even though my corp & myself are no longer in fw.ax"
"supported"
"faction warfare battle yields to desynch yet again. fw is completely unplayable. i warped to the brutor tribe bureau at 21:35 and engaged.enemy targets continued to arrive during the fight. there were only 15 ships (14 war targets and 1 neutral) on my overview yet the client and server desynched to the point that i didn't even know my ship was in danger until i arrived in a new clone in station.------------------------------------------------------------ gamelog listener: chebri session started: 2009.06.18 21:31:00------------------------------------------------------------[ 2009.06.18 21:31:34 ] (notify) loading the torpedo into the missile launcher siege; this will take approximately 10 seconds.[ 2009.06.18 21:31:36 ] (notify) loading the ammo into the projectile weapon; this will take approximately 10 seconds.[ 2009.06.18 21:32:36 ] (notify) warping to stargate (amamake)[ 2009.06.18 21:33:33 ] (question) the destination system is 0.4 security status. this is extremely dangerous and concord police can not guarantee your safety there. do you want to proceed?[ 2009.06.18 21:33:36 ] (none) jumping to stargate (osoggur) in amamake solarsystemgame logs:------------------------------------------------------------ gamelog listener: chebri session started: 2009.06.18 21:33:44------------------------------------------------------------[ 2009.06.18 21:35:42 ] (notify) stinkxfinger (moros) has started trying to warp scramble \"alpha plus (nightmare)\"[ 2009.06.18 21:35:52 ] (notify) warping to amamake ii - brutor tribe bureau[ 2009.06.18 21:36:20 ] (notify) alkas79 (malediction) has started trying to warp scramble \"elmo vormar (rifter)\"[ 2009.06.18 21:36:20 ] (notify) elmo vormar (rifter) has started trying to warp scramble \"alkas79 (malediction)\"[ 2009.06.18 21:36:46 ] (notify) natasha joviche (hurricane) has started trying to warp scramble \"alkas79 (malediction)\"[ 2009.06.18 21:37:04 ] (notify) siege missile launcher i deactivates as hkgb begins to explode.[ 2009.06.18 21:37:07 ] (notify) gats (deimos) has started trying to warp scramble \"elmo vormar (rifter)\"[ 2009.06.18 21:37:14 ] (notify) bajerle (crow) has started trying to warp scramble \"harri bar (typhoon)\"[ 2009.06.18 21:37:17 ] (notify) gats (deimos) has started trying to warp scramble \"harri bar (typhoon)\"[ 2009.06.18 21:37:19 ] (notify) kiaenigma (curse) has started trying to warp scramble \"harri bar (typhoon)\"[ 2009.06.18 21:37:22 ] (notify) harri bar (typhoon) has started trying to warp scramble \"kiaenigma (curse)\"[ 2009.06.18 21:37:30 ] (notify) natasha joviche (hurricane) has started trying to warp scramble \"gats (deimos)\"[ 2009.06.18 21:37:32 ] (notify) bajerle (crow) has started trying to warp scramble \"harri bar (typhoon)\"[ 2009.06.18 21:37:36 ] (notify) kenzore (zealot) has started trying to warp scramble \"harri bar (typhoon)\"[ 2009.06.18 21:37:36 ] (combat) <color=0xffbbbb00>your group of dual 650mm repeating artillery i lightly hits eggars (ishtar), doing 222.3 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:37:39 ] (notify) relentless iii is too far away to use your stasis webifier i on, it needs to be closer than 10,000 meters.[ 2009.06.18 21:37:40 ] (notify) you have started trying to warp scramble eggars (ishtar).[ 2009.06.18 21:37:42 ] (combat) <color=0xffbbbb00>your group of dual 650mm repeating artillery i barely scratches eggars (ishtar), causing 123.3 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:37:47 ] (combat) <color=0xffbbbb00>your group of dual 650mm repeating artillery i barely scratches eggars (ishtar), causing 137.4 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:37:47 ] (notify) relentless iii is too far away to use your warp disruptor i on, it needs to be closer than 20,000 meters.[ 2009.06.18 21:37:51 ] (notify) kenzore (zealot) has started trying to warp scramble \"pandora today (scorpion)\"[ 2009.06.18 21:37:53 ] (notify) gats (deimos) has started trying to war"
"[ 2009.06.18 21:37:47 ] (notify) relentless iii is too far away to use your warp disruptor i on, it needs to be closer than 20,000 meters.[ 2009.06.18 21:37:51 ] (notify) kenzore (zealot) has started trying to warp scramble \"pandora today (scorpion)\"[ 2009.06.18 21:37:53 ] (notify) gats (deimos) has started trying to warp scramble \"pandora today (scorpion)\"[ 2009.06.18 21:37:54 ] (notify) bajerle (crow) has started trying to warp scramble \"pandora today (scorpion)\"[ 2009.06.18 21:37:56 ] (combat) <color=0xffbbbb00>your group of dual 650mm repeating artillery i barely scratches eggars (ishtar), causing 49.9 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:13 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars barely scratches you, causing 104.3 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:13 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars heavily hits you, inflicting 205.1 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:13 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars hits you, doing 136.5 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:13 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars places an excellent hit on you, inflicting 235.8 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:13 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars hits you, doing 168.2 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:22 ] (notify) kiaenigma (curse) has started trying to warp scramble \"nasty1 (tempest)\"[ 2009.06.18 21:38:26 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars hits you, doing 165.3 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:26 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars heavily hits you, inflicting 202.2 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:26 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars barely scratches you, causing 108.4 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:26 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars strikes you perfectly, wrecking for 522.6 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:26 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars places an excellent hit on you, inflicting 231.4 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:33 ] (notify) harriette is too far away to use your warp disruptor i on, it needs to be closer than 20,000 meters.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:35 ] (notify) harriette is too far away to use your stasis webifier i on, it needs to be closer than 10,000 meters.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:45 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars places an excellent hit on you, inflicting 250.2 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:45 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars hits you, doing 164.4 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:45 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars hits you, doing 162.8 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:45 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars lightly hits you, doing 126.5 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:45 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars heavily hits you, inflicting 177.4 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:45 ] (notify) bajerle (crow) has started trying to warp scramble \"nasty1 (tempest)\"[ 2009.06.18 21:38:47 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars lightly hits you, doing 116.5 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:47 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars places an excellent hit on you, inflicting 237.6 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:47 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars hits you, doing 160.7 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:47 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars lightly hits you, doing 116.4 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:47 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars hits you, doing 155.4 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:51 ] (notify) harriette is too far away to use your warp disruptor i on, it needs to be closer than 20,000 meters.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:54 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>dre don (zealot) barely scratches you, causing 494.7 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:55 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>dre don (zealot) barely scratches you, causing 113.2 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:55 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to egga"
"[ 2009.06.18 21:38:55 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars heavily hits you, inflicting 179.8 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:55 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars heavily hits you, inflicting 214.4 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:55 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars places an excellent hit on you, inflicting 242.4 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:55 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars places an excellent hit on you, inflicting 254.1 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:55 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars heavily hits you, inflicting 196.3 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:56 ] (combat) <color=0xffbbbb00>your group of dual 650mm repeating artillery i barely scratches eggars (ishtar), causing 48.7 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:38:56 ] (notify) gats (deimos) has started trying to warp scramble \"nasty1 (tempest)\"[ 2009.06.18 21:39:04 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars lightly hits you, doing 119.4 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:39:04 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars hits you, doing 167.4 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:39:04 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars heavily hits you, inflicting 216.2 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:39:04 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars hits you, doing 145.1 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:39:04 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars barely scratches you, causing 89.0 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:39:04 ] (combat) <color=0xffbbbb00>your group of dual 650mm repeating artillery i hits eggars (ishtar), doing 306.7 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:39:07 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>anon amarr (zealot) aims well at you, inflicting 609.3 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:39:07 ] (notify) pure vile (curse) has started trying to warp scramble you![ 2009.06.18 21:39:09 ] (combat) <color=0xffbbbb00>your group of dual 650mm repeating artillery i lightly hits eggars (ishtar), doing 211.4 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:39:18 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars heavily hits you, inflicting 211.2 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:39:18 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars places an excellent hit on you, inflicting 225.9 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:39:18 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars hits you, doing 142.8 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:39:18 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars hits you, doing 146.0 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:39:18 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars lightly hits you, doing 121.7 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:39:39 ] (notify) kenzore (zealot) has started trying to warp scramble \"natasha joviche (hurricane)\"[ 2009.06.18 21:39:39 ] (notify) saoralba (huginn) has started trying to warp scramble \"natasha joviche (hurricane)\""
"apparently now i'm in my pod...------------------------------------------------------------ gamelog listener: chebri session started: 2009.06.18 21:39:44------------------------------------------------------------[ 2009.06.18 21:39:51 ] (notify) junk rider (ishtar) has started trying to warp scramble \"natasha joviche (hurricane)\"[ 2009.06.18 21:40:00 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars heavily hits you, inflicting 201.3 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:40:00 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars places an excellent hit on you, inflicting 226.3 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:40:00 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars hits you, doing 173.8 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:40:00 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars hits you, doing 236.4 damage.[ 2009.06.18 21:40:00 ] (combat) <color=0xffbb6600>bouncer ii belonging to eggars lightly hits you, doing 157.3 damage."
"] (notify) junk rider (ishtar) has started trying to warp scramble \"natasha joviche (hurricane)\". the image shows me in my typhoon yet the logs indicate i am in my pod.petitioned."
"sign. fleet war battles on 20 vs 20 sucks so hard. it lags lags lags. i got videos of fw where you can see how terrible your severs handle a small gang vs gang in low sec.i have lost many ships i might could have saved cus of this.something must be done. we pay 14,95 every month, so we want a game where we can come and have fun, not a game where we gotta think \"oh **** a nice fight, but it will lag, i log out.\" hope you understand me. please stop all those graphic eye kindy your doing and instead fix the lag on low sec severs.ty.signed."
"signed"
"i do know our fleet quickly broke up after that--not because of the loss, but the inability to do anything about it.endorsed"
"even 10v10 can be iffy =/"
"signed"
"improved post with correct character."
"board settings >> me."
"back in december i tried to raise a rabble about this issue. and though all types of non-fixes and screw ups have been implemented since then, oh excuse me, i meant features-fw lag hasn't changed a bit. signed and then some. please ccp, fix this."
"definitely supported. fw needs some love because its current form is not really a good one."
"let me preface this by saying that i am a gallente fw pilot, and as such would not receive this medal. nor do i even plex.regardless of whether or not you think that plexes are worth anything, or whether they are pve or pvp, a lot of individuals spent a lot of time coordinating to take those systems, and ccp decided to reward those pilots with a medal.now, when the plex war was won, many of those pilots and corporations decided that it was time to move on. they'd worked hard, they'd achieved their goal, it was time to move on to something different.i propose that the caldari medal for taking all systems in fw be given to those pilots who were actually in factional warfare on the caldari side at the time all systems were taken, and not to those you joined after the fact. if there's a medal going to be given out for such activities... give it to those pilots who did the work.thanks for listening."
"supporting my own topic."
"thank you chatgris. supported."
"thank you chatgris and i am supporting you with all i got on that issue bbedit: forgot the thumbs duh"
"supported."
"fully agree.damar rocarionbrigadier general"
"supported. good job caldari! 22nd even more so."
"signed, also a gallente fw pilot here. the likes of the 22nd, who were at the forefront of the entire campaign but left fw between taking the last system and the announcement of the medal are far more deserving of this than some random nubs who hadn't even entered the warzone before the conquest was completed (whether that is because they joined after the last system fell, or they've been in all along but never actually participated)can we also get a confirmation from any gallente players who have spies within the caldari militia whether or not their spies received the medal as, if they did, then that's a real slap in the face for the guys who actually worked for this."
"pretty much a no-brainer. i hope this still might happen by the date they set out in the scope release.oh, and while you fw types are popping in here, please stop by this thread and support it to request more info on fw development from ccp.dohl"
"supported."
"i support this!chatgris is the most awesome frog ever! i only ever jammed her once but after that we have had a nice friendly relationship =)*edit*i want to thank everyone who is posting in here to support not only the 22nd but the other pilots who missed this medal like logan & kruger, we all appreciate that even though we have spent months at war and smacking one another on the boards or in local you are all able to put that aside and support us fellow players. thank you!"
"thanks a lot chatgris and to the rest of you qcats.i'm sure there must be other fw corps that are in the same boat. if you are, make sure to post up here.please make sure you support this thread as well.thanks"
"thanks a lot chatgris and to the rest of you qcats.i'm sure there must be other fw corps that are in the same boat. if you are, make sure to post up here.please make sure you support this thread as well.thanks"
"all of my spies that i still have in state pro got the medal, however the ones i pulled out after all the captures were complete didn't get it.edit: supported. 22nd deserve some type of reward for what they did."
"this should be a no brainer, i swear ccp just make a mess of stuff on purpose sometimes ;)"
"supporting cause it makes sense."
"agreed."
"supported"
"heartily supported.t."
"supported!"
"lol, ccp fumbled this one in a classic manner.even gallente spies get the medal, a good number of those that did the actual work don't.anyway, bump to make fun of another epic ccp fail.next time, you may want to delete the boot.ini from the 22nd corp members. (i am on a mac btw, so just go ahead)."
"good job caldarians, i agree, the acknowledgment to the correct guys. hey gallenteans, when we will catch up ?"
"supported."
"supported, you guys deserve it."
"good luck with this."
"unbelievable. ccp fails. i know how tedious the task of capturing a whole constellation is, as we did it twice as part of fw. the 22nd are honored enemies of our fw day. they were the driving force behind calmil capture of all the systems. they deserve this award as much as anyone."
"it's a no brainer. any system for determining who gets those medals that does not include the 22nd is a broken system. those guys did the bulk of the labor, as far as i saw things from the wrong end of their gun barrels, in taking the systems and if they aren't getting a medal then the medals lose all their value. come on, ccp, give the 22nd a medal, they earned it.supported."
"if you did the work, you deserve the medal."
"it might be murderizin' time."
"supported"
"these guys spent hundreds of hours running plexes and they deserve the medal. by giving it to anyone and everyone in the caldari militia you are devaluing it. come up with some other criteria other than 'just being in the militia'."
"supporting any medal topic.what they should do is look who had a caldari rank at the date of the capture, as some people contributed a lot but left later on."
"proud 22nd member who knows who did the work for this. will we get recognition? i hope this thread stirs up something in the fw office at ccp.cheers chatgris."
"full support."
"/signed"
"i support this, and it says something that the ememy militia are rooting for us, thanks to all supporting this thread particularly those outside caldari militia hope ccp acts on this"
"supported - medal sniping shouldn't happen, but it will, and anyone who worked for it and left after it was over should be rewarded for what they did, not for wasting two weeks after it was over. they should have had the medal prepped when the outcome was obvious, issued it over downtime when the last system switched(or immediately after, or something), and avoided this nonsense entirely."
"they're plex *****s but truly deserve that medal"
"agreed, give them the medal."
"utterly ridiculous. you have my unending support, and if ccp won't give the 22nd folks the medal, i'll chip in some isk to help pay for them giving themselves the medals (what is it, 5m per pilot?)."
"supported fully. they had a first. everyone involved should be recognized."
"i don't like plexing, it's boring, and the caldari won without doing any pvp, yadda yadda yadda.regardless, if they're going to get a medal those who took part should get it, if only for the amount of boredom they must have withstood.this just shows laziness on ccp's part; surely they would have noticed the last gallente system would be about to fall, so get ready to quickly implement a reward on the date of capture rather than after the plexing juggernaughts left.no matter how loud we cry out though, i doubt ccp, or the majority of the csm will listen. fw pilots are a large chunk of the eve player base, something near the size of the 0.0 demographic, i think, yet they get more shiny toys; look at the recently revamped sb!"
"these modules could be used in a variety of ways and could offer more imaginative fitting options, some cruisers only have 10 bandwidth and drone bay, add the med module for both of these and now you can use 5 light drones, 2 med drones and 1 lit, or 1 heavy. plus a little extra drone bay space for backup, but then of course you are down by one high slot, one low slot and a chunk of your hull, some cpu and power gridthen also some bs already have full usable bandwidth but no or little extra drone bay and alot of low slots, so you put one of these drone bay cargo conversions on and youve got extra back up drones or different kinds of drones for different situations"
"supported."
"sounds good to me. i have always felt the raven was a bit lacking in this area... i mean there should be enough space in a ship like that...since (looking at the ships over all) gallente ships are more drone orientated. i have always thought that it would be cool to be able to control more than 5 drones on them. mini carriers you might say. maybe something like \"+1 drone for every 2 levels trained in <insert ship skill here (example gallente battleship)\" a carrier can have a max of 10 fighters out, 20 for mother ships, hence my suggestion for the \"every 2 levels\". so a domi can have 7 out, but the other races are stuck with 5. i am caldari... i like drones. they are just hard to counter. maybe make defender missiles useful as a drone counter measure? ... but then the \"defender missile\" also really needs a buff/redesign to be really useful... maybe it should work like the flares they use in fighter planes? 1 splits into 8 and counters whatever is incoming (drones/missiles), or something along those lines.i mean people would rather complain about something instead of using the designed counter...ok, you get where i am going with this.. fly safe.o7"
"i like the idea of an expanded dronebay. if you can expand your cargohold, you should be able to expand your dronebay. however, can't support this because bandwidth increase is overpowered. boats without drones shouldn't have them, and seeing the myrm running ogre iis again would be... well... interesting."
"not supported, last thing i want is someone shouting down an intel channel saying \"i am under attack in my ass, on the gate to her vagina! help!!!\""
"oh, you mean how they name outposts things like \"butte and donge\"? i really feel that this is something that's missing in eve. if a system was called \"butte and donge\", i would move there straight away!"
"i lol'd. being as i'm at work, this earned me some odd looks.since i got odd looks, i cannot support this topic."
"this is the perfect reason to never, ever let this idea go through. we don't need it."
"amusing as this is, it would get old faster than \"your mom\" jokes.edit: not supported"
"would support the name only being visible to those in the system."
"i agree"
"this would be nice otherwise no"
"if anything, gallente should get armor links, and amarr should get new capacitor links (cap amount/ recharge rate / efficiency of energy emission devices (nos / neut / cap transporter)"
"fully supported."
"lol! wardeccing another corp. is griefing allright.. /signed."
"it's simple dierdra war decs for alliances start at 50 million and go up from there. while i realize that those of you rolling in isk from your multiple veldspar mining accounts see this as not a problem, i find mining highly boring, i also don't like to build stuff. this game is supposed to be multi-faceted and never safe, even without undcoking you can be ripped off. it seems that the previous csm really didn't want their hi sec operations disrupted at all, for various reasons, while this is understandable from their point of view, it does not represent the views of all of the eve community. some of us like smaller scale fights, not the hundreds of ships and all the lag associated with those fights. try looking at the situation from another point of view. the csm is afterall supposed to represent the views of the eve community (not just their own views) to ccp.iwant urstuffceo iwant urstuff corp"
"last time you decided to have an opinionyou don't even bother reading let alone hear anyone out so you have very little room to speak."
"we are... your wanting to take on more war-dec's simultaneously while keeping it cheap.alliances have unlimited access but its rather expensive.i can't support this due to that fact. if you really want it that bad... then you'll just have to make your own alliance. maybe you'll find out that there's more to eve then just war-dec'ing."
"unfortunately, you are not the entirety of the eve community, so stop playing the martyr. you post an idea, multiple people comment on it, and the csm ultimately decide what to take to ccp. the fact that your idea isn't generating as much support as you might like isn't evidence of some great scheme to oppress the pewpew community."
"well the fearless snoozer has requested we get on and start supporting this. i really think it is high time the csm debate this topic. the last time this was raised there was a lot of support from many various eve playstyles and groups. i find it interesting that those players seem to have given up on the csm even considering something that has even a low probability of impacting their playstyle.gimme urstuff"
"hate to break it to you... but supporting a topic means nothing.anyone can click that stupid button and say support... and anyone can grab 10 freaking alts and do the same thing.the csm is not that stupid...they are smart enough to figure out who's bs'ing and whose serious about it.the true test is substance and overall opinion.. and furthermore whether the csm as a whole agrees with the prospect."
"bah this is nuts. i hope the csm passes on this."
"we should be allowed to have more active war decs in empire when you in a corp, 3 war decs per corp is not enought and i believe that the csm should address this issue, i am in full support of have more active war decs."
"you can. form an alliance. unlimited wardecs. costs a bit more, but that's what eve is all about. cost vs benefit. so go form an alliance!"
"i resubscribed for the \"industry expansion\" that got turned into something else. (though i do like the expansion that was added.)would like to see more industry development, especially mining and making it more challenging/entertaining to do."
"i think the overall s&i system works pretty well as it is. some overall improvements could be made around it though.prospecting - i'd like to see static belts finally start to dwindle away. combined with grav sites increasing in appearance. there has been enough time for most people to twiddle with the new scanning system, so it's time to make it part of mainstream mining use. one addition required is some sort of corp bookmark system, and preferably bookmarks with limited lifetimes as well.evemail - can we get some sort of thread management? at the very least, let us stop grouping by sender, and just view messages sorted by date?pos life - the pos really should become the factory of the future. stations are not going to grow with demand, but the pos use can. the current pos situation is limited in usefulness, only by it's inconvenience. lets remove some of the inconveniences. link pos storage systems, such that an s&i job can pull materials from a corp hanger/other array at the pos. this can be done by implementing two changes. first, allow naming of all pos modules. second, change the s&i input and output dropdowns to 2 each, one for location, one for division.ratting interference (tech 1/named market) - ratting/missioning has too much of a direct influence on the tech 1 markets in eve. i suggest that instead of dropping completed tech 1 & named modules, that instead the rats drop either named item bpc's, or some other form of meta improving device, that can be combined with a player manufactured tech 1 module to create the named variant. ratting interference (mineral market) - if the previous suggestion is not implemented, how about instead putting a cap on scrapmetal processing... 75% cap would be enough to put mining back on top as a major source of all mineral types. this would bring supply and demand back to a more predictable number, removing these pseudo price caps created by the mission/ratting community."
"supported. every other mmo i've played has supported this."
"take a good long look at faction war, the corporation management ui, and pos operations, and then tell me what you think the chances of that happening are."
"look op... if you had the an opprotunity to turn on your brain this is a good time to do it.this requires a total rewrite and restructureing of mechanics of the game... this changes so many things that it's just completely out there.anyone with a little bit of background in programming knows this.compounded by the fact your dealing with an unknown number of ships... that could be \"on grid\" without warning... and anything else that could come up.... asteroids... stations.. objects...etc.you are simply not thinking this through... your so blinded by the brilliance of your own rear end that you cant see straight.this will simply not happen... ccp would sooner scrap the sov. system in 0.0 and rewrite that then do tihs.... and they plan to work on that as it is!"
"by past experience ccp should not change anything nor bother to release patches/expansions due to how poorly they made previous things, amirite? you do not know that do you?you're an ignorant little fool. stop posting **** please.i do not really see how the game mechanism that allows line-of-sight that were used on missiles could not be used on e.g. projectiles. simply quick way would be to alter projectiles with missile launcher code but with projectile animation, then have the altered projectile act as a missile, but with instant hits; 50,000 m/s."
"yes. i totally agree. this would fix so many problems with this game.more seriously though, i think this proposal would make life a lot more interesting, allow for more tactical situations, give miners some more tactical options for escape./supported"
"stop being deliberately ignorant. i'm not saying ccp shouldn't release patches, and you bloody well know it. i'm saying that making significant changes that have the potential to completely kill the game is not the course of wisdom.if you're going to continue to purposefully not understand what the armguments presented against this are, i can only conclude that, at this point, you're trolling to see if you can drum up more support and further attempts at discussion would be futile."
"sounds like it'd be interesting and educational to me :). would certainly put a new context on suicide ganking. suicide reverse-gank?"
"i suggesated this before and i was told it would cause too much server lo0ad...people that are talking about logistical nightmare.. do you have any idea of how hard it is to hit something on accident in 3 dimetional space? we are talking about tens of degrees of in rotation fo your turret, and you will miss target. hte only way feature would work is if you go begind something on purpose, e.g. hide logistics fleet behind a massive capital, or with a frigate go behind asteroid. realistically your chase of hitting anything smaller then a moon or a station on accident are next to 0. now let's see how low is the chanse of this happening. i will not be lazy and will do the math.when you jump in you jump at 15 km from jump gate. 4*15^2*3.12 gives us surface area of about 2.8 billion meters squared. sig radius of a shuttle is 25m, that's cross-sectional area os less then 1962 m^2, we will take sise of projectile as 0 because it is so small there is no poin t of caclutating it. your chanse of hitting a shuttle would be below 0.000007 and that is if you bullet is crossing the a5km radius of stargate at all, and we did not take in account that stargate itself is like 1-3 km is size depending on the model, that would make the chanse even lower."
"oh so i suppose that you expect ccp to snap there fingers and make it so?are you really that dense to think that programing such a feat would be so easy?how old are you again? what is it do you do for a living again?"
"which points a very clear problem out... precision is the key factor in such a thing.would require far more computing power and far more calculations than normally seen in such a game.and that data has to be relayed to others... much like a 3d space first person shooter without a floor...the algorithms alone would be a nightmare... the math you left out... is far more complicated than it looks.for every object... there are even more factors to add to the table...much like calculating the water ripples on a pond with more than one object present."
"1. how so?<--seriously we've looked at trade skills to no avail. and can't seem to get a courier amongst to go past 120k3. yup i know its not supported... i guess i am suggesting it be so supported. asking 300 people is a challange worthy of hercules which leads into... with respect and perhaps some naivety, but what reason would anyone say no for? better yet implement the support but also allow the individual player the option to turn it off like invitations can be."
"yes, 120 km3 is the current cap. if you're putting in a new cap, however, it should be 981,250 m3 - the size of a charon with caldari freighter 5 trained. anything that cannot physically be carried shouldn't be able to be put into a courier, but if it can, then it should be allowed. some people are paranoid about personal information. there may well be folks who would rather drop corp than give up their api, and ccp shouldn't change the game rules halfway through to screw them over. please, won't someone think of the same-account alt spies?"
"i'd rather not share my api key if i don't have to. maybe an option for the corp member to toggle this?no. as far as i know, they can access different damage types anyway, but i think range changes. i'm not amarr, so i'm not 100% on thatwhat exploit? if you're referring to suicide ganking, then hell no. eve should never be a safe place and players should be held accountable for laziness and stupidity.i don't think we had this feature before. this idea does make sense though - kind of a report aggregator maybe. i'd say just a report that compiles all your audit containers rather than the entire corp-hanger though. if you're not responsible to put your stuff in audit containers, then you deserve to lose it. use contracts for stuff that you can't put in cans."
"i've written a lenghty post but lately you log in to post, write your bit and then press post reply and it bumps you back to the log in screen. yes you can say save it or write it in \"word\" but do you really want 1000's of saved bits of old eve posts saved somewhere or is ccp looking at this ?"
"i believe that a broad forum fix is on the list, somewhere. the issues with the absurd login timer will probably be fixed at the same time as such icons of fail as the 4000 character limit and caod. still, supported, because it's still nonsense."
"yeah, it's been going a bit crazy lately. it seems completely random as well."
"completely crazy, and completely ******ed that they don't just switch to one of the major forum softwares on the market and give up on their failed web experiment they've got going on here."
"supporting any thread that adresses forum fixes.god, their forums software seems to be at least as poorly coded as the game itself...."
"i think the reason it bumps you back to the log-in screen is because you are saving the password for your account via your browser and then trying to log in with an alt account to post, the browser gets confused to why your typing in different credentials than previously saved. i noticed this other day.but if thats not the case, yeah supported"
"i was paranoid before i started playing eve. short version of that story is: eve didn't help.i never save passwords. i don't have any alt accounts, and i hardly ever post with the alts on this account. so no, that is not the reason. besides, it only started recently. of course, i use the copy paste trick to circumvent it, but it's not really a fix.sometimes, i log in, write a post, need to log in again, post, log out, browse another topic, suddenly i'm logged in again. the first time this happened i thought my account was getting hacked, so i changed my password. then it happened again, and again... and it's still there.so, you might as well hit the support button."
"that's not the case - trust me.this software has gone from crap to utter and complete excrement in the last few weeks."
"supporting the hell out of this. nothing is more annoying then typing up a response to a thread and forgetting to copy it first and losing it. sigh: 2 attempst to post this...."
"not supported. i have been double neut'd by a bs before in a ceptor and my passive recharge is more then enough to have a point back in a matter of three seconds. not only that it is the only real defence against ceptor's for most battleships."
"not supported."
"let's get rid of ecm, it jams my gun cycles :(let's get rid of nos/neut, ohh noes i cannot run my point for 3 secondslet's get rid of sensor damps, my sniper ship can't lock far targets to deliver the pewlet's get rid of warp scram's, they negate my ability to mwdlet's get rid of webs, they don't shut something down they just make me slow and i hate being latelet's get rid of smart bombs, they disable my ability to send my drones after a target that is using themlet's get rid of any ship that can kill me, they disable my ability to defend my e-honordude neuts/nos are fine."
"hrm, ok then. i thought you'd have more support by now, bit since you don't, i'll help you on you merry way. i probably won't use this feature much, but i can think of a lot of uses for it, and i'm sure other people can make use of it./supoorted"
"while i support it because it seems a good idea and fills in a gap, i would like to point out that it does nothing for those of use living away from stations... i really wish there was a way to do contract level arrangements in space (pos)... w-space residents would love this for inter-corp payouts and the like."
"supported"
"apparently most of the rejections here fall into the category of \"users should be 100% responsible for their own passwords and should not receive any help at all to improve their security\"supported."
"i can't stand forced password rotation in real life, and i certainly don't want it in my game time. i do feel my eve account information is important, and as such, use a strong password that is not used anywhere else. that is enough.definitely not supported... hating that it was even brought up..."
"the simple fact is that, even if you get help to improve your security, you are still 100% responsible for your own account. you, you, you. nothing ccp, or anyone else for that matter, can do will prevent from doing stupid crap with your password. you have to be responsible for your own internet security.here's a fun scenario for you - and trust me, it happens more than you think - ccp forces eve account password change. \"damn\", says stoopid luser 1, who changes password, and then immediately goes to every website he uses that username and password at and changes them all there, so he doesn't have to remember more than one. which is normally why they used the same one in the first place. you're not adding security, you're adding the illusion of security."
"purely from a customer service standpoint, ccp would have way more problems to deal with by implementing this than not. you're putting an awful lot of faith in people to be able to figure this system out, whereas in my experience i work with boatloads of people who make more money than me who on a good day might be able to turn their computers on.this is a game and ccp seems pretty quick about fixing hacked accounts./not supported."
"qft x 10000000/thread"
"also, 2 years ago, players could save the password in eve, so they could use a long password and different than others games, as you didn't have to use it all the time.ccp removed it to increase security. indeed, some idiots forgot to not check it at work and some others things...as you have to retype the password all the time, this incitate to use short, easy passwords who can be typed fastly.by removing this feature, ccp reduced the security."
"for forcing people to use a sufficiently complex password, i would support this. forcing me to change the password? no thanks.i am bright enough to use different passwords for different purposes, never re-using the same password for two different sites. i am also bright enough to use passwords containing more than one of each of the following;1) uppercase letters2) lowercase letters3) numbers4) symbols (like hash, pound, star, etc)what i do fully support is further education of the eve community so they know what the risks are, and how to deal with them."
"1)a module that significantly (50-75%) cuts the effect of energy neuts, vamps and friendly energy transference on the ship. also makes the ship's own energy neuts less effective. takes a med. which slot should it take though, med. low or high? by logics i would say low because thet's where capacitor is, by gameplay i would say high would make it more legimate on many battleship setups.it will not be the end of cap warfare as it is not going to save an af from bs neuting it, but will create a counter, as currently there is no counter for cap warfare, and it's effishiency is immence.medium slots are already very loaded, so no point of creating another mid. slot module. i don't think this modules needs a drawback. 2) a rig would also come in handy. 3) opposed to this we could have a module that increases energy neut effishiency, makjes ship more vulnerable to capacitor warfare, and get's nerfed in groups and eats alot of cpu like other weapon upgrades."
"umm, no. there are plenty of counters to cap warfare. ie:jamming, boosters, moving out of range (omg, no way!) rechargers, batteries, shall i go on? we don't need another module that can counter it. --isaac"
"duplicate thread"
"no.also trying to shoehorn a nerf of heavy neuts into another proposal so your frigates are invincible is bad form."
"1)a module that significantly (50-75%) cuts the effect of energy neuts, vamps and friendly energy transference on the ship. also makes the ship's own energy neuts less effective. takes a med. which slot should it take though, med. low or high? by logics i would say low because thet's where capacitor is, by gameplay i would say high would make it more legimate on many battleship setups.it will not be the end of cap warfare as it is not going to save an af from bs neuting it, but will create a counter, as currently there is no counter for cap warfare, and it's effishiency is immence.medium slots are already very loaded, so no point of creating another mid. slot module. i don't think this modules needs a drawback. 2) a rig would also come in handy. 3) opposed to this we could have a module that increases energy neut effishiency, makjes ship more vulnerable to capacitor warfare, and get's nerfed in groups and eats alot of cpu like other weapon upgrades."
"capacitor booster i"
"something like this should be called a capacitor stabilizer.if it was implemented it should be with a penalty... more than what was suggested.much like a war-stab would affect a ship."
"ok, what penalty do you suggest and how much would it affect the other's capability to neut you?"
"1) capacitor booster2) capacitor control circuit3) egress port maximizerseriously, neuts are short range (heavies or curses generally work around the 24-35km range max) and easily countered with a module that is useful.compare that to ecm which completely and easily takes you out of the fight from 80km and whose counter is a module that is completely useless for anything else."
"as i said in your other thread, we already have too many counters to neuts/noses.jamming, boosters, batteries, rechargers, moving out of range. we don't need more.--isaac"
"discussing forum moderation is not allowed.applebabethread locked.applebabe"
"depends on the rules, really. the second one was basically flaming the mods, which is lock-worthy on any forum, but the first could go either way depending on the details of how this is worded. if \"discussing moderation\" is defined broadly enough, it's lock-worthy. personally, i'd have answered it instead of locking, but personally i've never modded a forum with more than a half-dozen posters. if answering that kind of thread is a bad idea in the long run, and it may well be, then locking and telling them to petition might just be the better way of doing things. and in either case, expecting a largish company to change established policies just because you think they're bad is...an unlikely prospect, shall we say."
"tell you what op... how about you try being a moderator of a several thousand user forum board and then tell me that you think.you guys always are quick to jump and point fingers thinking in your small little world and narrow vision... how about you think before you judge next time eh?am i saying they are perfect? no... they make mistakes.. hell i even had a couple minor run ins... but this is not my board... this is not your board.. it belongs to ccp and they will run it as they see fit.so chew on that before you decide to point fingers."
"thanks for posting this. i was going to get to something similar myself.i'll add my desire for the csm to get this into discussion. we are a community and need to have a free flow of thought and action within the boundaries of being tolerable to each other. we need to know what those boundaries we are allowed to work within. as it stands, certain forums such as crime & punishment are useless. (my perception is that c&p is exactly for posting of chatlogs and killmails in order to declare justice or brag about your crimes -- or vice versa as the case may be.)"
"you forgot caod."
"maybe they should structure the forums according to moderation levels and keep the color coding for clarity."
"give the new guy a break, imo.all the mods are a bit aggressive when they first start, it takes them a little time to find a happy balance"
"spot on drake. tl;dr: they're human.for the record, i think zymurgist is doing an awesome job, considering how long he's been working the forums. if you consider how many cleverly disguised trolls you get on these forums, moderation is actually a very difficult job. a mistake here and there is to be expected. if you have a problem, you can file a petition or whatever."
"[x] the ninja salvager should not be aggro'd to the mission runner after the first wreck is salvaged, because i support ccp's current ruling that salvage is free for anyone with the proper tools to retrieve from wrecks.the misson runner has all the advantages and benefits of the mission.rewards, bonuses, loyalty points, bounties, loot, standing and salvage.the ninja salvager only salvages with impunity.if he loots then he is at risk.how much does the mr want! lets put an end to the myth that salvage worth more than all the other advantages. it is not. granted it can run into the millions, but its not close to the other benefits!i run l4 missions with my alt, sometimes i get 10-30 million. salvage is only 5-7 million of that. and that is after an hour of probing and salvaging.and you need more?!?ninja please! stop the tears!"
"i can't say i regret an elitist quality to eve. i like the environment and the ruthless quality of it. i've been on the receiving end of many an unkind volley but that's the nature of the beast. i don't particularly enjoy seeing my ship explode but it is part and parcel of the experience.some people find they are not cut out for the callous, indifferent nature of the eve universe. i see their tiny boats floating near stations and stargates.so be it.abulurd bonifaceme meceo"
"there's actually a simpler way.base the payout on two things - the value of ship/implants destroyed and the sp of the character killed, with the former being the lion's share.in this way the -10.00 alt, in order to be worth anything at all will have to be a separate account trained up (or a purchased character) and there will be no ship value to someone who has to go buy the ship or pops someone in a noobship. in addition, some programatical stuff can be put in to negate payouts if the victim isn't actively fighting - which can still be got around but at least requires more time and effort to do.in this way, the rewards for an unrelated character killing mr. pirate are significant if he's flying any kind of vessel at all. and if he's not he's going to be easy meat. however the rewards for me killing my alt are small, because all i'm getting is a percentage of the ship which i then have to replace. a losing proposition."
"you should a lack of understanding of economics.what you say is true enough, on an individual level - but economies are not about individuals. for instance - why is jita the place to go for trading (and for scamming for that matter)? because it's where the isk is, yes? it is, hopefully, where you can sell your goods for the best price and buy for the cheapest price.but why is that true? jita's no 'better' place than, say, amarr or rens. the money is better there because the people are there.people are not in highsec because the money is better there - although that is certainly true for missioners, traders and many manufacturers - they are there because the environment (specifically concord) makes that a more profitable environment for those occupations.some perceived 'nerf' to the high sec economy will not change that reality and will not cause those people to move. the population will stay because it's safer and that's what they want. any change sufficient to really, dramatically affect that will simply cause customer loss to ccp as the 'carebears' go elsewhere and the entire community suffers as ccp has less resources to improve the game.a buff to some other areas like low sec, coupled with changes which improve player ability to improve their security somewhat will entice some of them out - those who would probably eventually leave anyway. it's somewhat risk/vs reward, but those things have to factor in some out of game effects (like an inability to fly in a pvp zone while watching kids etc.)"
"armagedon dayi will wikify the issue tonight."
"if possible, please gather information from ccp regarding the csm open issue \"make certain factions more valid for mission running - part 2\". the recent shuffle of level four agents caused a bit of a stir. i'm interested in knowing what future plans ccp may have regarding this. with additional epic story line missions supposedly on the way, being able to improve faction standings 'across the board' would likely be appreciated by many.i'm getting ready to wrap up my interbus mission running experiment -having just exceeded 325k lp with no chance of improved faction standings and no lp store. i'm wondering why such agents are even in the game.thank you and have a lot of fun."
"what happened to the results of this meeting? i can't find them, either here or on the wiki."
"they were late being submitted (by me) to ccp, and still haven't been submitted since my laptop crashed and burned (literally, stupid faulty powercord). i'm in the process of retyping them now. huge apologies for the delay, i'm hoping to have them done before the weekend."
"great! much appreciated.just out of curiousity, once you submit the to ccp, when should we expect to see them? and where?"
"eve is not broken, it is impaired. people are broken.yes, ccp has introduced a lot of things without thinking about long term perspectives, or even taking into account how crazy the customers are with pixels, or even understanding how lazy they really are, but please let's keep in mind that we have done the **** to ourselves.ccp has never forced us to spam a hundred moons, or required 400 dreads to kill a pos. we have looked at mechanisms with limitations and gone overboard, consistantly, continuously.i agree that the situation needs changes, and apparently changes are coming, but we can only hope that this time ccp look at the long term, and take into account fully how we players twist and turn things nuts on purpose, just for the easy win. more and more it becomes clear that you don't need to bother with stations, and can just take the holy x64 and dump that into big toys without reservations.alliances keep spare motherships around by the dozen in case those get a boost, they continue to build titans so that when the doomsday get revamped or replaced they can compensate with numbers, as i said ccp has a limited view sometimes, but it's us that is nuts.0.0 is already used less and less, as it simply does not pay to make a real living there, and as people become more and more aversed to taking risks. alliances don't even need to bother with anything but the x64, since they can get everything they need from empire, cheaper and easier they relying on local nullsec resources. now in despair people whine about removing local, and forget how it will result in even less people using 0.0 space to serve as targets, and in their frustration they try to spin the fury by making macro and rmt responsible. when that doesn't work they try the gtc angle. fully knowing that all they want is a kneejerk change that would magically give them something to shoot at without effort every time they log in.changes are needed, but they will have to be consistent, with a real long term view, they will have to take into account the crazyness without limits of players, they will have to result in repopulating 0.0 and they will not be able to make everyone happy.smells like an expansion coming.now, fully in the spirit of eve, should you do go back to wow and quit, can i have your stuff?"
"i would also like to see some improvements to the afs especially the hawk"
"i think that afs are almost there and while deadly in the hands of a master (as any ship is).getting a 4th bonus would help... but i think it should be a role bonus rather than a ship bonus itself."
"+1what wang jing said."
"/signed"
"click count:locking:click 1. right clickclick 2. propose voteclick 3. ok+ open votesclick 1. expandclick 2. positive voteunlocking:click 1. right clickclick 2. propose voteclick 3. ok+ open votesclick 1. expandclick 2. positive vote+ open santionable actionsclick 1. expandclick 2. applycleanupdelete evemails, relog several times to fix \"already a vote in progress\" bug. etc.totals for 500 bpos:500 * (5 + 7) = 6000 clicks + navigation to the screens.i have rsi..... will i be compensated?"
"+ 500 * 2 * shareholders evemails to clog up servers.this means you can only do 100 per day or risk locking up your shareholders mailboxes.in our case it's 9000 evemails, we don't have many shareholders."
"a roles system is the correct way to run a corporation, after the shareholders have voted on it of course.what would normally happen with extremely delicate materials is the executors vote on the role being assigned, rather than the role being performed."
"just so youall know im trying to get feedback for a consolidated account security proposal for next csm meeting and it includes this idea. it is here:"
"thispeople arguing against optional added security need to get over the \"rawr im leet i r not get viruses\" crap."
"as long as the drones stop attacking and become scoopable as soon as the pilot dies/warps, good idea."
"oh heck yes"
"this would make me happy.i think theyd have to close jita tho./signed"
"supporting the massacre"
"we need this, need!!!!!!!"
"let chaos rule."
"a waste of time on something irrelevant and not even persistent. better transfer chribba's avatar to amarr if the devs really have a boring day at work."
"/signed"
"this is sort of a consolidation of the following threads reguarding account security, with some ideas added and removed after initial public feedback. the first thread below discusses an alternate authentication system such as used in wow, and the second thread discusses periodic password changes as well as the different ways that eve accounts are mass compromised."
"cripes. not external authenticator. token key authenticator (sorry, if you know about computer security seeing someone use the wrong term makes me ).password strength needs to be checked and passwords need to be rotated at least every 6 months. i'm not much of a fan of rotating passwords because people pick something very similar to their last pw and the whole thing turns out to be useless. changing username, sure that's a great idea as well as the other minor account security proposals.i think that token key authenticators for a video game is just a waste of time/effort/money. if you are smart enough to be paranoid about security, you probably don't give out your user/pass and don't fall for phishing attacks and have anti-virus software up-to-date. the factors in losing the token key puts additional strain on the ccp customer support team, and allows you to potentially bypassing a token key authenticator via the petition system. lastly, token key authenticators make it so people will play the game less because it is more of a hassle. so basically it will be optional and only the paranoid who know better will be protected so it won't reduced the amount of accounts being \"hacked\" at all.supporting this, but the main focus should be customer account security education. as is quite clear by playing eve or any other mmorpg, stupid people will get scammed and stolen from no matter how much you try to stop it, only by beating a player over the head with how dumb they are will help."
"as long as it is all optional, i'm down with the plan.since you cant protect the stupid from themselves no matter how many failsafes you force upon themofc i have no need of this stuff, i have been practicing safe interwebz password routine changes since before pcs had mice. (omg im old)---editbah forgot to clicky the thumby"
"yeah ive never used the token key authenticator, so i am not 100% on the specifics of it just that it allows people to protect their account even if their computer gets a virus on it, and that having it optional would be awesome. i bet if ccp worked out some deal with the vendor for kickbacks or something the costs of increased petitions could be offset, but thats just speculation. high profile targets like alliance leaders and chars with access to a lot of assets should be given the option for higher security in the face of targeted trojan attacks that they are more likely to encounter. even responsible computer users can get infected with new exploits and zero day vulnerabilities.i think the focus should be largely on education as well. putting up login screen notices with educational articles i think will go a long way to reducing costs of hacked accounts, with little effort overall.oh and i fix the name in the op"
"these all seem like reasonable ideas, since the whole \"mandatory password changes\" thing was removed. supported."
"supported with two caveats:1) i have the option to turn off the monthly reminders (through the menu or directly on the reminder box, whatever).2) none of this is mandatory (excepting the password strength check).this is a much better proposal mazz."
"a very well formulated proposal. two thumbs up! i've always been pro authenticators. oh and btw, could we maybe add the option to not gave a hw key generator, but a usb key instead?if you are confused now, allow me to explain:my gf is a scientist (a phd at that, you may worship me now), and one of the programs she useses need a little usb stick like thing in order for it to start. remove it, program closes. no need to generate a key, just need to \"plug in the key\" so to speak.i think this would be a lot easier than a hw keygen./supported"
"i bolded the part which i'm against. please make it opt-out, at very least."
"i strongly support both suggestions!password expiration noticemost common form of improved security. any user who ever had to work in corporate it environment is familiar with this concept, so the education phase would be minimal.the password change wouldn't be optional. a new password would have to be entered the first time the user logs on after his password has expired.the minimum requirements for passwords would be hardened (minimum length of 8 characters, alpha-numeric, special characters, mixed case, can't reuse old passwords, etc...)password would be set to expire every 90 dayshardware authenticatorsuggested device: vasco digipass go 6(this is what is used by blizzard for their blizzard authenticators)alternate authentication method using a hardware authenticator as a second layer of securitywould be completely optional. accounts using it would have a better security, accounts not using it would have basic security.would not replace your username or passworddevice is quite cheap and very easy to usedevice is impossible to crack or hack and is tamper-proofi'm personally using the blizzard authenticator and i can say it's extremely easy to use, plus it makes a great key chain."
"a usb key would mean that you are required to have a free usb slot to use it. not everybody may have a free one, so this is not a good idea. it's also much easier to hack since the usb interface gives you direct access to the data on the key, as opposed to a sealed device that can't be tampered with."
"i support this, with the caveat that the token key authenticator is optional. i do think, though, that periodic forced password changes (once a year is fine) and password strength enforcement are reasonable."
"i said it worked like an eve ad. that means it wont show up again after popping up once until something makes it pop up again and that behavior doesnt require you to click x or anything- hardly intrusive. how much more easily opting out do you want?"
"this... forcing anything on someone regardless of the reasoning behind it is not acceptable.. if the user chooses to be stupid.. let them be stupid."
"last bump before i let it die"
"/supported"
"yes. without a doubt.also a changing the monuments and replacing their faces with chribbas face wuold be funny."
"supported."
"supported completely"
"this. supported"
"supported"
"."
"/signedmy big issue is that the non-drone ships and the drone ships just aren't different enough. also the drone modules (other than the range extender) seem to have vanishingly little game effect."
"after three years of posts in the original thread, i think its time the devs seriously considered this. dismissing this as \"too hard\" is the lazy way out. i'm sorry that its too hard, but ya know what? this is what pos's should have been from the get go. as for the csm, if they don't bring this up again, then they need to be replaced. i'm sorry that you are afraid the devs wont like you, tough, your job is to represent us, not kiss their butt."
"its about time carebears got hotdropped."
"i'd like the following subject added to this inquiry :- what are the plans concerning cloaked plexing ?"
"let it be so."
"signed, it just makes sense."
"thanx chatgris and all the other gal pilots that speaking out about this. hopefully ccp is listening..."
"thanks to chatgris and all are fw enemies. much respect to you all for speaking up for us. thanks for all the fun!"
"this seems fair."
"supproted"
"supportingedit:thumb up"
"give everyone a medal lol i know i deserve one for having patience with ccpsupported"
"supported."
"kassamies absolutely supports this suggestion."
"honestly, it should have been done this way from the outset. full support for all those that should have got the medal. also, those without a rank shouldn't have been given the medal given they did nothing towards it."
"have not taken part in fw, but have been fascinated by it since its start. as an icelander and a upcoming software engineer the pride and awe that i've had for ccp since they started in 1997 has slowly taken a beating through the years by stuff like this.seriously how hard can it be to read your own news and actually do what you say you'll do? also looking up who where signed up for fw on the caldari side on capture day is just one basic sql (or what ever system you use) command away!on a side note: 17.june is the icelandic independence day, not sure if that played some part in giving the medal away 6 day's early."
"bumping this with my support."
"supported."
"those people deserve a free month tbh for sticking with the fw crap and rallying so brilliantly so many times. giving the medal to people who didn't work for this or not giving it to those who did is insulting.ccp by allowing any other outcome than what the op is proposing would show the depth of their contempt for factional warfare, a feature which was supposed to change the face of new eden."
"i support this measure more so for my fellow corp mates and former fw pilots who helped capture a lot of gal space but either left before all systems were captured or right after they were.please guys take it easy on ccp, as to an extent it was just the rarest bunch of coincidences that caused the 22nd not to get our medals and there were a large number of pilots who deserved this medal that received it.flaming the medal as a fail belittles those who earned it and got it. while making the medal i'm sure was a very easy thing to do given any corp could easily duplicate it. the devs actually getting together to acknowledge a game event like this is rare and short of alliance tourney trophies, i can't think of to many.ax"
"so true.let's see, if the csm can make an exception to the seven-day rule for issues on the assembly hall."
"supported"
"dronez, they need support!"
"supported but the only drawback i see here is a hull hp reduction and the fact that its slots that most people would put more tank/dps on. this would definitly need a bigger penalty though like the bandwidth one requiring a lot of cpu or powergrid."
"yes. if megas can lose some of their tank for more gank, why can't i do the same thing with my domi?"
"i've always wanted to tell the fleet to set destination to the ****nipples system."
"forever no!and: the csm member above me saying 'yes' is a bit worringshame"
"it's a tempting idea, because all these systems with names like someone passed out face-down on a keyboard are making it hard for me to get my bearings- it makes space feel so... bland. but the potential for abuse is just to great, so i'd like to suggest the following restrictions:1) names can only be set once and cannot be changed until system sovereignty changes hands.2) names must be submitted to ccp for approval before being ratified. only appropriate names (i.e ones that actually sound system name-y) would be accepted.unless these safeguards are implemented, i can't support this."
"supported. anyone wanna take a roam up to herty land? how about new herty."
"this tbh."
"i'll try and post this for the third time. i have this issue not only in my corp but with old friends ive meet along the way and these people are in my address book.should i boot them or remove them from my address book or maybe they log in when im not on i've no idea. i know in the corp you can tell \"over a month\" since they logged on. err for bs lvl5 i probably wont log on for 35 days either like alot of my corpies."
"also ccp you should look at wiping all inactive accounts that are over 3 years old. do you honestly think these people will all of the sudden log in and pay-play again? its just more database clutter you can get rid of."
"i'm not sure i would want this sort of imformation to be public, it gives away way to much intel about a corps actual active roster.btw, i have known people who quit in 2004 and 2005, to come back for the first time in 2009 and restart their old chars.tl:dr gives out too much intel to reds."
"i am aware of this maybe this is a way to address the concerns of other players have i.e how anyone can put you into their address book to see it there on. so in effect to be on someones address book requires you to accept a buddy list request."
"i would have no problems with buddy list additions having to be a mutual thing, but good luck convincing many other players to give up what has been a long established wt intel status gathering tool.--i see what your \"problem\" is in your intial post, and i too have \"lost\" friends in eve. i wonder aswell if they even log on anymore, i just dont see your first or your second solution gathering much support. sorry."
"quite recently, some 2005 guys i know, came back on their accounts. so yeah, it's a good thing they keep it. then again, they can track all the trial accounts that never payed or used plex's, they should delete those. loads of names have been taken up due to this too..."
"not in support of any of this.i don't need people knowing when my alts are or are not active.keep them in your address book and boot them after a certain period.set your corp policy to allow people to re-apply if they've been booted for hiatus, and you shouldn't have many issues if your corpies tend to not log in for extended periods of time.deleting old player accounts is a bad idea. no mainstream mmo does this that i'm aware of."
"all directors of a corp can see last login/logout of corp members, so the \"over a month\" thing isn't a big deal. how you use your buddylist for intel is your business, i don't see why any rules changes are needed there. and for a subscription-fee game, you never, ever wipe old accounts. the database clutter is meaningless, whereas the ability to bring old players back in more easily is valuable."
"they should have a character archive database.any character that hasn't logged on in over a year should be moved there.if the owner of the character wishes to restore it, they would be able to do so in the account management services.there are several benefits in doing this:- character database backup and maintenance would take much less time, thus possibly reducing the length of weekly maintenance.- searching for a character in game wouldn't return inactive characters anymore"
"herschel i've forgotten the ammount of times ive started and quit this game since 2003 and all the alts created when major changes are made are my 60 various inactive accounts really viable ?"
"hi dap, sorry i can't play soo much these days. the family needs me badly these days. hopefully this will change sometime in the near future, but no promises.either way, i believe your right. there ought to be a way to know if people have not been on for a while. maybe even a way to figure out if they've de-subbed. in the corp i joined after leaving disso, the ceo suddenly left without any warning.i don't hold that against him, but i still think there should be a way to figure out what's going on. if he had desubbed, there would have been more reason to form a new corp. as it was, there was no way of knowing, and we went on for 6 weeks before taking action. this didn't help morale to put it mildly.i read a story about a guy that played wow and passed away, and his guild was like: \"omg, did we say something to upset him? did he leave? does he not care about us anymore?\" his daughter had to get him account info from blizzard and contact the people in the game to restore his honour (e-honour). i know that might sound lame, but it meant a lot to him, and his guild was very appeased by the message that they got at last. in fact, one guy thought he had left because of an arguement they had the day before. i can very easily imagine him living his life out with that feeling of guilt. i now it's just a game, but the people are real. i normally don't give a donkey about people in games, but i must say, i've met some very interesting people in eve, and even though i don't consider e-buddies friends, i... well, um... *sigh* well ok, you see, they're good guys... and you know? bah, allright, yes, i sort, of, well you know, kind of, percieve them as, friends... not that i don't have friends in rl. don't get me wrong.meh, i've spilled the beans. those guys are just too nice to not consider as friends. so yes, i think there should be options available. maybe a \"beg ccp to convey a message\". either way, i think a bit more clarity would help.ps: i feel sorry for all of you guys out there that haven't made any friends in eve."
"would ccp rather get the meg of hard drive space back, or would they rather give you the choice to come back at some point in the future? they don't know that you're never going to reactivate them, and they can probably fit every character in the game onto the sort of hard drive you can get at costco these days."
"that's why i said they should instead move the inactive character in a sort of archive database, so the main database is smaller and easier to maintain.i'm sure there are millions of characters in the character database, if not billions. that's a hell of a lot of records to backup during maintenance. the game has been around since 2003, so i'm sure a great portion of those characters have been inactive for over a year. cleaning them up would really help with database performance.as i also said, if a player wishes to restore an archive character, they would be able to do so in the account management page. a process would then move the character from the archive back into the live database."
"in other words, you want to create more database issues for ccp....as if they didn't have enough of those. no support for this thread. figure out who is active and who isn't. its not hard. --isaac"
"why should a creodron ship get a turret bonus?well, vexor and ishtar do and i honestly think that the medium hybrid turret damage bonus on those ships is one of the most useless things in the world :pwhy not change it to something... useful?"
"you are right honey"
"usefull like what exactly?"
"give it something to do with armor hitpoints or armor repair amount per skill level, it cant tank well at all, duel rep setup is nice but cpu is tight, buffer is nice but cpu is tight again, if it had such a bonus named above it would make it a tad easier to tank since we can use 1 less cpu intensive module like a eanm and fire in another plate or something, iunno.but yes, as a fellow ishtar pilot, worse bonus ever lol, i only ever fit light electrons if i can (damn cpu wont allow neutrons)"
"most heavy assault ships have the boni of the tech 1 hull, with an additional has bonus.breaking that up would make no sense for just one ship.the capabilities of the ishtar and the vexor are already quite formidable, both for pve and pvp. that many cruisers don't fit medium turrets in pvp is nothing new and no reason to adjust the ship."
"agreed."
"the ishtar is the tech 2 vexor, so breaking up the bonuses isn't an issue.also, the problem isn't that medium turrets aren't popular. the problem is that the whole point of the vexor and ishtar is that they are primarily drone boats. that's their main reason for existence, and their main method of dealing damage. putting a turret bonus on them makes about as much sense as putting a turret bonus on a drake or a raven.of course, tanking bonuses don't seem to fit well with the theme of assault ships, and the thorax and deimos get mwd bonuses, so i'm not really sure what would be a better fit, but it is a strange bonus to have on these ships regardless."
"this."
"i fail to see how raising the war dec limit from 3 to 6 will help solve the problems with high-sec wars. the biggest issues with highsec wars currently being neutral logistics mechanics, and hopping corps to avoid decs. raising the dec limit will accomplish very little."
"wardecs are for corporations to settle conflicts. as such, it works as it is now. it doesn't work well, but it works.what wardecs are mostly used for is extensive griefing and even for that it works. not perfectly, though. i don't consider that an issue.first the wardec mechanisms need to be improved drastically to make wardecs more useful as strategic tools, without buffing the griefing potential even more. that might not satisfy the op, though. i don't shed a tear for that.not supported."
"if the original poster wants fights so badly he should go get a rifter and fly to amamake or rancer. he'll get all the fighting he can stand.the idea of cheaply griefing more people so he can get his jollies? ummmm, no. he complains that most of those he wardecs just go hide or move. yeah, i'm sure they do - because they are not capable of fighting a war, particularly against experienced pvp types. which pretty much means, you got it in one, griefing."
"the basic problem is that the war dec system, as it stands now, is a steaming pile of excrement with a side order of crap.what really needs to happen is a complete revamp of the wardec mecahnics, tbqfh."
"thx for the support, though to be honest i'd be just as happy if ships would just stay in their alignment when they stop."
"supported."
"i like it!"
"like it"
"this. a thousand times this"
"makes almost to much sense really."
"i hate those you did 99% damage but some bastard passing by got the final blow kills.100 % supported"
"yes."
"i like the idea, but only after eve-api implementations get more solid in external killboards. i.e. people start properly configure their cronjobs to pull the data down daily. www.eve-kill.net does this, but it's not 100% reliable yet that i'm aware of - i don't know if other kbs do this or not. this will put the brunt of the database work and storage onto 3rd party servers (yay \o/).until this is more reliable, deleting kms isn't such a hot idea."
"supported"
"look at this thread.help to save eve and stop the arena and battleground crap by supporting this topic.please just place just your support here if you want to stop the crap.please place the discussion into the other thread.please dont forget to click the checkbox."
"frack no!!world pvp died in wow when arena and battlegrounds were introduced. wow had been almost cool until that point, after that the game became a scatfest."
"supported.kill battlegorunds/arenas, they will mutilate the game- the moment ccp implements instanced or riskless or consequenceless pvp i'm gone- as is the pvp core that forms much of the current playerbase that isnt grinding level 4's in hisghec."
"yup i am strongly against that or any similar crap."
"battlegrounds or instanced pvp would not kill eve.simple reason is that in eve you have to play the real game to gain benefits, like better ships or fueling your pos to keep it going and mining moons and such. world pvp in 0.0 revolves around taking and keeping space... there will always be fights there.one of the biggest reasons that hi-sec dwellers don't go out to losec or 0.0 is because of the risk, and that risk is only hightened by the fact that they don't know pvp.my point is, a battleground would help bridge the gap between high sec dwellers and lo and null sec dwellers. battlegrounds would offer nothing in terms of isk gain or risk. therefore, only people intrested in gaining experience in pvp would benefit from this.edit: and seriously, anyone saying battlegrounds would ruin eve is not thinking this through... i buy a deimos for the first time... i'm not taking it to lo or null sec before i get familliar with it."
"strongly supported! there is no room for this kind of crap in the single, persistent world of eve!"
"not suprised since you have been against anything that isnt good for 0,0 for years.imo eve should have room for ppl that wants to get 1vs1 fights as well rather then blobs and hotdrops in every fight u get"
"ever been on sisi..yea that is what your asking for. try sisi. that is why its there."
"get off of your ridiculously high horses. bring on the no risk instanced pvp... as long as there is no reward.no reward would make it so that new players (or old ones) can learn a bit before they get out there and kill for profit.no reward means there is not any worry of isk gain from a fun activity...battlegrounds would allow people to gain confidence in their setups and ships... and just might get them out killing and being killed in the real game. flaming this thread because it deserves to get flamed.^^^ to you good goon sir... sisi already acts like instanced pvp. but there are so few people on it... and the ones that are on it are the people who don't need the experience. new players don't get on sisi."
"i'm only partially against this.battlegrounds = big noarenas & tournaments = maybe... depending on how they are implemented, see below.i'm against any removal of the risk factor eve currently has. combat without the risk of losing your ship is a big no for me. however, i could see an interest in the arena & tournament concept, which is already somewhat in place with the alliance tournaments ("
"ok, so you are one of the few people on this planet (galaxy?) with no life, good for you. i have a family, and my time is extremely limited. i have a number of other things to do (things that need to be done). in my experience, it takes several hours to get a good fleet op going. 2-3hours is about as much as i can squeeze in in a day= no fleet op for me.arena's would allow me to pvp without having to sacrifice sleep. atm i don't have that luxury. i need all the sleep i can get (try having a baby, baby = no sleep). it'll be years before i can spend that kind of time playing eve.besides, you are wrong. wars in eve are fought over resources (apart from highsec wars which are a waste of time). resources yield income. thus, even with arena's, you no lifer's will still have plenty of other nolifer's to fight over resources. the only people that will benefit/make use of arena's are the people that can't sacrifice that much time to eve.arena's are a good thing. the problem those other games had was: no real assets to fight over. eve has plenty of things to fight for./no support for you"
"\"oh holy nature of eve online don't forsake me\" really? seriously?? there should be one aspect of the game where you can pew pew without losing or gaining anything. people in an arena would have nothing to gain. just some idle pew pew if you only have an hour to play.edit: oh... can i haz your stuff redsplat?"
"christ. seems like we are getting a thread about this every week.csm2 dealt with this issue in iceland in january, and told ccp that it was an awful idea(even if not everybody agreed).so this thread is pointless."
"well sadly for you, eve online is not for casual players who can only play a little bit here and there. since its launch in 2003, it has never been either. everything in eve takes time to achieve, and it's the soul of the game. in order to have enough resources to counter ship losses, you need to have a good corporation with a good supply chain. if you're trying to do freelance, no wonder you're finding it hard to do anything in this game with the short amount of time you can afford to spend. changing that would change the whole game completely. the more time you can spend in the game, the better you'll be, and this is always gonna be like that. a risk-free arena system (no ship loss) would change the face of the game too much.the only way they would be able to fit a sort of arena system is if you can still lose your ship, but that there's rules against intentional pod killing, much like the rules of the already existing alliance tournament. the rewards gained from winning arena matches would have to be things you can't use in combat outside the arena context as well (only medals, points, or isk rewards, no special \"arena ships\" or modules)."
"i don't like the idea of arenas etc. as i find the concept rather immersion breaking and out of character for eve - so i'm supporting.i don't like the elitist and rude attitude of the original poster - so that's not supported. i think it's a dumb idea too - but i don't feel the need to be snotty about it.<edit> after reading the rest of the thread perhaps it would be possible to implement were it like some kind of organized gladitorial combat (basically an 'in game' alliance tourney) but even then it would need to be very carefully designed.and if anyone thinks you couldn't make isk from it, think again. anything like that would draw some high stakes betting on the favorites!"
"this sort of stuff doesn't need to be on tranquility - this is what singularity and the alliance tourneys are for. that said, op, i think you're panicking a little too much - a random bad idea in f+i is hardly new, and this is far from the first time this idea has been proposed."
"aye, i was about to ignore the thread but then panic mode kicked in as i saw ccp chronotis posting: (source: page one of the thread linked above).rare case to see blue posts on f+i. maybe he just has his funny day.in general i dont have a problem with automated public tournaments every weekend/month/whatever. they can be funny if they are like the real tournament: a limited contest.but free arenas/battlegrounds are another thingy.i think it's better to point the csm once again to the topic rather than just to ignore it. just to be sure."
"oh, i just dismissed the thread out of hand, didn't scroll down that far. yeah, that's incredibly sketchy. i don't object to a few changes to make intentional pvp easier - say, an ability to give a defined list of players the ability to fight in highsec without needing can-theft mechanics - but the idea that a dead ship is dead is one of the core principles of eve. actions have consequences."
"its called a wardec.how about fixing those"
"i just wonder. there's lots of people who dig ladder type stuff, or who get a kick out of pixels showing rankings and such. i can imagine that crowd would be large enough for ccp to consider it a viable niche market. or at least a marketing element.the way the idea was vented in that thread however i have big diffculty seeing function in eve as it is now, still eve has changed dramatically over the years. stuff we pull off now was unthinkable in early years, and stunts pulled back then are now \"omg evil bad nerf\".personally i would much rather see a proper view on the wardec mechanisms tbh.but i can see an arena concept work as a corporate or alliance tool. something which would work as an internal tool for entertainment, maybe even practice or training (though tbh i think there is no training like the real thing). maybe it could be used for intercorp/alliance tournaments. along these lines i can see arenas as an idea yeah.but not as some open playing field. way too easy to abuse considering the schizofrenic design of eve, and way too deviating from open pvp which in eve you should not be able to run from forever."
"what the hell is the problem again?because i'm failing to see why this is such a big problem."
"yeah, i know. isn't people's lust for ladder rankings half the reason for fw? pvp without ships going boom. not really eve, imo."
"arenas arent going to stop eve pvp. for that to happen everyone in lowsec and 0.0 would have to move to highsec permanently between arena fights and only pvp in arenas."
"ah... i missed that part...change it to pvp with ships that go boom and the problem is solved.instanced combat with full blown possibility of death is win win imho.typically most greifing war-decs are for the hunger of pvp...give them an outlet of arena combat and you get yourselves the potential for gambling on the winner and such.even tourny ladders.... but you have to have the risk of death in it... otherwise its stupid.and yes.. war-dec fix before this.i claim neither as far as support/non support because this thread has changed directions one too many times. >.<;but i made my case clear either way. i'm sure ccp is not that dense."
"arenas are a game-breaking idea that would destroy pvp in eve."
"larkonis trassler > soupctttttttt > so i meant to do show info - but now that im in this private chat. with your new position on the csm thingy can you get them to move show info and start convo away form each otherlarkonis trassler > make topic on assembly hallctttttttt > i dont use the forums.ctttttttt > i shouldnt say that - i hardlyuse themctttttttt > plus they wont read.larkonis trassler >"
"nicely done."
"completely supported."
"... lol.i want this, and other things like:show info & reprocessmake active & trash it"
"unusual way to start a proposal... but i can't argue with the reasoning.supported."
"i lol'ed. a good laugh is always worth some:/support"
"supported."
"and while we're at it can we move the reply to topic and new topic links on the forum away from one another?/supported"
"hahaha"
"i hate convoing people i am tryin to scan down."
"hell yes.did i mention hell? did i mention yes?heavens, yes!"
"is there a way that dropping roles can sped up for character sales and such.do something like let ceo or corp appointed director kick character ,or slim down the time to 12 hours,or anything else"
"no, ccp put it in to prevent corp hopping every freaking hour. choose your corp wisely.--isaac"
"i would support a system that allows a corp vote to kick someone immediately, but anything else would make it too easy for thieves to loot corp hangers and leave before anyone realizes it. the current system is sometimes a pain, but actually fairly well balanced overall."
"this."
"this..."
"whereas, minamatar ships are underpowered and under used by players, and,gallente's are allies of the minmatar,ccp has had problem with higher speeds, which is the base of the minmatar fighting ability, and,tinker in mass with minmatar ships can be done faster than individual changes,the following changes should be made to large, medium and small minmatar ships:smaller signature radius: lower the sig radius of minmatar ships by 20%, 15%, 5% (l,m,s)add drone bay space without added bandwith by 50 m3, 25 m3, 10 m3 on all ships that have drone bays,and make ships more flexible on turrents/missle hard-points by making sure all ships have at least two more hardpoints, than high slots. for example, the typhoon has 4/4 gun/missles. make the typhoon, 5/5."
"theres some good minmatar ships out there i dont think they need to get boosted."
"making the minnie ships slightly lighter would help. in fact there ships look lighter than all the other races. and there tanks are weaker, and this combined with the sig radius adjustment would in general help there tank.i agree that the tempest and phoon are very underpowered in the dps category. the extra hard points would help.i am mainly a gallente pilot, and am cross training to amarr and caldari. i was going to skip minnie cause they are to under powered. the only minnie ships that look worth flying are the recon. and ewar frigates., and that is not worth it to me to train the minnie gun skills and the minnie cruiser skill just to fly those select ships.i do like there attitude and the maelstrom is great"
"you might want to take this lesson:"
"the price for 60 day gtc's has gotten way out of hand.there aren't enough price points for the average player, 700m is a lot of iskies. 360m for a 30 day plex is a lot of iskies as well.i suppose if everyone took up macro-mining 700m wouldn't be an issue, but most people are honest and will continue to grind away.it's real simple. eve is about choices, four races to choose from, craploads of ships, craptons of mods, but when it comes to gtc's we really only have one choice and that's the overpriced 700m isk 60 day gtc.at this point i expect to receive a lecture on economics and how demand should determine the price, blah, blah, yada, yada, ok got it thanks for the lesson.the one excuse i will accept because i think it would be an honest one is if ccp came and said that the reason there is only one choice is so they can make more money."
"half expecting naive people to show up with \"supply / demand !\" whines, but yes. eve is a combo of supply, demand and manipulation. especially that last bit.not too fussed about the price topic, but the flexibility of the old gtc's was far better then the 60d type.maybe with rmt now using plex to do their crap it's time to consider stopping resale of those items :panyhow, yes, supported. heck i would love to see the good old 50/100d ones too."
"the reason that there's only one gtc these days is genuinely to make it simpler. mind you, the reason why it's 17% more expensive per unit time than the old 30-day is to make money, but the unification was about simplification. that said, even when multiple types did exist, it didn't make much difference - the costs in isk were almost exactly proportional to their costs in cash. the solution here is to drop prices back to their old level, but that will never happen. between that, the fanfest offer, the fact that more people now know that they can pay for game time with isk, and the rl economic problems making people want to lower their leisure outlay when possible, prices are going to go up. there's some price reductions to be gained, by advertising the system to new players more effectively, but aside from that, yeah, prices will do their thing. supply and demand sucks sometimes"
"plex prices have little to do with supply demand herschel, but with pushing price and market trends through reselling :p volumes are relatively easy to track, and given enough isk or influx it is a very, very easy market to have fun with.i'm just looking at it from a different angle. with the removal of ghost training a bit of flexibility would not be a bad thing in timing account lapses. but something tells me ccp won't like that :p"
"one thing i have noticed is that the plex market is way more unstable than the gtc market of last year. say what you want about supply and demand, but considering the price of plexs keep rising drastically, it doesn't seem fair to just have 1 choice."
"+1 bring back the old system or something better. one price point is fine for the billionaires but for normal players it's killing us.besides what's wrong with having more than one option?side note: how do you guys get that little thumbs up icon under you"
"when i started on eve it was possible to start an account grind lvl4 missions with others and just about make 350-400mil (salvage was worth double and you got twice as much) this was the price of a 90 day gtc. now with the new gtc being 60 days and the cost being 700mil isk to purchase or 34.95 to buy both sides are being shafted. ccp wants they say to stop isk sellers well this is not the way to do it. there's no statistics i've been able to find i bet the isk sellers are raking it in.a common thing i often see in eve is \"risk vs reward\" keep that in mind ccp."
"oh ffs - let it go already. ghost training was a bug - ccp fixed something the application shouldn't have been doing in the first place. why the hell should you get to chew up cpu and database cycles you aren't helping to pay for?"
"check the checkbox that says \"check here if you want to give your support to the idea/discussion going on\" when posting on issues in the assembly hall forum section."
"imho toggle off or just leave corp is fine by me lol. but having the ability to a members skills is invaluable tool... one that is not supported in-game at all and as i hinted at trying to get 300 some folks to give their api key (short of give it or gtfo) its nearly impossible.then let us be gone with security all together and make it all 0.0 sure i get what you mean but its a blatant exploit and i am saying it should be fixed. apples oranges if there was a exploit where i could not be targeted and it was being used more and more by people... would you not be in favor of having it fixed?suicide gank is fine.. its the exploit there after i refer to... where \"accountability\" goes out the window."
"not supported. some amarr ships have large drone bays, so they can do any type of damage; the t2 khanid ships are missile boats, and so they can also pick their damage type."
"frankly, this. i won't join a corp that requires my api key, and i'll leave a corp that suddenly starts requiring it. my api key is, frankly, mine, and i should get to say what it gets used for. once i give it to you, i lose that control.as for concord/suicide ganking, the only thing that needs to be fixed there is the removal of insurance payouts if concord wtfpwns you. i mean, ffs, if i wreck my car in the commission of a crime, do you really think my insurance company is going to reimburse me for it??"
"currently, the only way to keep your hangar bays organized is by using containers. the problem with containers, is that you can't see what's inside them unless you're on location and you open them. the asset window becomes pretty much useless then because all you see are the containers themselves.please make it so it's possible to expand containers in the assets window and see what's inside. also make it possible to search for assets contained inside containers.if you look at the asset xml that you get using the eve api, you do see every items, even the ones contained in containers, so i know this is something that would be possible."
"supporting myself."
"ideas in this vein have been proposed before, but i don't think any have yet been raised by the csm. supported."
"yes please"
"wasn't aware of this... much supported.add to it the ability to see your ships fits and cargo contents too if not already.its your crap after all.. why not have that ability?"
"/bump"
"desperately needs fixing."
"gibbo as alot of people said well ive two seperate accounts with one character only on this one and one character on the other (reason training time) and 99% i only post on this one so your logic doesnt work. ccp please fix or is this an attempt at interface moderation"
"so tired of this.. just did it again, aamof."
"fail forum software is failing."
"supported"
"clicked reply to thread 5 times before i could make this post"
"in light of the recent ability now for a group of titans to dd a cap fleet as seen from a thanatos loss. i propose that when titans use their dd device, they are in seige mode for 10 minutes like a dread. getting better bonuses so it can tank better and finally makes titans be able to fight back after they push the 'i win' button in case they are tackled.with around 170 titans in game now, do we really want this to turn into titans-online?"
"no, we don't need another siege module. --isaac"
"pointless. guess what people would do if they had to stick on the field with such a glass cannon ship :pyep, they would bring say 6 titans, keep 12 more as a backup, and instead of the regular 40 carrier group you'd get to about 80 on alts with a bit of extra training over time, etcetera.i would much rather see us have the ability to use scripts on the doomsday device. picture it as a giant ball of energy, just waiting to be channeled into various shipboard systems for different purposes.turn it into a mega lazor. you know, vaporise a jammer, a dread, a pos, a planet.route its energy to the engines for superior speed.route the energy to a massive overload of tanking capabilities.pump the energy into ganglinks installed on the ship, for massively improved gang bonuses.or use it as a regular doomsday and die withint 30-40 seconds to a normal conventional gang.lots of options with scripts."
"not supported... the titan needs more love elsewhere... not a buff to its offensive systems."
"trying to rember why... oh yes, here we go:you could always check your cargohold, but then again, that might prove difficult when you are having small screen + intel channel + corp chat + fleet chat + overview + fleet broadcast + drones window + alliance chat + beer + cheerios + a biscuit + pron + bookmarks + watch list + a dog + buddies list + kitties + yo mama + sexy stuff + um... a screen to play on?well, that sh1z iz tight man. and i don't mean that in a good way. i mean: very tightly packed on a small screen./support for moar screen spaceedit: shizzle is censored?"
"if you want more screen space, buy a larger screen. that seems fairly logical."
"i have a 22\" widescreen monitor and i'm running at my max resolution (1680x1050). i still want this feature done. if you don't have any constructive criticism, please refrain from posting. comments like yours are pretty much pointless."
"many seem to feel that way - although most of the ones who do seem to be nos/neut users.i'm one of those too, as i've mentioned, and *i* feel that they're too much in some cases.that's my opinion, you're welcome to differ, but i've read nothing above that has really convinced me that i'm wrong aside from some counters which seem to be either hard to use or defeating of the main purpose of some ships. in other words, not quite convincing enough.i don't like \"i win\" buttons, even when i have them on my own console so i stand by the opinion."
"not supported. you can't have everything; after all, where would you put it?"
"i want a strong shield tank on my falcon! i didn't train all that caldari shield crap to sit in a paper ship!!1in other words: no, zero arguments aside from \"me want!\"."
"it struck me recently that drones are very rigid and inflexible in their variety- there are lights (5m3/mbit), mediums (10m3/mbit) and heavies/sentries (25m3/mbit). oh, and fighters, but that's a totally different kettle of fish. the thing is, why isn't there more variety of drones? ships with 25 m3 of drone bay space can take 5 lights, ships with 50 m3 can take 5 mediums or 2 flights of lights, ships with 75m3 can take 1 flight lights, 1 flight mediums (or 3 flight lights) and ships with 125m3 usually take a full flight of heavies/sentries.what i'd like to see are a few different types of drones. i'd suggest either a much faster, tougher medium drone which takes up 15m3/mbits (giving an alternative to ships with 75m3/mbits of space) or a more fragile, slightly weaker heavy drone which only takes up 20 (allowing ships with only 100m3/mbits like the maelstrom to take a full flight of 5). or possibly even a superlight drone which only uses 2m3/mbits and can fit a flight of 5 into the drone bay of a caracal (although i'm not sure what the trade-off would be there, possibly reduced operational range). we could possibly even try drones which have a size different from their bandwidth cost (say, a drone which takes 10mbits to control but only uses 5m3 of bay space). i just think that with all the variety in the game, limiting ourselves to only 3 sizes of drone is far too restrictive."
"there is already quite a difference in combat drones. the drones of each of the four races has different properties. e.g. the minmatar drones are the quickest. cardari sentry drones have the biggest range. and of course a different kind of damage and resistance."
"interesting, but i think that a lot of what you ask for could be better done by actually using the bandwidth system, instead of buffing the arbitrator/curse/pilgrim, nerfing the myrmidon/eos, and ignoring everything else."
"i'll support this. the only thing though is that a lighter form of a light drone is probably going to be impossible to hit so that needs to be worked out. other then that it sounds good."
"supported for great justice !"
"i would also enjoy the ability to create a contract to transfer ownership of an anchored secure can, and its contents. seems like a logical option."
"always thought that if they went through the trouble to make contracts that they should be scriptable/adaptable."
"this may happen, but it will mean eve 2.with a fresh server and no legacy issues.but i don't see it happening anytime soon (well maybe ccp's soon (tm)).p.s.calling someone a code monkey will hardly get you any support."
"yay! someone who gets it!"
"idea has been modified and stuck with another account security idea- see this thread and dont bother commenting here anymore"
"nm"
"great, another forum lobby thread.this is the assembly hall, not general discussion ..."
"\"a platform for players to bring topics to the attention of the council of stellar management\" maybe i am bringing it to the top by asking about it!"
"depends on the npcs you're fighting and what they drop. against angel cartel it's about 50% for l4 of the total of bounties, mission pay, loot and salvage. i'm not including lp or standings because those, while valuable, are hard to categorize or quickly turn into isk.in an l1 or l2 against the same npcs, the salvage is worth far far more than the combined other benefits. the one i did the calculation on was for an l1 that i helped a new person with. the salvage on that mission was worth fourteen times the total other tangible benefits. i haven't done the calculations for the l3s (i've not run one in quite some time) but my wife reports that she takes over a 50% hit when she does not or cannot salvage and i see no reason to doubt her (she's very detail oriented about this kind of stuff).myth? no. the numbers don't support it. perhaps against guristas that might be true - but not against angel cartel at all."
"i get where your comming from and i accept that as part of the game. but do we really want another new form of elitism a \"millionaires war\". a situation where im rich as hell out of game battle it out ingame. who else is this game is a \"millionaire\" ?"
"the learning curve in this game is so steep anyone that can manage to tell the difference between their ass and their face is pretty elite. thankfully in eve after about 3-6 months or so anybody can be about as elite as anybody else so long as they put a lot of effort into learning the game and provided they allocated their skills correctly. 3-6 months is about as much time as you need to fly one ship about as well as you will ever fly it, skillpoints-wise.i dunno why you posted this in the csm forums, what are we supposed to do about eve's elitism anyways~"
"mazzilliu i brought it up in here because as time goes on this will get worse. i remember when i started again i saw like all noobs all these 2003-6 players and thought i'll never catch up never even get close to the skills these players have. in time though i've met 2005 players with less skill points than me, though i do think thats not the general case. take an example its 2013 and i log on and create an account for the first time see all these players who on the face value are 10 years old characters. what will a noob think then?.its just something to keep in mind as the industry i work in used to be and still is somewhat elitist, and trying to get a foot in the door is still almost impossible. this has been a detriment overall as its difficult to find people who will stick around to learn the ropes as like eve, it has a huge learing curve and its also a harsh uncaring enviroment where you can loose your job on someones whim. i just see this as a looming issue that needs to be looked at even if its not addressed."
"you seem to be making the mistake that skillpoints = elite. this is not the case. just last night i beat a character in a 1v1 who has about 4 times the sp that i do. eve, more so than any other mmo out there, is about player development rather than in-game character development. if you bring the right ship and fittings for the job, then skillpoints are merely complimentary. if you specialize in one particular area properly, then the only advantage a higher sp character has is the ability to fly a wider variety of ships. having recons 5, hac 5, command ship 5, bs 5 and carrier 5 really isn't an advantage in a fight because you can still only fly one ship at a time, and if a 6 month old character brings the right setup to counter that ship, then it doesn't make a bit of difference."
"after i played this game about a year- whatever i wanted to do, besides flying caps, could pretty much be done and the only thing getting in the way was what i did or did not decide to do with myself. the only advantage vets have is more spread out skill training and more of it, but in most situations you can only use a certain # of mil sp at a time. any feelings of inferiority after 6 months to a year of playing are just because the player imagines they are inferior. probably because they are but that's a self fulfilling prophecy and not the fault of the game.what do you mean losing a job? you mean getting kicked out of your corp? so i guess newbies are the only ones vulnerable to getting kicked out by their ceo on a whim?"
"i think these two issues need merging. you can either eliminate #1 from the list and put it within #6 as a mention of a specific need, or during the meeting discuss #1 within the context of #6. whatever is least repetitive. i think the important thing though is to put an urgent emphasis on cases where faulty corp role design forces ceos to grant more permission then necessary. that is the real motivation behind issue #1 i put forward, not user friendliness."
"good point. i basically merged the issues into item 6, i removed your \"can set standings\" and moved your client overhaul issue to position #1.also added vuk's issue to the agenda."
"added armaggedon day 2.0 on wiki"
"wikifiedplease add* what's in the works for fw?** wiki:"
"depends how quick they can read it over. generally takes about a week and then it's posted in the minutes section under the csm menu on the left."
"seems apropriate to ask if each csm member has a ccp supplied email address i can contact them out of game on.edit: i'm actually looking to point something out to lark and dont want to crud up csm related forum areas doing it."
"we should, but ccp is slacking. you can mail lark tho on his private email adress larkonis@hotmale.com"
"that's our special one vuk...rs you can contact me at larkonistrassler@hotmail.co.uk in lieu of a designated ccp email for the moment."
"size first, font style 2nd, make it so. this is starting to be a game breaker for me."
"oh my why is not on the first page"
"i'm in agreement with this. nothing bothers me more, than some joker in a n00bship that's been playing a week and a half yoinking the loot off the guy in a t2 ship that i just killed - followed by him salvaging it. i will say, however, that the flagging should only be for the person(s) on the killmail - not the whole corp/alliance of the person(s) on the killmail. that'd be a little much, i think. and, of course, the original owner of the ship would also have the rights to shoot along with his corp - that shouldn't change."
"supported, would be extremely useful for manufacturing and trade, among other things."
"useful"
"very good idea yes support"
"yes please ccp, this would be a great one."
"bump"
"this would be a great idea"
"supported ofc"
"/supporteither this or make sentries do less damage to quick/small sig targets such as drones and frigates. its irritating when you just have to watch in a taranis as your gang beat up someone, maybe shoot once and then warp out."
"def"
"best idea ever!"
"stuff exploding"
"just bump."
"buuuuuuummmmmpppppp!!! also, fix the arazu please."
"oh for god's sake will you stop with this argument already? this is not freedom rights of the human race we're talking about, it's simple online account security! if ccp decides that account passwords have to be changed every 3 months and that passwords now have minimum requirements in length and complexity, then so be it. it's their system, it's their rules. if you don't want to get the nag, then change your password when you get it the first time, that's all. if they allow users to opt out of this hardening, then there's no point in doing it at all!if your bank was to tell you that you would have to change your online banking password every 3 months would you file a complaint? my bank did so recently, and it was their decision, i didn't have a choice. when i renewed my credit card, i got a new one with a chip and a nip on it. did i have a choice? no, because it was not optional. i don't see why eve online account passwords would should be different."
"you must lead a very sad life.... letting everyone tell you what to do and never getting any say in any matter.unlike most people i tend to do enjoy the little freedoms that are given to me.by the way... eve online is not a bank... nor is it real life... so comparing it to such a thing is a stupid example. its a video game.you people seem to get it in your thick skulls that the solution to handling security is to shove it down peoples throats.i help fix computers and install new computers everyday... security is one of my biggest concerns... and if there's one thing i learned... you do not force security on people... you enforce security... you tell them \"you should do this\" and \"this is why\".telling them like it is... well make them just flat ignore you and throw you away.forcing password changes is stupid.... because it will force the person in question to choose weaker passwords and not give a damn.and any good keylogger will defeat that process...if you cant figure that out... then i suggest you go read up on the subject before you flap your gums at me again.it's not my fault you can't understand rationality and discernment.yes its a good idea to have a strong password.changing that password accomplishes nothing but annoyance.passords still can be cracked...still can be predicted... stolen...hell the authenticator/encryption key that has been proposed at least makes sense....provided i don't have to be forced to spend even more money on it just to play a simple stupid little game (although simple is not the correct word for it) such as this.eve online is not my life people.... its a game... i'd like to keep it that way thank you very much."
"from the amount of forum posts you make and all the anger and ridiculous posturing it certainly looks like it's more than a game for you! you say you fix computers for a living, well, if we're gonna play appeal to authority, i'm a risk analyst for a large bank, and believe me, if we didn't enforce regular password changes and password strength checks we'd have hundreds, if not thousands of customers with 1 mil+ balances and stupid passwords like 123456 or their birth dates.eve may not be a bank, but perhaps more than any other mmo, eve assets can be considered quite valuable, specially considering they're usually the fruit of group, and not individual labor.people should pay for their own stupidity? to a certain point, yes, but people shouldn't pay for the stupidity of others. say your ceo is dumb and uses the same password for everything, and someone gets hold of it, logs in to his account, clears the corp wallet and steals everything in the corp hangars and poses. in the end the whole corp is paying for his stupidity, doesn't sound that fair, does it?making sure people don't use their first password would already reduce by 50% or more the amount of accounts compromised."
"a much nicer proposal as long as all of it is optional."
"trolling removed. ~weatherman"
"me wants tourist attraction"
"i did fix it for me:supported... anything..and i do mean anything that boosts the ego and e-peen stroking that kill mails cause is something i want boosted very badly"
"supported."
"awesome idea"
"that"
"good idea"
"signed"
"bump, we still want the csm to take this back to ccp..."
"since when? alt scouts are the life blood of dedicated empire pvp corps.during a war with any decent opponent you shouldnt be doing this anyways, when you are you take your life in your hands and will probably most often loose it (specially if just sitting there mining without scouts of your own.)the carebear tactic would be to not mission with anyone they dont know... oh wait thats common sense? this is an interesting idea and i think quite feasible (though imo it should really just trigger localized gate gun aggro/ sentries/ npc ships (that are already spawned) fire. the idea being that sovereign entities dislike people opening portals to anywhere in their space. i dont think you should have gcc period but a temporary aggro to localized area (ie station and not solar system/police) would be very appropriate if fired off on grid. however missions and roid fields etc are fair game imo.)this is a terrible idea and doesnt make sense mechanics or fluff wise.fixed"
"iirc regular cyno fields were restricted to low sec to keep capitals from smart bombing trade stations. i see no reason why covert cynos shouldn't be allowed for the moving of black ops\covert ops ships. well except for the fact that concord has all of empire space under a network of cyno jammers."
"which is why the experienced industrial characters do this process for their corps -- they know these things.sorting by meta level would be a tool to ease the process when you're working with hundreds of items after a large group op."
"over the last year, there's been a torrent of good ideas posted on the assembly hall, and the csm have done a good job of picking out the big, important ones and raising them to ccp. however, they haven't done nearly so well with the small, nagging issues, and from what i can tell of their minutes, it seems that it's simply because there isn't enough time to deal with both the big, flashy stuff and the small, useful stuff. so, i'd like to propose that the csm establish a process for dealing with issues that are worthy of their support, but not important enough to go through the full process of spending half an hour in iceland, half an hour in a csm meeting, and all the other behind-the-scenes stuff that is necessary for a full-sized issue. the details of this process would depend on what the csm wants and what ccp will allow(since there are rules on how topics have to be processed), but i expect it would work something like this:- new assembly hall thread is created, with [minor] tag, e.g., \"[minor] corp/alliance chat motd\". other than the tag, it is written exactly like a normal issue. - csm member raises the issue after 7 days, like a normal issue. - (option a) at the beginning of the csm meeting, a list of minor topics are raised, and sequentially voted on with no lengthy discussions, just \"hey guys, we want motd capability for the channels that don't have it\" \"sure, okay, whatever\". - (option b) the csm meeting thread contains a list of forum threads, with links. csm members go to the threads, vote on them, and the votes are collected into the meeting minutes. - in either case, when it comes time to submit the topics to ccp, they are presented as a list, for information only. ccp can respond if desired, but is not expected to. i believe that this would allow a much faster turnover of small issues, and would allow them to be raised by the csm and given the consideration that they deserve, without clogging up the process and blocking the big issues."
"i've got a thread \"pet peeve - skill injection\" that has been ignored and has more than enough support.is that a minor issue? i think its safe to say it is.i think these minor things need attention.get to work csm! :)/supported"
"definately.a shortlist of minor or quick recommendations for ccp to process and reply to on the next meeting would be brilliant.not just for csm, but for ccp as well, think of it like a little (free) think tank the way the test server was used years and years ago."
"i like this. not just because of principle and results, but also because it would be a great tool to keep the fires lit under a csm where a good bunch are only in it to get ccp's technology briefing so their groups can get ahead of the curve of changes with subtle coaching.it would work better however if ccp was required, or at least encouraged, to respond on the list. simple reactions would be fine, it is after all a list of minor things. yes, no, nice idea, bad idea type of reactions would be fine and not take a lot of time."
"definitely, there have been some good things brought up and i've never actually seen much of them mentioned after, regardless of their supportxz"
"first of all, i looked through the first 10 pages of posts and couldn't find this subject, which i find amazing. if this is not so, please provide links to an existing proposal, and/or to other ongoing discussions. i have found many folks suggesting that moon mining is broken here:"
"do you have any idea how tedious moon scanning is? it makes bashing undefended poses look interesting. i wouldn't wish the constant rescanning of multiple regions upon my worst enemies. alternate sources of moon mins, sure. maybe in extremis you could rearrange the reaction chains to de-emphasize dys/pro. but rescanning moons is ugly and bad."
"hehe, well it would be a way to get people back into 0.0 after a week the usual crowd of pos managers would burn out so they'd delegate to a legion of scanning guys running around. one way to get more targets in 0.0 that aside, while yes it is a tedious process and very time consuming, the static nature of the holy x64 tree is really not very fun, nor does it give a lot of room for flexibility."
"this.--isaac"
"big facepalm, you want to bypass the rules just because you like a proposal? no wait, you want to break the rules and speed this up because of a medal? that's the big emergency? jesus christ, gtfo out of the csm please.supporting this wonderful proposal despite shockingly bad behavior from erik finnegan."
"supported!"
"supported"
"supported"
"fully support"
"the time you need to skill for a eos should get you something useful.supported"
"what!? did you even understand what i said? it wouldn't create more strain on the database, it would remove some! please don't say stuff like that if you don't know what you're talking about. removing records from a database can only be a good thing for its performance. i also wouldn't expect the \"resurection\" requests to come up very often, as usually, if a character hasn't logged on in over a year, he probably won't come back.the archiving of old characters would only be done something like once a week or even once a month. the first time it's done would be the longest of course, but afterwards, only a few would be archived per batch. it's just typical archiving man, and it's very common."
"i agree with you fille, i'd consider you an on-line friend and the only reason we're no rl friends is distance (5000km). fille is not the only person i've made friends with in this game and tbh if they came to australia i'd be more than willing to let them stay in one of my houses (perth, sydney, brisbane). yes i am very trusting but i only give people enough rope to hang themselves, not many people ever abuse my trust due to this. and i even have several players email addresses because they told me they were leaving eve. i presume that alot of players go thru the same thing everytime your subscription is due. i debate in my mind whether to carry on for another 6months on the account thats due. if i just dissapeared one day no one can tell what the hells going on."
"so maybe the solution is moving them to an in-active account statis and should the player wish to start again a quick email to ccp with account & log-in details to re-active this account. this is no real different than existing system except that non active accounts will be known if you search for them.and dont say but ive lost that information (login details) cause if you have you couldnt login anyway on any proposed system."
"should have been more specific. you now want ccp to separate their database into two sections. (or maybe even two different servers). you realize you just doubled ccp's workload. doesn't matter if its small or huge. you double it with your idea. and quite frankly, ccp doesn't need more work than it already has. its trying to reduce this. also, what if that character comes back? now they have to wait for ccp to unarchive them? great, that just increased their workload there. whereas right now, there is very little, if any, work that needs to be done to \"unfreeze\" a character. its not going to happen. right now, how things are, is just fine and balanced. your idea just adds more work for your convenience. which in all honesty, is not saving you much \"time\". \"i also wouldn't expect the \"resurection\" requests to come up very often, as usually, if a character hasn't logged on in over a year, he probably won't come back.\"bs. do you honestly know how this goes? only ccp does. i quit wow for a year and then returned. (quit again) i'm pretty sure if little old me does it in that game, that there is a lot more requests than you think in this game. i even know ppl that have returned after a year they were gone in this game. why should they be left out? get my point? its a lot of work, for a lot of nothing for really no reason at all except for a minor complaint/issue. ccp has a lot more things that take much higher priority than this. --isaac"
"yes ive done that too left and come back this time just over a year ago oh yea and i started again lost and forgotten the password login details of the old 2 accounts. see ive plently of old accounts i cant even remember the account details on so your points invalid."
"umm....what? so because you can't remember your password my point is invalid? that makes....sense......--isaac"
"i give up you have no idea what im talking about issac so go away and play in your sand box will all your no longer existant e-friends"
"have you ever administered a database system? cause i have, and still do as part of my job as a php/mysql programmer, automation script programmer and database administrator. i do know what i'm talking about. all of this proccess would be automated. do you you really think that the ccp dba's would manually run queries to move characters back and forth between the archive and the live db? do you even know how database administration works? they would have scripts and automated systems to do the work for them, so this wouldn't add to any of their workload except for the development of it the first time. we're talking here about less than 1 month of work depending on the amount of resources they can allocate to this, but that month would be worth it afterwards. i know this for a fact.to be honest i don't care about knowing if a character is active or not, i just thought cleaning up the live database would help its performance and that archiving the old characters would be a good idea and help the admins manage updates and patches better.think of it this way. if you have to modify a database table that has over 4 million records (for example, adding a new field or something like that), the database engine will need to update every single record with that modification. 4 million records would take a huge amount of time to update. same goes with backups and optimization (compacting and indexing). now let's say that in those 4 millioon records, 2.5 millions would be inactive characters that could be moved to the archive database. you would just cut the time it takes to update and maintain the db by half, which could be significant!so please, if you don't know what you're talking about, refrain from commenting as if you did know."
"i heard what you guys are saying, its what i'm saying that your not listening to. a: your creating a need to put ccp's resources into an idea that quite frankly, is a waste of time. if it wasn't, why don't more mmo companies do it? b: your entire idea is based on the fact that your not sure if they are active or not. here is an easy solution: send them an evemail and ask if they are active. keep them in your address book for a while and if they finally respond, then you know they are active. wow, shocking, i just figured out an already-in-the-game mechanic that requires no resources to implement. also, don't you think ccp would have implemented this idea if they thought it would reduce their databases' load? your idea is just to make your life easier. not ccp's. --isaacp.s. thanks for the personal attack. its always appreciated."
"oh so you built the database that ccp currently employs?wow... i guess you know everything!"
"please think before you post. a simple script can be programed to run at account reactivation to pull the characters from the archive server to the main server. if a player has been dormant for over a year they probably have a lot of patching to do or a full client download so what little time it would take to copy and validate the account would be covered by that. if not simply have the resubscribe page say \"your account is being moved out of archive. this may take up to x min / hrs\" the main servers would be cleared up some and an archive server would be alot easier to maintain since the data doesn't get changed much. also i agree that ccp should look through the database for trial accounts that were never activated after their 2 weeks was up. these accounts should be deleated."
"this would be to good to be true.supported"
"have you even read what i wrote? or the op proposal?the solution proposed by the op will not cure the problem he see. removing level 4 mission from high sec if you aren't in a corp will not cure macro missioning as it is done in low sec, using the 4 +20 agents there.allowing hulk in high sec only to corp member will not cure anything. macros users can form thousand of 3 man corps and switch as needed to avoid wardecs. total cost 7 hours of training to get 1 alt to social 3, corp management 2 and ethnic relation 1. if you pick people from a single race you can go as low as 13 minutes for a 10 man corp.and 1 million to found the corp. i point you in the direction of this phrase from the op:there are several blatant errors:1) macro mining is done in 0.0 too, with the complicity of some of the space owning alliances;2) almost all macro missioning is done in low sec, where they farm 4 +20 agents for courier missions. so i repeat, the op proposal is based on ignorance and will have no effect on macros. if you want a solution to macro mission running in low sec this is way better: solution to macro hauling.it has some linit but it is worth discussing."
"pretty good when the op gets trashed by csm people eh?this thread is toast.scrap the idea... go back and learn to play the game and then we'll talk./thread"
"not supported."
"i'd like to have different icons for similar but different modules; some examples:- ab and mwd.- cynosural field generator and all the gang link modules (having different icons for information warfare links, armored warfare link etc, would be nice).(this one is the most important, imo).then a rework for sized modules could be done aswell:- small / medium / large smartbomb- small / medium / large nosferaty and energy neutralizers- small / medium / large armor repairer- small / medium / large / x-large shield boosters"
"i can dig it. it won't always work as well as i'd hope, i expect, but as a general goal, sure."
"supported very much. so annoying seeing a kill that you push through a gate into your fleets hands and not registering on the km. not supported if it hurts lag."
"putting the killmail into the combat log of everyone on the killmail will mean more database transactions, meaning more lag. if this increase is noticeable then instantly sending out the killmail to everyone would be a bad idea.so this syncing of killmails will probably have to wait until the following downtime.this idea has been posted before. be sure to read ccp chronotis's first post in that thread."
"forcing aa is nice however it tends to crash my graphics driver followed almost immediately by my computer about every 10th log in. i have 2 ati radion 4870x2 cards, paid good money for them. ccp please let me use them. (also if you don't mind add some support to make the game more stable on crossfire/sli)(i dont need isk either give it to this \"poor noob\" everyone is talking about)"
"i am of two minds here (note im supporting this thread though).i can see the appeal of arenas to people who want instant gratification and/or plain out suck/ dont have resources/friends to pvp in low or null sec space. i wouldnt mind a tournament setting but i also think of what happened with wow. i played since beta of that game and was what you would call a hardcore pvper as well as raiding 24/7. wow back then was a great game because the time you put in equaled the rewards you got out. when the burning crusade expansion came out (just before it in fact) blizzard basically made it so that the hardcore player with all his shiny epic loot could now be equalled by some ******* that played for 10% of the time and just wanted to be lazy. take this change into eve where the focus is supposedly as hardcore as it gets and it fails. im a pirate because i like non consensual pvp/ pvp in general. there are others who dont like (or just are plain dumb and dont have the skills) pvp and that is fine. my main deal is i believe an introduction of no risk pvp with high rewards would cut out the hardcore pvpers with low sec rating and give no additional incentive to go down the chain towards so called end game content(and would especially hurt lowsec even more than it already is (and it needs help badly).id accept arenas if there were real losses and better yet if you could actually have arenas in station or station like areas that corporations and or alliances could either build conquer or rent. you could then use it as a market tool for both the controllers and the fighters/spectators. this wouldnt effect pvp badly imo if you could only place them in lowsec/ 0.0 for the decent ones and maybe have a tiny few intro types (say frigates or t1 cruisers) in hisec to show newbies what they miss out on if they dont go down into the dark ugly places of eve. beyond the above i think they are a horrible idea and should be nixed."
"i currently run 2 accounts and my main is nearing 20m sp and i refuse to go into low sec, i have personally had 3-4 weeks in low sec alliance that fell apart. if i could go to low sec or a battlegrounds and learn to pvp with out losing billions of isk in the process i might be interested in it. otherwise this is an alt tab game for me; i can run level 4 and mine in high sec to kill some time. my experience in 0.0 for 2-4 weeks was dead silence or gank fest.i agree there should be no reward for battleground or arena pvp. the only reward should be exp using your skills in a pvp environment."
"god no"
"/signeddon't want any more reasons for the very few pvpers left in lowsec to jumpship to highsec."
"i agree. there's already an easy 'no wardec required/no sec problem' free-for-all pvp option for high sec based players. it's called facwar."
"lol epic, specially from a united toon to lark thats the best start to a proposal ive seen yet. (and also a needed change) supporting a bleh (never thought id see the day :)"
"an easy thing to fix that's been overlooked for so long."
"dont forget :lock targetremove from overview"
"basic idea: give a tactical purpose to wrecks and intelligence gathering by changing the way killmails workstandard killmails changed to provide only ship type killed and what system it happened in. in order to gather more information/intel someone must scan the wreck. a scan of the wreck can be done by any pilot in any ship (even a shuttle), with no additional skills required using onboard ship sensors. this scan would reveal pilot name, corp, alliance, and damage taken. pilots who choose to invest training time in the \"wreck analysis / battle foresnics\" skill (not sure what to call it) would have the time/skill based chance to get the additional details of exact fittings, cargo destroyed, etc. with training of this skill a pilot could gather additional intelligence from the wreck by taking the time to scan for insignias/markings, data in destroyed computer logs, parts identification (to determine the fit), molecular makeup of wrecked parts and debri clouds (ammo types, cargo, etc). basically make it work like salvaging except you're \"datamining\" the wreck. also make it time and percent based like salvaging so that the higher the skills the faster and more complete data you obtain. this would put a new spin on post-explosion combat. allies could defend or even destroy (at the cost of surviving modules and salvage) friendly wrecks to keep intel out of enemy hands. fleet's pursuing fleeing enemies after a battle would have to make decisions about slowing down to gather killmail intel or risk losing the intel to catch the survivors before they get too far. dedicated salvage ships could have another purpose in a fleet - gathering all that killmail intel."
"intriguing... this would not only give a much needed nerf to kill mails (as i despise the damned things giving away too much information) but it would add a unique twist to the salvage profession... if you could do this on rats... you would learn a lot about them as well... would make for improved data mining on the missions and such.supported for creative twist...and nerfing kill mails."
"intriguing, but i don't think it's wise. people like killmails, and i'm wary about removing popular things for the sake of doing interesting things."
"don't you mean people like stroking e-peens?:)just teasing yah hersch...."
"did a kill mail murder your dog or something? you seem to be genuinely obsessed with the things.back on topic.. no. that's a pointless mechanic, generating clicks and going a long way towards hiding stupidity. comedy fits deserve to be ridiculed and publicized tbh.also go read the qen to see how many ships pop every day. now.. you wouldn't really *have* to scan them all but hey, even 1/3 of a huge number is still a huge number."
"in the light of all the \"omg remove local i need my cheap fix without effort or actually thinking about eve\" threads .. that would kinda remove one of the last methods to find out what is coming at you.right now the first killmail posted shows what you are up against. both with and without local.remove that, and without local it just gets a turkeyshoot. don't get me wrong, all for that, but it really strikes me as upsetting balances."
"----------for now i'm calling quits on this topic until i am able to do proper research into the matter and come up with something to use later; maybe then the care bears that roam this sub-forum (who have seemingly no knowledge in pvp) will have allot le"
"edited original postsorry for being rather rude below i did not mean what i said to sound so radical"
"the only problem with ecm drones is that td, tp, sd, and web drones aren't equally usable. at present, you can quite reasonably make a choice between damage and ecm drones - which one you want depends on skills, ship fit, and all that other fun stuff. that is a good thing. the bad thing is that only one of the five varieties of ew drone merits that sort of consideration. i doubt even carrier pilots bother with the other four. ecm are fine, buff the rest."
"do you actually play eve ?as it stands; yes the other drones are stupidly underpowered in comparison but if you actually fight these often you are sure to realise they are overpowered and as bad as falcons were(are)xz"
"the fact that you asked hersh that leads me to believe that you're the one who hasn't been playing long. you definately haven't been reading the forums much."
"do you actually know what the hell your talking about?seriously... ive started messing with the drones you are so pointedly demanding the death of... they are great.no they are not that strong... but they aren't meant to be that strong.i wouldn't use them in pvp mind you... but they are rather nice to have in pve. they need to be a little stronger... but then my skills are just starting.don't like ecm drones? use combat and leave the rest alone... its not going to kill you to ignore them."
"wow, just once i'd like people to quit replying \"do you actually play eve\". good grief. ecm drones are fine. in fact, all the other electronic drones need buff. --isaac"
"yeah, they're good, but that same rack of vespa ec-600 that jams a battleship 30% of the time could be a rack of hammerhead ii doing 200 dps, or 300 on a drone ship. that's a hell of a lot of dps to be giving up, for a far-from-certain jam chance. in other words, the player needs to make a choice between two powerful options for what to do with their drones. seems fine to me."
"i do prefer damage drones over ecm for the single reason i've never been in the right situation generally for ecm drones to be effective to mebut everytime i've come up against them i've been near perma jammed and half the time the target gets away (no i'm not complaining that my targets are getting away i'm just expressing my point) i've actually been in eccm fitted battleships and sat jammed for a long time so long infact it cost me the fight now perhaps i've been on the bad end of the percentages but from what i've seen they're nothing short of broken xz"
"i'm not arguing that the other ew drones need a buff but the ecm drones certainly need a nerfperhaps my views are a little too extream since i think ecm is the worst mechanic in this game but it still seems they're op xz"
"skills don't effect ecm drones rather hard to ignor when you're jammed and getting shot at don't you think xz"
"sub bs minmatar ships perform very well and i don't think they need a buff. the issue is minmatar bs's and it is most obvious with the tempest - the typhoon works fine it is just incredibly sp intensive. the problem is large projectiles.i'm no expert in artillary usage but large ac's simply don't do enough damage. the tempest is a dual damage bonus ships which does mediocre damage and has a poor tank. there is nothing fundamentally wrong with a tempests bonus's and slot layout. sure it concedes some gank/tank for an extra mid slot but i think there is a place for this. the problem is two damage bonus's and yet the damage still sucks. a mega does excellent damage and it has got a tracking bonus.large ac's need a significant increase in damage - over 10% on 800mm ac's scaling down to the dual 425's. to make the tempest versitile slot layout less of hit in fighting effectiveness an increase in drone bay, not bandwidth, would be nice. makeing it slightly faster, lighter, and with higher scan strenght would add to the tempests pirate bs flavor without changing its' power significantly. right now the tempest is a long way behind on the power curve it needs a significant boost. the typhoon on the other uses torps and drones for the bulk of its' damage making it far more effective right now."
"some buffs might be needed(in any large group of ships, there's always one in need of a buff), but this is the wrong approach. not supported."
"i have some issues with minmatar tech... but this thread... dare i say the op... just reeks of total lack of skill and knowledge on minamtar ships.seriously... i doubt you even have a firm grasp of the race.no offense bub... minmatar need some loving... but not your way....not supported."
"op is on the money.prices are to high for the average player."
"ok a few things: 1. as much as you wish to ignore the whole \"supply v demand arguement\" (which means you dont wish to hear reason it is a very valid point. if you dont want to/ cant pay those prices then pay in rl money (ps with exchange rates the way they are these days you can hunt for foreign gtc sites if you live in eu areas so as to avoid vat etc.)2. i loved having it split up back in the old days, i used to use different ones for each account. i think it was great and should be brought back but probably wont because ccp is a corporation and therefore hungry for irl iskies.3. it is not hard to make large returns but it does take a lot of work. most of us that have isk didnt have that kind of isk for a while. if you are struggling for isk, start pouring your hard missioned (or stolen) iskies into trading. just like computers, finances is g.i.g.o (garbage in garbage out) what you put in you will eventually get out."
"1. i'm not ignoring anything at least that's not how i wanted it to sound. this isn't the first time i've brought this up, but it is the first time in this forum. i've had a number of economic lessons in some previous threads and everything you've stated i've heard before.2. i really don't understand why a player would be opposed to lower prices and more choices, you even pointed out how you liked the old system. i can only assume you are benefitting from the current system either as a seller or ccp empoyee.3. people always assume that because i want more choices and lower prices that i do not have the means to pay for a 700m isk gtc. that's a valid assumptiom and would apply to most people but not in my case.4. i don't have a problem \"working\" for iskies to play the game. but i don't want to spend all my game time grinding isk. if you are an industrial type or simply like to do missions then i'm sure making iskies isn't to big of an issue. but if you want to pvp then making isk might be an issue. to ccp or anyone else who can explain it:1. why the change from 30/60/90 to the current system?2. what's wrong with more choices? i really want to see the 90 day cards make a return.as i said before we have a ton of choices in eve why not have three simple choices when it comes to gtcs?"
"one organisation of people ie: isk sellers could easily regulate the plexs and buyout cheaper ones and stick them back up for their own price."
"i can't say i disagree with the op. just a few months ago, you could easily get a 60d gtc for roughly 550-600m each. which, arguably, isn't very cheap still.. but it's certainly not in the 700-800m range that it is now. personally, i pay for the game straight up, as it's cheaper that way in my opinion, and i can focus on using the meager amounts of isk that i make in game to pay for my ships and modules that i use in pvp.however, i also like the idea of the 30/60/90 cards coming back - it was nice to decide \"hey, i can afford to spend 150m on a 30d card and not worry about the 15 bucks this month.\" either way, it would be nice to find an actual reason for the change to the form of gtc's we have now. and, perhaps, the isk farmers/buyers/sellers to stop hiking the prices on them.."
"you seem to all be forgetting the most basic conceptisk is free and unlimitedreal money is not.im surprised 30 days plexs are not in the 1b to 1.5b range myself giving how easy it is to make a b or 5 in a hour in jita spamming wts shuttle 1m"
"i want to support this but in truth i can't see why they would intervene in combination with what herth said the post above me has a very good point i don't mind paying whatever prices comes up for a gtc sure i whine about it every time it comes up but paying 3.2 bill every 2 months (current price i'm paying) is simply too easy people have far too much isk and the more people realise how easy it is to make the more people are going to start paying with isk and the more demand will rise and so will the prices the introduction of plex certainly didn't help either as for bringing back the old gtc's well i can't see it making much of a difference tbh other than people having to make less of a concious effort when they think to sell a 30 day gtc over a 60xz"
"i also would like to post in this thread about how i agree with the op. i don't actually have any reasoning for that though, i'm only supporting because of my ingame political affiliation.i think it's actually really hilarious that people are so wounded that they want to ban an entire alliance from posting in the political section of the game. requesting posting rights? only a couple of chosen reps from a corp/alliance/org? banning my chill alliance mates because i'm a terrible poster? what, are you people ****ing ******ed? there have been 0 good and logical ideas for how to fix this \"problem\". is that because people are simply driven by their personal fair play rules, and political affiliation, or maybe it's because there isn't a problem. maybe we need a political forum that has a lot of bluster, bull****, and people flicking their fingers in each others' faces...regardless of how any older players choose to selective remember the \"good olde days\". caod has always sucked since i've been playing, now it's just full of **** from a different direction, and involving more players. nothin' wrong with that."
"its constructive comments like this that prove my point, so ill re-iterate for you sir,caod is for 'political conflicts to battle reports, news, and corporation press releases  this is the in-character political center for all things corporate.'it isnt for evry member of a alliance, corp or entity to continually spam, and no caod has not always been like it has lately, and 'yes' its had its moments but not continual spam like it has been over the last year,its obvious a high no' of players cannot post responsibly and if they represent their alliance or corp then surely the alliance or corp should shoulder some control or responsibilty for that?im not suggesting for one moment alliances should be banned permanently from posting (only for continual rule breaking and after many warnings and that ban should only ever be temporary)im just suggesting that its obvious that individuals all like to be heard and cannot refrain from personnal attacks or trolling so why not shoulder that responsibility on the alliance or corperate leaders?debate has always been good but what ive witnessed recently caod has turned into a quagmire of absolute childish behaviour you dont see soldiers on the front line freely speaking their mind on the main news you see politicians using their political skills to out manouver their opponents ectif people want to swear and curse and act in the ways ive seen they can keep their typing to their own forums,something has to be done with caod, ccp knows it after many discussions with them at fanfest over the years, many players know it and prefer to see a more easily readable caod without the constant pages of drivel, so why cant this be brought up for discussion?oh and btw im not politically affiliated with anyone ive been in the past in battles with the old bob, i have flown with the old north and even flown with the goons, all that is behind me as ive joined a corp of old friends just doing what we enjoy doing but i still like to keep up to date with the political machinations of 0.0 and alliances without having to trawl through page upon page of vitriol posting"
"im all for anything that makes caod worth reading again"
"thinly veiled raging in the first line? this oughta be a fun read. by the way, i can practically hear your teeth grinding from here. i hope you don't damage them :(caod already gets news/aar/press releases on a regular basis. we all know what it's for. it serves those purposes just fine. what you're missing is the fact that it is, and always has, also been for sabre rattling. having one little subforum that can be the catalyst for all out war is nothing but good for the game. i have personally been in operations where a misspoken post on the forum has been the cause of a motheship's death. the forum and game influencing each other as parts of the same universe, just like they're supposed to. i'm sure people could pipe in with countless examples like the above, and you want to limit my ability to post on caod just because i'm not an official diplomat/director/fc/elected public relations officer? i ask again: are you ****in ******ed?what, so all these so-called **** posters can just use alts and alt corps in order to get around some dumbass alliance posting ban? kinda seems like throwing water on an oil fire, to me. remember that forum personal attacks and trolling started a 3 year long war in eve involving basically everyone. again, we need people ****ing in each other's cereal unless we want the game to wither and die.i don't understand it. other than the volume of posts (obviously caused by a larger player base), caod has always been a home of page upon page of vitriol posting. regardless of people's need for flower power love thy neighbour horse ****, caod has always been about propoganda and bull****. nobody is forcing you to read the bull****. it isn't hard to find the content that you're looking for."
"what point? the rest of your post is horrible since it's obvious that i'm not just thinking of myself, nor am i showing a distinct inability to debate and discuss. at least not among this group, anyway. the last line is just confusing, and makes me think you're floundering. either you want to chat about this, or you don't. stop flailing and wasting everyone's time here."
"proposal: add 100m<U+FFFD> to giant secure container so they get 4000m<U+FFFD> total.carrying at least 1 capital module would be nice, wouldn't it?"
"hijust like we can right click > view market details we should be able to right click > view contract details instead of manually typing half or most of the item; when you have so many things to put on contracts it gets very annoying to keep typing.thanks."
"yup, it'd be great."
"indeed."
"fair enough but define \"large\" and \"some\". cuz imho you just described every race there..which zeros out your point somewhat. besides drones are supplemental damage, that is they do damage on top ones main weapon type..usually dictated by ship type/bonuses.which leads into khandid ships... amarr pilot spends his start of career training gunnery skill so s/he can use lasers then has to switch over to missiles is your answer? you do realize pretty much all the races have a t2 missile boats as well. does this not zero a bit as well?agreed our corp wouldn't want a person that wouldn't give up the limited api. its the great equalizer.. we require it you don't want to give you can leave or just not join... no hard feelings. you could always change your api (say if you leave such a corp) and/or if toggle option was avail turn it off cute but off the topic a tad.. we talking about an exploit not so much insurance payouts. sorry don't mean to be a troll here... just trying to have a convo on this. i initially thought this was the place for \"players to bring topics to the attention of the council of stellar management.\"..but i missed the index did i mention i was rushed for time?!?"
"actually, nova, i don't think you're trolling at all, so no worries there. this is, indeed, the place such topics for discussion. we're even allowed to disagree."
"this so not supported"
"im split on this 1) god id hate to see the myriad of diff colours sported in apace by pilots lol 2) id love to say 'yes' just to see eris in her bright dayglow pink ship :)"
"hrmm, so do i still get the rust color on my minmatard ships?"
"no ty. amarr are yellow cus they are made of gold. minmatar are black/red cus they are barbarians. so on. if you wont to try the colour painting stuff. buy sims city."
"the csm has brought the issue before ccp (in csm1, iirc). their basic answer was it would cause a tremendous strain on the db server, so no luck.while i would like this feature implemented, i'm content playing in a game without it, as the database is already stressed enough (so much so, that they created an exploitable code option to reduce the number of db calls - aka the pos exploit). as i said, i like the issue, but it's not gonna happen."
"i would love to have the technical explaination of this excuse. how can this possibly cause more strain on the database than what is already being done? you can already leave all your items on the hangar floor (outside of containers) and they will all show in the assets window. if you look at the eve api assets xml (/char/assetlist.xml.aspx), you see a list of all your assets, including the ones that are inside containers. why is it not possible to also show this in the assets window?someone please explain that to me..."
"even though i dont go 0.0 this sounds like a great idea. i like the idea of isk based as that removes some of the logistical nightmares of moving ozone."
"i think i've got a solution to yes you're probably right mazziliu the perception from new players of elitism. but first i'll respond to the whim statement, i work in international entertainment industry and getting fired, told to go take a walk, on \"whim\" can come from the artists, promoters, managers, senior crew. i've seen it done often i'm even guilty of it myself, wake up on the wrong side of bed, someone riles you, they get their marching orders. this it seems to happen in eve too.solution is like certificates that be can make non public, do the same thing for character creation date and corps joined. if you wish to apply to a corp you can make that information available then. in this way no one will know who's how old and possibly more people will pvp from this change."
"pardon me, mr. finnegan, sir, for revealing my ignorance here but...it seems to me that you might wish to vote (onto the agenda) the issue you already have on the csm open issues page of the csm wiki.the cool dude just below me here, might even be in agreement since he contributed with you to the wiki entry for that item.-back to my cave..."
"i'm not sure what the rush is to get this on the agenda for this week considering the earliest it would be discussed with ccp is in september.."
"i agree with oz. since there's no difference between putting it on agenda #3 and agenda #4, i see no reason to overrule the csm rules."
"true. oz, dierdra, i am correcting my request : i would like to inform the csm that i will send that issue to ccp personally. it is imho nothing which needs a slot in the iceland meeting in a few months, neither should a correction wait till then. instead, ccp should act on short notice, or not."
"i would like for this issue to be brought up with ccp at the next meeting. i think it would be a great idea if the directors of corps could set prices for modules out of corp restricted. say there is a new tab in corp restricted that is effectively a store. directors could set the prices on the items they want to be able to be bought in restricted. once the item prices are set, every time something is put into the special tab in restricted it is automatically priced and can be bought by corp members.this doesn't seem like a big project and a very nice feature that would free up directors time so they would not have to constantly be bothered by restricted sales requests.anyway, any thoughts on this would be appreciated (especially the thoughts that agree with me and think this would be an excellent feature to add to the game).-gv"
"you mean like corp contracts?"
"what happened to mitnal and why are the moderators turning c&p into a big boring pile o pablum? this is insane, no comments no discussion just locks and deletes. the current chat log posting and killmail posting procedure is nonsense. give us a crumb here man. this is destroying everything enjoyable about c&p. does anybody on the council know why? every post about this is locked as this one will soon be, i am sure."
"complaints about ccp should be handled via the petition system and not discussed on the forums. this thread is now locked."
"so very needed; was a terrible change from shock and awe to limp nuts syndrom"
"well i dont know the old visuals. but i can tell you i was damn exited to jump the 1st time... it sucked and was over bevore i could blink my eyes twice.what the hell i wana see something more intence and i sighn this"
"loved the old effect, new one is very :meh:"
"i can't remember if i supported this already since their have been so many but regardless i think this point needs to be set upon a broader range of effects allot of things were implemented without asking us first i think this was a big mistake (and mostly down to the rush of getting apoc out) and now i have to put up with card busting blaster effects (yes i have a crap g-card) stupid eccm effects and the lot cyno effects were especially dissapointing so i fully support this topic and hope ccp don't brush it under the carpet like alot of other things"
"signed"
"i'll look into this and if it hasn't been raised already i'll bring it up at the next meeting."
"supported, i've heard plenty of people in game complaining about it"
"/me signs this.just curious how you guys put a thumbs up under your char.d..."
"up"
"a lot of people use medium, small, and giant secure containers to carry a tiny bit of extra stuff in space. its a lot of hassle and extra clicking and using them incurs restrictions such as the inability to see its contents within the assets window, and all those other quirks you encounter with cansgiant secure containers are used very commonly by haulers and any ship with cargo above 3k capacity. their inside is 30% larger then the space they take.medium and small cans are used by subcapital non-hauler non-barge ships and are 20% bigger on the inside then the outsidehow about, for every ship with cargo space lower then 3k let's increase it by 20%, and for every ship with cargo space larger then 3k let's increase it by 30%. don't alter ships that cant use cans anyways. then lets make cans the same size inside as they are outside. so now people can use cans as proper dividers for items and other legitimate uses rather then being forced to use them as some sort of semi-exploitive, inconvenient cargo expanders. practical game play is unaffected. special restrictions on what you can put in cans and what you can put cans into, etcetera, might even be removable since the exploit potential is gone. maybe we can use giant secure cans in freighters then?"
"hmmm i think i agree with my idea"
"my first reaction was distaste, but on reflection, i'm not sure why. yeah, this is a mechanical change that affects some things - hauling large objects, most notably. but the change isn't all that big, and it'd make the whole container process far easier. i'd still prefer to see containers work in a sane fashion, but this doesn't really interfere with that. it's a really broad change to deal with a fairly small problem, but in practice it's not actually a very big change. it feels like a bigger hammer than is needed, but it's a pretty practical solution, all told. i can't help but feel i'm missing something, but for now, i think i have to support this."
"so, buff the cargo on all ships equal to the buff they would get equal to the largest size they could carry? then remove the container's 20-30% space increase buff they get. then allow cargo cans to be used by all ships as they don't have the possibility to nest for infinite space anymore./supported"
"anything that gives some love to the maelstroms pathetic cargo hold <3xz"
"oh dear god yes"
"i agree hate carting half full containers from corpies so not to mix their stuff up in my fenrir and nomad."
"it would be really nice however there should be a good look across the board which ships would receive these bonuses and which not such as only industrials or all ships.i suggest if this is implemented freighters will not get the bonus. this would then allow jump freighters/freighters to also carry secure containers instead of only the freight containers, putting some logistical nightmares to bed."
"sounds reasonable, but it might require a lot of work on ccp's part (altering the very structure of how cargo works). i do completely agree with the bit about freighters/jfs though, as not being able to put cargo cans other than the general freight cans is a headache.ccp might have some nightmares about it's implementation, but i support this measure."
"you can make nonsensical ****post all you want but this proposal is getting presented at the csm meeting 4 anyways. every new dumb post you make itt i emptypost with a new random alt of mine to add one point of support to the thread.i guess there is nothing new really to add to this eve account security issue itself anymore, all the points seem to have been made. but i am always on the lookout for other good ideas that can improve the security of players without making life terribly hard for them."
"how about a internal authenticator?random client instillation id's could be created during instillation, and link that with the log-in info. log-in info would then be useless without the client id. the client id would be verified along with the account name and/or password. your user name and password would not work if it was not accompanied by the correct client id. if you needed to reinstall the client you could backup the file that the client id is stored, or log in to the website and request the client data be reset and a e-mail response would be required for verification. it would then accept the next connection and use the new client id. simply copying the file that the client id is stored to another computer would duplicate the client id to that computer.those that didn't chose to link the user account with that client id, your account would not linked to any client instillation id and ccp would not actively track client id's used by your account.another benefit is ccp could block client instillation id's from the log-in server for isk spammers that have been banned. after they have chosen to ban a spammer ccp would kick the person and receive the client id the next time the account logged in and then block the client id, disconnect, and ban the account. requiring the isk spammer not only to create a new account, a 2-3 minute affair, but also reinstall eve (takes much more time).once implemented it would be turned off by default. it could have different levels of security. username, password, and id match, or just username and id match not requiring password for the account to log-in. i think its better then a third party option and not at all difficult for ccp to add, as their is no game play aspects to adding this to the system."
"drake, whether you and other paranoid people out there like it or not, if ccp decides to enfore password resets, you won't have a choice. flaming and insulting others that disagree with you is helping nothing either and this forum is not the place for it.i know from profesionnal experience that users are stupid and careless when choosing passwords. forcing strong expiring passwords on them is the only way to really have a secure environment. a strong password will be almost impossible to guess and crack, so when you say they can always be guessed and cracked, you're talking out of your butt.the authenticator is just another layer of security that goes on top of that for the ones who would like it.as someone else pointed out, it will be presented to ccp in the next csm anyway, so nothing you do now will change that.eve online may not be a bank, but the accounts of users are still worth real money, and it needs to be properly secured."
"forcing banned isk spammers to reinstall eve is an interesting proposition- but you can install an instance of eve while running another, i think its too easily worked around.as for client install ids tied to accounts for legit users- what if their computer crashes? what will they use to regain the ability to access the account? the same user and password, which means that this idea is not going to increase security, but more likely increase convenience so someone doesn't have to type their password in all the time"
"come on guys... don't let this die.it's simple... i know alot of people would rather have total free injection.but i'm willing to help everyone around by suggesting a compromise.allow skills to be injected into the queue if your going to meet hem within the 24 hour window.if you change the queue... the skill can be destroyed.honestly its that simple.whether ccp says it is...is a different story... but it wouldn't hurt to have csm bring it up.please give support!"
"i'll bring it up next meeting."
"\"\"\"joe pilot has minmatar industrial ship skill to be completed at level v very soon\"\"\"the \"blah blah\" was the reason your skill was not inject-able. you must have all prerequisites 100% trained and have less then 24 hours in the current queue. if you do, then the skill should be inject-able.if you find a problem with the current system then add another long skill train to the end of your current queue, and log in when the prerequisite skill has completed and inject the skill then.is csm really going to bring this to ccp? you want ccp code for early injections of skills that currently have prerequisites in queue? whats next? people will want a queue of inject-able skills added to the skill queue.has ccp not put enough time coding and breaking and recoding these features to add flexibility and convenience in eve with the skill queue, and inject-able skills for you? i trained 30m sp worth of skills without a skill queue and i managed not to complain about skill training time. if it is a serious problem for you not being able to queue a injection i think you should quit playing."
"no...i'm sorry, i can't agree with this."
"i really can't see why not, and i've had this minor annoyance myself quite a few times.supported xz"
"i support this proposal."
"yes pls"
"i support!it would also be nice if custom orbit ranges would be per ship. i hate having to change the custom range everytime i change between a frigate tackler and a long range sniper..."
"i'll write my name all over this one.love the hot-key ideasupportedxz"
"i played wow for a long time, where in much of the game you simply can't be competitive without using mods that trivialize whatever you're trying to do (raid warnings, threat meters, arena mods, etc.). limited capability is ideal, imo.that said, some degree of macro functionality would be a godsend, even if it was just basic things like switching ammo in one button press instead of having to dig through the context menu for the ammo type on the fly, or keep at range/orbit macros that set the range so you don't have to right click the stupid thing on the selected object window, go through the context menu and type the range on the fly if you want something that's not in the uselessly list of default ranges. i guess either of these couls also be implemented inside the ui without the risk of opening pandora's box but v0v"
"which dont counter cov ops cynos..."
"i like this idea."
"yes yes yessss"
"pretty cool idea and albeit handy to manysupportedxzedit; 'cus i'm bad at forums"
"i can see some issue with the fact that there are so many issues to deal with and they seem to be presented the same whether its easy or hard for ccp to solve, also the fact that there are minor issues that can be done but are instead discounted for a long-time-coming \"overhaul\" of the entire system. like poses, corp interface, evemail, etc.since ccp of course picks and chooses what it wants to implement out of the csm suggestions anyways, and they do know better which is easy or hard to implement, then this may be unnecessary.i need more time to assess exactly what can be done better but right now i generally agree with the sentiment."
"abit lateedit: i suggest a list of a fixed size, say 20 thing, which the csm thinks is important to be fixed. that gives ccp 40-60 \"minor\" issues for fixing, for every expansion."
"this would be really nice. there are some things which needed fixing but are not big or of huge importance to really put onto the csm agenda. this could however really work out nicely."
"i never claimed to be the only one who had thought of this idea. thing is, it still hasn't been done, and for that matter those were both jita park threads, so it hasn't even properly been attempted as far as i can tell. i think it's worth a shot, because half the threads i want to raise aren't even worth mentioning until this is in place, and i can't be the only one."
"good idea"
"if there are that many things that need fixing well they should be able to figure some of it out themselves. anyways support, the more fixing of stuff the better"
"badside we wouldnt have infinite money anymoregoodside t2 stuff will cost 50 mil per mod and we will be the only ones who can afford it thanks to stockpiled infinite money muahahhaa"
"gonna bump this so me or someone remembers to bring it up for meeting #4"
"use lazors you faegggggglots, i xtrained so should you >:["
"op should add that it would also help with the dps drop when engaged in pvp in a system that is lagged. the guns would continue to fire after reloading regardless of lag. i love it!"
"yes!!! i hate reloading on a pos bash."
"if you don't i will.useful for dreads and minmatards in high lag situations (maybe)."
"supported."
"signed"
"signed"
"actually erik should bring it up early, if this goes through the csm process then we have to wait another two months before someone in iceland first hears of it, and then another month till it gets fixed. ccp needs to get a letter on their desk today."
"definetely. i would be bummed if i was in their shoes to be honest."
"/signed"
"i support this message."
"the 22nd was the driving force to those plexes being taken and the systems being won.they deserve this medal and the recognition that goes along with it.do the right thing ccp./signed and supported."
"if ccp were to change the way the address book works and organises contacts they could have it as if you're on their buddy list you can see information such as this otherwise i wouldn't support thisthis would mean making the address book have sections to put war targets (since this is all i use my address book for and i suspect many others)as for old characters i too see little chance of chars from back in 03 coming back to eve (or even remembering their passwords) but i don't think they will ever remove them xz"
"and this is another stasi thing that has go away. tmi with no reasonably need to know.i don't really care what resolution it gives out (hours, days, weeks, months), it should not be there. in wow sh*t like that does not matter. here it does."
"i came across a macro hauler hub the other day and all i got for my efforts was a bad sec status./supported"
"catching macros and boosting piracy in an excellent package! supported!"
"i just came back from one and my reward for shooting one of the pricks was the same"
"i have tried shooting macrohaulers few times, killing maybe 100 or so in one day. it didn't really make them stop doing it. they flied t1 haulers worth of like 500.000 isk and had mods worth of maybe 100.000 isk. so losing one hauler was less than 1 mil isk worth of them. and practically nothing for me. except that i went below -9.0 sec status pretty fast.afaik it should be very easy to increase worth of mission hauler loot and make them have a bit more collateral. real haulers should be able to easily avoid camps with wcs, cloak, scouts etc. these guys are not even trying"
"what more needs to be said.supportedxz"
"supported. and maybe hopefully if all the pirates are off killing macroers, this will keep them from killing me?"
"supported b/c i hate macros with a passion"
"i'm not sure my ego would fit in a rifter. i need a little more room to sleep too."
"apart from griefing, why would you want to war dec more then 3 differant entities at the same time?from a mercenary point of view u war dec the corp that you are paid to and any support corp or corp that sides/helps the corp you are shootingfrom a vendatta scenario same applies without the obvious paymentfrom a land grab point of view again same appliesso im at a loss why you would want to run more than 3 war decs unless its greifing people for no other reason than you canso unless you can show a need i withold my support"
"to quote someone i recently threatened (albeit with non wardec means) 'i have 7 accounts and 19 chars with corp management skills'corp hopping to avoid war is going on right now.fear not iwant.within the next few days i will be publishing a dossier with new that will enable you and your hisec dwelling comrades to enact brutal wars upon those who have wronged you, but also allow the defender some leniency."
"but if they really wanted to avoid the war all they have to do is go to a npc corp, so tbh whether they corp hop or not to avoid the war dec becomes a mute point"
"i would support this if it was based on membership.personally i think there's something ridiculous about a 1-man corp war-deccing a 1500 man alliance. (mine)anyways. i'd rather it be made so you get +1 war dec every x number of members or some such. i'd like to recommend that."
"some specific cases can be solved by altering game mechanics to make macroing unfeasible, and im introducing those as proposals myselfin other situations nothing short of gm-driven anti-macro features will do, becuase they will either not work or make life awful for legit players. like the op"
"signed! simply the best, simplest, most compact , and doable way to make isk making harder on the farmers, and make isk more expensive for those buying it, without harming young players in faction corps.care to make a list of known macro corps and alliances public so those willing can dec them?your wrong..it no less then... increases the amount of time a macro has to be active to earn the same amount of isk. this makes the isk they sell more expensive and closer inline with legit ways of buying isk (though the sale of gtc's). it also encourages macros to create corps that can be war dec'ed."
"all the csm responses were fail as far as reading and comprehension of the op's idea, and what positive effects it would have. they have in turn have shunned it giving no useful alternatives or decided to push it aside to apply their own agendas.csm response #1restricting access to level 4 would cut down a large percentage of isk making mission runners income. reduce the amount of isk, increases the cost of buying it, thus putting it more inline with legit ways (gtcs)all of the rest of these poroblems are out of the scope of changes talked about, but each can be dealt with it it's own way:-solo 0.0 macros are rare and far in between and not like 4-8 hulk pilots per system like in empire. leave it to the sov holders to put players in those system and make use of it and the macro will sit in system cloaked 23/7 doing nothing. -as far as legit 0.0 alliance corps full of macro's, its up to the alliance to boot them or people petitioning to get them removed.your best attempt to solve the problem was to troll the op's thread. fail. why are you even in csm?csm response #2there is no way to change the mechanics to defeat macros that does not at the same time burden or \"make life awful for legit players\". thus is counter productive to 99.999% of pilots in eve, and a waste of time on the developers side.op's idea doesn't restrict the use of these ai faction corps or effect new pilots that are in the faction corps. it only restricts access to higher levels of isk making while in them. the op has a much simpler and workable idea that does not effect the game play for the average player.op's idea pushed aside without proper forethought and personal agenda elevated. again, if your not going work with the eve community to help solve problems that face the community, why are you in csm?"
"there are different types of macros in different situations and in some specific circumstances yes you can.ok so we will have macro farmer corps that disband the moment someone wardecs them. that will help so much.i am well known for my pro-highsec pro-carebearing position. i do not ever reconcile with eve's majority pirate/0.0 population. isk farmers for the win"
"getting pretty fed up with the broken f*****g nag, not to mention our bs and a few other ships. it's a sad day when many matari pilot's after being loyal to matari ships of many years call it quits and train amarr or gallente."
"what if you made it horizontal but not in the back-forward orientation most ships are, but in the side-to-side orientation? so its incredibly wide and can still get bumped off stations while undocking like we all love."
"simple really - allow *full* user customisation/scripting of ui because you guys are rather hopless at it. changing overview filters and moving some bars is a step but its not the long term answer. the long term answer is let the players script their own ui to suit their circimstances.yes i know many other mmo's allow full customisation/scripting of ui, but the point in question is that players have a habit of finding things for improvement, and the ui as it stands is in a sorry state."
"very much needed."
"as has been stated this would be a great feature even though i dont run the most up to date cards around."
"the following characters have been paid their isk for participation asof sunday 21.jun 09 12:28 (gmt+1):leyline777kornashvoknarpoint dexter"
"i give my support for this idea.however i can't help wonder if you are cheapening the support for this proposal by paying participants."
"tbh while i understand where youre coming from, since i remember the days when i was a new player (pvp wise), but; i also know that there are tons of corps that reside in hisec that will let you get your feet wet going into lowsec or 0.0 and now especially wh fighting. if you need help finding ppl i can help ya out. also, if you go solo on your first times and arent a natural at it you will be ****d by people like me and mine whos goal is to kill everything we come across or at least ransom it. start cheap and work up."
"agreed, any sort of arena or other \"softcore\" goes against everything that eve stands for.i say no to arenas or battlegrounds in any form.to anyone wanting pvp without consequencesworld of warcraft ------>runescape ------>"
"want to pvp without risk and to be fair?test server, use it.supported, there is no room for this kind of bastardization.xz"
"this."
"arenas would slowly but surely kill real pvp. signed"
"pvp arenas are ridiculous. we need more real pvp. if this crap goes on any kind of piracy becomes impossible. everyone just goes to arena to test their new golden weapons found from local sewer."
"i agree. while i personally dislike being the victim of piracy i can understand the absolute absurdity of having a dedicated pvp area in outer space as well as how it would hurt pvp how it already exists in game"
"supported!!!"
"it is possible to have tourney's and \"arena\" like fights with current mechanics, just risk is involved.the less like wow this game is, the better it is/signed"
"arena's with permanent ship loss is fine. i would like to do a 1 v 1 but usually when i am killing someone, the can flagging rules means more than 1 can join in. not that it matters much since i am used to 1vmany odds and coming out in top, but the concept is pretty decent.as for the game turning into wow, well, wow repair costs for some guy is probebly harder to earn than the cost of loosing a pvp bc due to insurance in terms of time. if anything, remove insurance"
"char employment history, corp alliance history, were all implemented by ccp to help players keep track of the history of other players- to further ensure their honesty and assess their potential value in recruiting. private buys and sells of characters subverts this game mechanic by the simple fact that the new owner does not have the same history the old owner does, and there is no way to reveal this to a 3rd party through api or anything. buys and sells on eve-o are public and can be recorded, but private sells are also allowed and there is no public record of it happening. there is also no way for a recruit to prove to a recruiter that he hasn't been bought, via highsec api or anything, even though he can give up his entire wallet and location of all assets. this has consequences in how players interact with other players. from recruiters having to deal with more crap to social interactions being impacted.i propose that ccp somehow publically record when a character is bought or sold. just like characters get employment histories, they will also get ownership histories. if making it public is too much work or somehow a bad idea, at least make it an api data export behind the highsec api key for recruitment purposes.another issue is that all petition history and discussion is retained when characters are transferred to different accounts. i'm pretty sure this violates ccp's privacy policy with reguards to petition when that account is owned by another person. we need the option to permanently delete the old petition history when transferring characters"
"i don't get it. they are still required to make a thread on a private sale afaik? or at least i vaguely remember something like that.if it isn't the case, that would be enough to let players backtrack tbh.<3 chribba, with eve-search.com for authors.but, since you are referring to the angle of people buying characters to be untraceable, have you considered the trap of people buying characters for others..that always used to be a major method for snapping quick 3-4m skillpoint players used for insertion into places for spying and thieving. typically a venture done by a few guys where one \"respectable\" dude would buy the character but in the transaction provide the account name of the mate who was going to mess around in knights of the southern cross or that kind of victim alliance.how would you take that into account."
"now that part i fully support as a problem. major privacy violation."
"i think petitions should be tied to the account and not the characteras for when they are bought/sold i don't really see how that impacts other people. if they sweet talk you into letting them joining you and then swindle you well, knowing the character has been sold doesn't help too much. sure if they are a gh-sc alt knowing that would make a difference, but if they are gh-sc they would know to use unknow alts, or so i would think. or if they have a history of scamming, then can then launder the character to a new account and well it is clean."
"major issue."
"no threads are required in a private sale. the threads are just used as evidence if someone gets scammed. spy alts are often purchased this way.spying is a major reason for this. it's a loophole to get past the employment history, and theres no way for someone to prove they are bought one way or the other. oftentimes this means negative consequences for people trying to get recruited because they have only one character(especially only one capital character) or something like that- recruiters suspect a higher likelyhood of being purchased, and this hurts the chances of innocent people who have no way of proving they are the original owner. even when they can expose just about everything short of their password to a recruiter through the apiedit: and another thing, 2 minutes ago i've discovered petitions can be deleted through the ingame interface, afaik they cannot be deleted via the web interface(which is what i tend to use). not all players know petitions can be deleted, and even fewer know they must be deleted."
"it is possible to delete petition data, but not many people know of this.it should be a rule based requirement for character sales and transfers for players to delete this kind of data, since it clearly violates a number of policies, for example sharing gm communications and such.ccp can do a quick fix: add to the character transfer rules the requirement to delete any and all privacy related data on the character in question, specifically mentioning petition data. at the same time this would help with getting people to clean up inboxes too :pnote: this is a perfect example of such a [minor] issue as pointed out by herschel and lvv for a shortlist format for ccp to process."
"i support a marker in the char history which shows its been purchased"
"i have no objection to character transfers being public data, and the bit about tying petitions to the account instead of the character is genuinely good. supported."
"this is an issue alright"
"favorable on both. eve mail should be removed too (too easy to get informations from that too).the only doubt about petitions is for the open reimbursement petition, but it is a minor issue, i doubt someone will sell a character with x assets plus y assets in reimbursement petitions.on the other hand if the reimbursement has been requested for character johnny the reimbursed item should not be given to character able only because it is was on the same account. if you sell the character the petition is closed and no one will get anything."
"/support"
"actually, that's pretty much exactly what i mean."
"no the i shot the dog because he was losing it after seeing all the filth coming from the kill mail *****s drooling and stroking there perverse e-peens.kill mails should be simple and say simply who died... who got the kill and who assisted.end of story... wooo... got a kill.on to the next one!"
"its not like ship fits are some super secret thing. there's generally 1-4 accepted \"best\" ship fits for any given ship excluding whatever mod someone might want to put in a utility slot. only utility this would serve is so when you die in a horrible fit you dont get that extra insult added to your injury.in short lots of extra **** you have to do for no realistic gain who cares about ship fits being secret seriously, it doesnt help you much after the ship is dead."
"your missing the point.those ships fits once published to someones killboard are broadcasted to the whole damn planet.information is a premium... my sucky fits are none of your damn business.all you should care about is you beat me fair and square.now if you want to work for it... as proposed.. don't mind at all.. means your making an effort besides stroking your epeen."
"yes it is <3"
"cool ideas.. increase game play aspect but i would not require a new skill. i would allow kill mails to show player name, corp, alliance, ship type, and location, and maybe loot dropped similar to the older kill mails. maybe use an existing skill like salvaging and require you to salvage the wreck to receive data on the ship fittings and original cargo manifest. another cool benefit, you would be able to get fitting information on ships that self destructed by salvaging the wreck. there is an awful lot of information that can be gleaned off of a kill mail about the player killed. an idea of his play style, skills, wallet size among others. i think spending a little more time at the source to get that information for those interested isn't such a bad thing. most the time unless it's like a shuttle your going to salvage that wreck anyhow, unless in the end you don't hold the field. running from a fight basically leaves you with little to no intel and leaves a lot of yours left floating in space.another plus, it would defiantly **** off the km fiends that would kill anything just for the kill mail. you might have to have a better reason to engage in pvp now! also better reason to insure you hold the field afterwords. the only downside i see is it becomes a drag for fast paced roaming pvp to collect intel on those they have killed, but it is a minor one./supported op idea adds to game play in several ways, it has a lot more to do with then getting someones super secret fittings. there is an awful lot of information that can be gleaned off of a kill mail about the player killed. we take it for granted now. this extra information has value, thus changes some pvp aspects, like holding the field after the fight has new added value."
"create tackle for low slots for use with shield tankers. this would allow them to pvp with a full tank, and reduce the gank but give them tackle."
"not sure i understand what you mean at all."
"or when you go out in a gang bring a tackler. if you are solo umm well acomodate for a scram like the rest of us."
"no, sorry not supported. shield tanks are already very powerful when used correctly, even with tackle.xz"
"not really except certain buffer tanks maybe or insanely expensive faction fits etc. weird stuff, low slot tackle mods are not so good idea though..."
"armor tanks can fit tackle easily, shield tanks can fit damage and speed mods easily. seems fine to me. not supported."
"this is the part of the game where you learn to work as a team - one of you brings the dps, the other one brings the tackler.not supported."
"agree with herschelnot supported"
"like let ceo or corp appointed director kick character i think you missed this part of the op.ceo kicking out character would stil deter theifs unless the ceo is the one stealing in the first place,character sales would go smoother look how many you see get canceled becuase the seller forgets to drop roles or doesnt even know he has them"
"by the time youd get the corp together the 24 hours would up so this is kind of pointless"
"not supported.they are fine as they are."
"so they're op and broken, but when given the choice to use them, you stick to the hammers instead? i assume you have your ewdi skill trained, from the way you phrase it, so i have to wonder just how op they can be when you yourself prefer to use hammers."
"what are you? a total noob?there are skills that affect any and all drones... maybe not the ecm part but they are affected none-the-less.and you think they are bad?how about the falcon?your really out of your league here... go back and learn to play the game./thread"
"you said it yourself"
"1a) remove vaga speed bonus - the \"but the vaga...\" argument ruined minnies' position during the speed nerf1b) pull up all minnie base speeds2) nerf mwds to +400 and buff abs to ~200% - i don't see why caldari mwd-cruisers can overrun minnie ab-frigsor2) reduce signatures until evading unbonuse'd tier3-weapons of similar size can be dodged by more than just the scimitar. include extenders in your spreadsheets, pl0x; and guided missile precision.3) fix/boost/replace split-weapons - just 'cause the phoon can pull it off (on paper) doesn't mean all the other ships can; rep fleet scythe with 5 lows and 50m<U+FFFD> drones? now we're talking..."
"rapier-typhoon-tempest-nidhoggur-naglfar-helall are minnie ships that have some other ship in eve that does every important thing better then it does(except typhoon which is best smartbombing ship imho).ccp need to drop split weapons systems on all ships(or else compensate with higher bonuses), which would go a long way to helping minnie ships and a few other ships of other races that are underpowered.theres a lot of ship balance i want to discuss while im in the csm and a lot of it is minmatar rebalancing but i couldnt bring this thread to a meeting as a proposal. there is no meat to it."
"didn't the naglfar just a buff and became a damage beast?"
"this really details the problem better then i can in a post i write in 3 minutes"
"while i agree some minmatar ships need love (just like other ships in game) especially faction variants, this is the wrong way to go about it. however the typhoon slot layout could be taken further.think, post. i just learned this, i think you need to also.xz"
"the mimmatar caps look the best and a certain ship in that list is freaking verticle !nuff said tbh."
"large ac's and maybe some battleships might need some working but compared to other races in general minmatar are doing ok. i also think adding more drones isn't really good way, minmatars are not really \"the\" drone race. they also already have smallest and most agile ships in game so boosting that further isn't a really good idea. (you should notice difference after flying i.e. caldari ship first then go and pilot minmatar one, there's already quite a difference)"
"i would like cheap gametime too but i think its one of those things ccp isnt going to budge on even if every player ever voted yes on it."
"rgr,i'm not looking for cheap gametime i'd like to pay a fair reasonable price and i really want to see the 90 day cards make a reappearance. i guess the \"market\" is what determines fair and reasonable. i do believe that with more than once price point 60 day gtc prices will continue to rise.have you looked at 30 day plex prices? they are averaging between 400-500m.but in the end i'm afraid you're right, there is really no incentive for ccp to change other than to give their customers more choices when it comes to gtcs.after rethinking my position the bottomline for me is more choices which means added flexibility in how i manage accounts. if more choices happen to lower the prices that's even better.bluf:1. bring back the 90 day gtc."
"allthough these were very good and usefull in there days if brought back now the pirce will be above 1 billion isk since 60 days are 800 mill"
"\"fair reasonable\" = \"cheaper then it is now\"the economy is in the ****ter and people are buying less gtc for play money, right now is not the time to ask ccp to lower their price in responce to that"
"i remember very well a 90d gtc for 360m..."
"we already asked for this. not a chance it's happening."
"but if it comes up csm after csm after csm maybe they will. either way i don't really care."
"don't really care if 90 days are re-introduced or not, but i'd vote for ccp to stop the resell for a 30-day plex.it's a reasonable request imo and i have yet to see an argument for it that argues convincingly that letting cash flushed players/traders buy them all up and relist them for insane profits is good for the game."
"ill put this simple as i can for you and break it down to bullet points as i dont want you to try and de-rail this thread;1)the ideas put on the op is a collection of ideas from differant threads scattered through the forums, a work in progress if you will as i was told the so called community representatives need some ideas to discuss, debate and try to evolve2) caod is meant to be on a alliance or corperate level 'not a individual level' people would like to see control amongst the player base ie it doesnt need few hundred players of a alliance to voice their duplicated opinion thereby smothering the thread and other posters comments3)he point you have proved is that for some very odd reason you seem to think that this thread is for attacking the idea not once but a no of times when the ideas are not the only ones on the table and its been said time and time again 'something has got to be done with caod'you also seem to be using the word 'i' whence talking about yourself and the effect the ideas will have on you as a individual rather than the effect it will have on caod or your entityalso i note that the use of curse words are used where the system has blocked them out, says to me that you have given a 'emotional response' whence i suggested you were emotive4)'floundering' 'wasting time' as you have said before you can either choose to read it, support it or not so any time thats apparently been wasted is your time by you, as for 'floundering' i have a clear objective i know what im doing and have a plan so no floundering here young man5)caod can be improved and the suggestings ive made and others with tougher penalties is only made as the it appears that certain individuals and entities cannot seem to control their posting ruining caod for others - now im not debating who is doing this and not debating whether the perception of ruining the forums is in who evers opinion and why with examples and icing sugarall of the mods and staff at ccp ive had the pleasure of discussing this topic with other the years has said 'they know' and are either working on it or have plans for caod, im just gee'ing them up a bit and even trying to get ideas for caod from the playerbase and hopefully find a csm that can put this forward to table."
"god, you want so badly to just unleash a profanity laden rant about how much of a miserable ****sucker i am, but you don't want your pet project sabotaged. well, it's ok. i understand, and appreciate you condescending to my level in order to show me the error of my ways. yes, they certainly are!it is? can you show me a source for this, please?yes, i do mock and try to destroy terrible ideas, at times. it doesn't matter if they're the only ideas, or one of a million, if it's terrible, it needs to be laughed at and pushed aside to make room for non insane ideas. it looks like you simply expect this thread, and it's ideas to have support simply because it exists. please, friend, tell me i'm wrong.i've already talked about the affect that some of the proposed ideas will have on caod, but yes, i suppose i would like to not be banned from participating in an important part of the game world. especially not because of such terrible edicts as have been proposed in this thread.as far as being emotive and giving emotional responses, you're wrong. i just like to say **** a lot. just like you're giving an emotional response when you are trying to insult my intelligence all over the place in your post, and acting like you're the goddamn height of class and reasonable discourse. speaking of which....i don't think this word means what you think it means.you're so right! it is, indeed, my fault for reading the proposal, and then after disagreeing with it, stating why i did. wasted time, breaking up a fallacy festival with troublesome disagreement and logic. i'm so sorry, grandpa. by the way, do you realize how much harm you do to your own arguements when you make such an age based assumption?if you and ccp and santa clause wanna tinker with caod, that's fine. but the problems start when the ideas are insane, and the worst of them have a voice because of people's in game affiliations (no more bull****, it's obvious that many of the posts in this thread are exactly that) and sense of morals. to me, caod is easy enough. the culture of the community has evolved the culture of the forum, but it's still basically the same as ever. this cannot really be strong armed into something else."
"i can't ever really remember it not being trolling/utter ****e. although there are a few good threads started, that just get overflowed with ****e responses."
"what do you think of this idea?too be able too rent out science slots too other corps/players?"
"i like this idea.i would also like to be able to rent out slots to others.how would the blueprints get into the labs?"
"it's been requested before, but there are serious technical issues with it. it's not going to happen this side of the great pos cleanup, i expect."
"i don't see the need."
"before the orca i'd say yes.now that i've had the orca.... no.want a bigger can? get an orca.not supported."
"csm3 meeting #4, sunday july 5th 16:00the third issues meeting of csm3 on july 5th at 16:00.issue submission deadline will be july 4th 16:00items on the agenda:1: eve account security proposal (maz)2: station dock radii (zastrow)3: skill injection (oz)4: covert cynos in high sec (dv)5: looting from wreck you didn't create = looter flagged to (wreck) killer in empire (avalloc)6: make certain factions more valid for mission running (erik)7: stuff about character transfers and problems caused by it (maz)8: faction warfare - allied forces (oz)9: add probes to overview (dv)10: visible aggression indicator in 0.0 space (avalloc)11: revisit standings matrix (erik)12: make guns continue firing at previous target after reload (maz)13: personal wallet divisions (dv)14: container idea (maz)15: machinima support in wis (dv)"
"that would make recruitment a horrible nightmare. no reason to **** up everybody else's lives because someone has some false feeling of inferiority due to their regdate."
"i like that idea. why should an entire career history be public knowledge?"
"mazz i dont see this as an issue with recruiting as the applicant can be asked for them to show you their corp history. btw if this is no concern of ccp's why are they releasing a parrel game in germany shortly ?"
"also mazz if i applied to sniggerdly i'd be told go take a hike as i do not have a kill board that wouldnt impress a gnat and possibly not enough skills point yet. even though i'm keen, ingame rich, own caps, can build t2 on my alt. i'm aware that a corp/alliance like yours doesnt want time waisters and people who no idea of the game. there are many people in eve who would be a benifit to sniggerdly even though they dont meet your requirements.\"elite\" come to mind."
"being involved in this huge war has really skewed our recruitment. but hopefully this will go back to the way it was. \"the way it was\" meant we would take on 2 month old newbies when they show the ability to learn and play well with the knowledge they gained- and of course kill boatloads of stuff. all the \"elitism\" entirely comes down to fear of spies, and the simple fact that fewer people keep spy alts for years then they do for months. inferiority in eve as well as a lot of other things in life always boils down to whether the pilot feels himself inferior and unworthy, or does not.anyways in practical recruiting terms getting them while they're young more likely ensures their loyalty to you."
"fair point mazz, and i know the spy issue is something that concerns me to. anyway i'll leave this topic alone now as i can see you've thought about and have your own views and fair enough we all have the right to that. oh btw maybe one day we can chat on vent as i think it would be enlightening for both of us.cheers dapto"
"oh ok, sure"
"hello sirs,there seems to be slightly false understanding that there is no consequences for being under -5.0. really flashy people cannot enter hi sec and they can be shot on sight in lo sec or hi sec. this is a serious drawback in general. sure you can use alts for hauling stuff but it's still a big annoyance.however, since there's no real gain for being flashy (except noobs fleeing in panic instead of owning your bs with an interceptor) and it's easy to get back \"non-flashy\" there's a problem there."
"created wiki page for macro haulers issue. i know i just did it 3 hours before a meeting the content of the page is just copy pasted, and there is nothing new added.edit: i guess you would want the link to it"
"o_oiatl then."
"i can't read anything on my 73\" mitsubishi dlp at 1920x1080. i only get around by rote when i'm playing on this display. and it beats playing on the other 17\" lcd for many obvious reasons. i don't care so much about the font itself as the ability to go past 12 points. it needs to be adjustable far past this."
"hmmm, i now see what you mean. supported."
"/signedi really want to have the old cyno effect back or a new more awesome one."
"i also support this."
"in fact, i did. did you? ^ meaning, hell yes- it's possible to put out more dps in a kestrel than a hawk, but does that mean that make a kestrel a better ship? honestly- ltff (learn to f***ing fly) ships before whining for a buff. yes, afs are squishy and not easy ships to fly- but they're frigates. the fact that i feel wholly comfortable engaging most t2 cruisers in my af is a clear sign that if anything, afs need a nerf- but quite frankly, they're fine where they are now.afs take specialization to fly, and practice to fly well. learn to choose your engagements, and take full advantage of your size and your tank. if you're getting popped too quick, it's because you're allowing yourself to be tracked- medium guns and larger should never hit you if you're orbiting at close range, and small drones can be killed, tanked, or outrun. if your target is tanking you, go after something smaller, and quit whining that your t2 frigate can't kill a mission fit battlecruiser.honestly- you wonder why eve has so many balance issues? it's because people like those supporting this thread cba to learn from their mistakes, and be creative- they'd rather just complain and blame ccp.assault frigs are fine. if you can't fly them well, that's your own damn problem."
"there is a check box below the text box that says support this thread, just check it. 5 times in trying to post this, please ccp for the love of god fix the forums"
"i gave this a thumbs up three pages back. subsequently i've read all of the csm input in this thread and i have some choice words. poppy****. uttery poppy****. since \"dead horse\" appeared their have been changes to the code base, drones have been revised completley as have missiles, nano modules and so on. let us not forget that \"dead horse\" predates trinity and the later move to a sm2/sm3 only engine in apoc'. \"ccp say it's too difficult\". i don't believe you, i don't believe them. because they have already taken on much larger projects with regards to overhauling elements of eve than this would require. you seriously want me to accept that rewriting the whole graphics engine and redesigning all art assets is smaller than migrating the current half-finished joke of poses to this system? in a word. no.will you please get this on the table. not as \"funky pos thing\" but as the actual debate that's been going on for 3 years+. just because csm1 were fobbed off i see no reason for csm2 and csm3 to stick their fingers in their respective ears and go \"lalalalala i can't hear you\"."
"1.0"
"yes"
"autopilot docks up"
"using containers reduces the load on the database, the 30% size bonus is to encourage us to use them."
"just to play devil's advocate:training anchoring 1 and buying all those cans is a tax people pay for the extra cargo space. also, undivided cargo space is more valuable than divided space when you need to carry bulky stuff like packaged ships. this proposal would be a noticeable buff. buffs like that usually come with compensating nerfs."
"supported"
"i do like this proposal i know some tacklers would like this change, may i also suggest a way to set a compeatly custom orbit or keep at range feature so we can set something for our ships optimal ranges rather than the \"keep at currant (**km)"
"for having written addons for world of warcraft, i really support this idea, as long as it's done right and that it's easy to maintain.if they create an addon engine similar to the one blizzard made for world of warcraft (maybe not as advanced, but similar), it would be great."
"sorry no. since dead horse appeared there have been massive changes to the game code and art assets. indeed when you were posting on the original thread as part of (i think) csm1 it was still pre-trinity. this isn't \"too hard\" or \"too difficult\" nor is it \"csm doesn't want to be seen like spoiled children\" it's actually \"can't be bothered\" and \"i've got my own pet project to get noticed\"..."
"the reson for not implementing this according to ccp was the fact that to do what is proposed would require a whole rewwrite to currant pos mechanics and a compleately new set of artwork that would \"redirect resources from other important tasks\" as well as figuring out what to do with existing pos's in space. ( and dont forget lads there are alot)personly i honestly dont buy most of it thought i do agree that figuring out what to do with the exisiting pos's is a legit issue for the implementation. though this was asked for way before the new art upgrade for the pos's came out and then some and everyone most of the eve community does want a pos overhaul as it is."
"+1more shooty shooty for hybrids.and anybody trying to afk fof mission run will quickly find themselves in a pod as griefers have a field day getting ppl concorded. i know i would"
"supported"
"i'm not sure if i agree with this or not. on the one hand, yes afk pos bashing would be made easier for pilots other than amarr. on the other hand, reloading and then firing on a ship in a fight takes additional micro-managing that every pilot has to deal with (except amarr with t1 crystals). it allows those who can micro-manage even the minute details to gain a small edge in pvp.ah what the hell, i'll support it because i don't think it's right that *only* amarr ship pilots get to afk pos bash."
"this can only be good."
"actually - i vote the other way around. nerf lazors so they need a reload. an overheat or something. afk eve should not be afk./not signed"
"i don't have anything to do with fw, but i do think this needs to be fixed.they did the work, so at least give them the medal"
"supported"
"supported"
"supported. however, i could see how some logistics pilots might actually prefer to stay off of kms for intel reasons."
"ariane you say it dont matter well obviously you have never run a corp/alliance in 0.0. well i'd like to tell yo it does matter whether your a renter or non renter you still have to contribute to the e-peen collective fund and paying for inactive accounts is not something i like to or do pay for. but however it's has happened to me several times after a the timer goes to over month ive kicked people only to find later that as it happens to us all that a rl event has occured and they wernt even able to log in for a few months even though there accounts were still active."
"inactive characters don't do anything but take up database space, which means nothing to the database. there would be no point in deleting them (in fact, it would produce more load). separating them would just be complicated."
"that is completely wrong.sorting, indexing, optimizing and backuping a table that has 4 million records versus one that has only 2 will take much less time. it would also take less time to search that table and thus reduce the cpu load of the sql server indirectly.the advantage of this change wouldn't be as much for the players than it would be for the db admins.please stop saying stuff like that when you don't have a clue when you're talking about."
"do you have any idea how ccp's database works? exactly, quit talking like you know what your talking about."
"yes i do know as a matter of fact. i know microsoft sql server, which is what ccp uses (according to their data dumps), and i've seen data dumps, so i got a pretty good idea how their database and tables work too. every sql database works more or less the same. it's no different for theirs. it's common knowledge when you're a database administrator (which i am).besides, i don't need to know the details of how their tables are organised, named or what data goes in which table, etc... what i said applies to any sql server environment. it's a known fact that a table that has more records will take more time to maintain, optimize, backup, index and search. it doesn't take a master's degree to understand that either. everytime you do a search in a table, the server has to look through the index (if there's one) or all records individually. the more records you have, the longer this will take, so the more cpu it will take on the server. for example, depending on your backup system it could take hours just to backup a table with 4 million records, depending on the size of the records.now, i know that you can't just delete records from a relational database like this, because the character id would probably be referenced in other tables at some point, so you would have to delete records in more than one table in order to do it without getting foreign key constraint errors. i don't know for a fact that it would be easily feasible for ccp to do this (it's always feasible, but not always easy is what i mean. would need scripts and such), but i do know that deleting dead records from a database always helps."
"qft. seriously. having worked with mysql and ms sql (or hearing those words tossed around in a meeting, which is what i presume) does not give you anywhere near the full picture of what ccp is dealing with. what you're basically proposing is that \"hey, instead of one database, ccp should use two databases!!!\"that said - would you want to be the one to push the enter button after building that delete script on a production server of this size?that'd be digitally akin to giving the order to drop the bomb on nagasaki. no thanks. /not supported"
"not voted for. one of the key points of eve is that even when you leave for three years, you can come back to your account with everything in it."
"supported. i'm on a laptop with no mouse, so i'd really appreciate the zoom buttons being replaced."
"arrrr, sir smelly supports macro gankage."
"actually - this seems like a logical approach./signedalso - remove cva, the great protectors of macro-haulers. i swear, ya kill a few of 'em and everyone over there starts screamin \"pie rat!!\""
"supported."
"the docking autopilot:i<U+FFFD>d love to have the autopilot docking up after the destination is reached.even if it would dock on the top station or just at the closest station would be good. number-one-solution would be if you have and advanced option for the autopilot. there you can set up a specific station in system of destination as \"docking dastination\"regards o/"
"i don't see any reason why not."
"so if you set destination to a station, ap will fly you there and dock you up? yeah, sounds cool to me. it doesn't make afk autopiloting safe or fast, but it does save annoyance.edit: also, the 15 km crawl-to-dock part is the correct way to implement this. supporting that too."
"thinking this through i dont see a problem with this as long as when you warp to the station you are landed 15km of station and need to crawl over to the station."
"strong support of fixing the naglfar, after typing out a skill guide for capital pilots in my alliance i then truely understood how much more split weapon systems is a serius time sink skill training wise and would put most people of training for the thing"
"already been proposed."
"is this client modification or just ui modification?"
"how did i miss this thread?"
"i don't see how an arena or battleground could be a bad addition given that they both have the same consequences as \"real\" eve; if you lose your ship you still lose it.edit:also with an \"arena\" kind of thing, or duel, one could place bets. just fine imo! :)"
"well, thats another argument for not implementing. they wouldn't serve a purpose other then making this game more like wow."
"this.stop the hysteria. is fine as long as you lose the stuff, alkso adding bets would be nice and a good place to play scams etc."
"hm. so what does this tell us who don't know wow about world pvp there?a) it's apparently not really that interestingb) it's completely pointless and doesn't serve any purposeafair, in eve most pvp does serve a purpose - keeping enemies away, keeping your area clean of pirates, or simply taking over territorry.seems like enough reason for many of the current pvpers to continue.otoh, having the option to fight under somewhat real conditions while still having some sort of safety-net (i.e. knowing you won't be jumped by a carrier or whatever) might bring reluctant players to try pvp. even if it's just a watered down pvp, it'd be enough to get a taste without choking.hardly anyone is denying that, even if the anti-arena guys are repeating this \"argument\".i'd be willing to bet that 9 out of 10 arena supporters are even insisting thatit should have losses.a victory in a fight where you can't lose anything is worthless, after all."
"rather than having a new half finished feature put into the game that never gets fixed how about we fix the currant faction war feature that was supposed to act as that introduction to pvp but so far has become stale as we have this so called \"war\" that has been restricted to a small area in the middle of the universe without any real consequences for failing to defend systems and no reward for taking them, and with the fact that you are pretty much restricted to your empire and empires allys space and null sec with the fact that you are pretty dam safe in your empires high sec it kind of makes you ask the question that im pretty sure alot of people have been thinking \"is this really a war?\"in all honsety the answer is, no!, it really isnt, if it was a war it would expand into the higher sec systems but there is really no point in going there as you can not take those systems can you.so insted of putting in a little pvp areana with no risk where you may as well go into sisi fix the intended easy pvp feature."
"/signeddefinitely no. arranged fights should never be an official mechanic of eve. if people want to pick fights, they can wardec anyone they want.edit: had to log in 6 times to post this"
"any idea to stop this bull**** gets my vote."
"this is really important, i don't know why it doesn't get more support/discussion.i will support it, both issues (privacy one and ownership history)."
"i ran into this issue very recently, more or less.long time acquaintance suddenly asks me when i convoed \"do i know you?\" and claims he just bought the character.however, there was nothing i could do to check if that was actually true.not only should the transfer of a character be public info, but the addressbook should also be deleted when a character is transfered and all player standings need to be reset. i don't want any blues or reds in my overview, that all of a sudden i seemingly don't really know anymore.to reduce the risk of abuse, ccp should also ban transferred characters from being re-transferred back to the same player within a minimum timeframe of a few months."
"if you do not have anything else to add than \"you're dumb and do not understand programming\", i suggest you to just shut it. drawing a line between two objects for every shot fired is not that resource intensive. i still want clarification of the issue given the reasons i have described above."
"no, this would just be a nightmare to implement. the reason missiles go straight through things is that it is simply understood that the missiles are advanced enough to navigate around the obstructions.and its rather unfair of you to voice a suggestion in the assembly hall, then whenever someone says its a stupid idea, telling them to \"shut it\" is rather possessive considering this is a public forum.if you voice an opinion that most of us consider unworkable/irrelevant/stupid you should probably to have your idea torn apart.personally, i think the reason these changes were made has to do with lag and server loads and crap.i can't even imagine the lag if in a fleet battle the server had to deal with missiles being redirected around debris and a few hundred ships all fighting and all firing missiles."
"lol @ all the people who seem to have an insight of the game inner working.stop it, is not your job to decide if this is feasible or not. remember ccp wanted csm to pull off game changing ideas about where the game should be heading, and this is what this thread is about.this change would change the game deeply, tactical enviorenment, **** yeah. yes it poses a load of trouble and possible exploits. but let's give devs the last say, it's not our job to do.supported."
"i don't think you 'get' it.this is a brilliant idea, granted however this truly would be extremely hard to implement, and amongst other issues not already posted by the op, would be hard to balance.just because, the people who have replied to this thread, don't have csm or ccp/isd written under their names, doesn't mean they have no clue of how things are going to work.there is a reason dysync exists, this will not help the matter.xz"
"i think you don't get what i'm saying either. i read this subforum usually... and usually some issued are turned off because of technical issues (saw the same on some csm meetigns btw). the thing is: it does not matter if it's possible or not to do so, that's not up to you and me to decide.a lot of issues have been passed onto ccp and they answered \"we will look at it, how can we do this, if is technically possible, etc.\" maybe you won't get an exact implementation of what the op is asking for, but it may trigger a discussion inside ccp between devs on what could be done to add what, and we may get a nice little addition which adds to the game combat, which needs a lot of love (it gets old fast afterall).tl;dr: don't be ***s and stop discussing how possible is techncially or not, if you like the idea support it, leave technical discussion to ccp. and no, you don't need to decide either if this is wasting ccp time or not, if players like it, they should look at it.sorry for all the typos lol"
"i think the payoff is there and it is a good idea, it is just that server intensive bit"
"moderated.applebabei'm not saying, and i will never say, that ccp cannot do this. yes, it can be done. the point is, from a purely economic perspective, it makes no sense. let's consider the options shall we:1. do nothing. no cost, no benefit.2. implement this change while keeping hardware the same -> this yields increased calculations load on the existing servers, some of which are already struggling (been to jita lately?). pushing them harder will only result in even worse lag on the system, which may have negative impact if it gets bad enough that people start quitting the game over it.3. the optimal solution (assuming you're actually going to do this) is obviously to implement this change and upgrade the server hardware at the same time. while this is certainly technically feasible, the question is, is it economically feasible for ccp to spend gobs of cash to upgrade their systems to keep their performace at the same level they have today? i don't think so, and that's why i don't support passing this idea to ccp for a technical review. frankly, i think it's irresponsible to put forward an idea for technical review that is backed by so little of the player base, especially when it will mean significant financial outlay for ccp with little real gain. let's face it, which is going to attract and retain more players: an accurate physics model, or cool features that work as advertised in a normally lag free environment?"
"de'veldrin puts it very well.and the fact is, no no one really cares about this idea. i'd much rather ccp worked on existing issues, or developing wis. not this nightmare."
"full of win. supported"
"many a time i have accidently opened a convo with someone when i never ment to, and sometimes with people who i really dont want to talk to so yes i support this simple and easy change"
"i admit i didn't originally think about that but you're right. since anyone (and multiple people) could scan a wreck this could make it possible to obtain some of the current killmail information from wrecks that you didn't personally create. essentially there would be two different types of \"killmails\": the \"you blew up this ship\" killmail, and the \"you scanned this wreck\" killmail."
"what about the lossmail? would that have all the correct fittings on it. as once a corp api is run, that will end up public without having to scan the wreck."
"i would think the lossmail would remain unchanged. the person who lost the ship should have all of the info about what they lost. whether or not corps and alliances would continue to make all loss-posts public with this change in place is a different question (i would guess many would not)."
"this. seems like a lot of work for little result. frankly - i like having my killmails. /not signed"
"not supported.in the business i am in while playing eve it is nice to have everything listed in the killmail. i sometimes work with not-so-honest people. if the loot isn't split correct, by looking at the killmail, we know who is getting killed next."
"the value of killmails surpasses the value of a potential profit ingame, they really need to be nerfed/removed. when someone kills you just for the killmail, an out of game stat, something is wrong."
"onlining a pos is probably one of the most boring things you can do. it doesn't matter if you have all the help in the world, every pod pilot available, you still have to wait for the bloody things to anchor - 5 minutes, and then another 5 minutes for it to online.if your pos has just 10 modules, you're going to be there just under two hours, and that's if you just anchor and online every module as soon as you can...i know i'm not the only one who thinks the process is absurd...surely there's enough of us who think along the same lines to get this important process more enjoyable?"
"i saw mention of an onlining queue in a thread somewhere, that'd be awesome.i just posted a thread in the f&i forum section about hoping the anchorable deployment interface gets the nice probe dragging interface."
"yeah, the pos system is horrifyingly broken. i'm pretty sure that this has already been asked for by the csm a half-dozen ways, though."
"well, not to be an ass, but while it should be changed, anchoring and bringing a pos online still should be a significant act, so it shouldn't be quick and easy by any means.i do agree that sitting there for 2 hours is boring as hell."
"i have to fully agree with the op that anchoring and onlining a pos currantly is one of the biggest time sinks for any single person to have to contend with, the tower and basic structures inside are one thing but then needing to online the pos guns as well can take half the day and some way of at least being able to online even two structures would cut the time it takes to put up the pos would cut the time down significantly and allow someone else to help out"
"nice"
"definitely needed/signed!"
"full support for a small but highly needed feature."
"supported. would save me a lot of hazzle."
"thumbs up"
"happens to me all the time :("
"that's an obvious thing to do, and it should already be there imo..."
"/supported. i don't think i've ever known how much time i have left on my account. not something i check till they bill me o_o."
"supported. this should be simple to implement."
"this is a simple yet very usefull idea and would be very much welcomed by everyonevery much supported"
"not supportedif there were to be any changes to tackle, they should all be moved to high slots, and even then im not sure i would like that."
"not supported, each tanking type loses some ability and with shield its e-war abilities.--isaac"
"not supported.shield tanker recently got a nice buff on the tackle side with the changes to the 2pt scram."
"no thanks, id rather see some in high slots tho, like target painters"
"train for dics/hics."
"absolutely no. this is the downside of shield-tanking. the upside is a passive recharges to shields. you can still make a damn fine shield tank even with a scram."
"if there are any other ideas or wanted features please do put them down here"
"if the person leaving and the ceo both agree, then there should not be any delay."
"i don't really see a strong enough reason to support this kind of change. as already stated above, it is there for a reason, and any such impatience with it just has to be put up with.xz"
"lol, professional corp thiever? not supported.would support the kick vote though, but as soemoen pointed out, it may be pretty pointless."
"definitely not this. you recruit someone without screening 'em properly, you get to deal with the consequences. had it happen to me before - it sucks. i dealt with it and i should have screened the guy better."
"what he said. and i don't see a proposal. recommend moving this thread."
"moved to features and ideas."
"as the title says, when is the next csm meeting with ccp scheduled for?is there going to be one this summer?edit: woops, just found my answer. was looking in the wrong forum.sorry."
"have you tried using a smartbomb against them? it works out pretty well. you might have to gimp your cookie cutter set up to fit one occasionaly but it pays off if you run into ecm drones. theres nothing wrong with ecm drones, the problem lies with in the pilots setups."
"tba or not, csm3 is hard at work throughout the eve universe -making sure that the player base is well represented no doubt. :)csm3 rocks!(note: the screenshot was captured on/at 20090621173114 and was only modified to obscure folder names and illustrate that all folder members were listed.)"
"haha you set everybody blueeve account security proposal"
"meetings would also seem to go faster if the proposed issues were well-thought through, affected more than 1% of players and had workable solutions. then csm members might be arsed to look at the threads and stuff.questions in meetings are never redundant- it just shows how unimportant some issues are to the majority."
"where did that come from?"
"what's at issue is ownership. your wife cannot take a hit from something she does not own.wrecks are community property.further, we can debate the symantics of how much you gain from wrecks. the bottom line is you make a lot without the wrecks.its called greed when you want what you dont own."
"what galmarr said. wrecks are floating piles of scrap that are only useful to people who've trained salvaging and have a salvager fitted at the moment. you can't own a criminal (rat) wreck.if anyone is going to \"own\" the wrecks of the rats ships, it should be concord, the police.... if people really have a problem with ninja salvaging, they should really just train salvaging higher and learn to salvage faster."
"obviously there's some elitism in eve. i'm sure everyone here has seen posts by people sneering at the \"carebears\" some people actually seem to actively dislike industrialists/mission runners/miners which i've always found a bit confusing.so yes, i think there is a great deal of elitism on the part of some of the more pvp obsessed. most of the player base is fine, but there are a few that seem to think that just because you prefer mining and manufacturing to high-stakes combat most of the time, your must be a gutless degenerate."
"hello everyone,i'm starting this topic after searching around the forums and finding no recent posts by the csm about the igb (in-game browser).this thread is targeted mainly at third-party application developers (programmers who write stuff for the eve). but it needs the support of the general community, because developers are a minority and we get little feedback from ccp.my issue regards mainly the slow render time of the igb. the igb is an excellent concept that brings forth many possibilities. there is already a lot that can be done to improve gameplay without having to add any other functionality to the igb. however, the horrible render time prevents the browser from actually being useful since players decide not to use it because it is so slow. (fact)i have started writing a paper which describes basic functionality to improve the overall game experience in eve on an alliance level. if you read it you will get an idea of what is possible with the igb.for me, gameplay in eve was great at the start. but once you start getting bigger and approach a certain critical mass, of people, you need to start being smart about the way you do things. the only way to get a large group of people to focus and do things the way you think will work, is if it is easy and clear from the start. to do that one needs to improve communication.the igb isn't the only way to improve overall gameplay. the ui itself could have several little things added to it, which will reduce the amount of little things a pilot needs to do to play the game. take for example fleet management...fc is leading a fleet and get a report of several targets in the next system. he has recently given everyone a break however. he would like to know how many people are available to engage the enemy... so he asks for x'es. now the fc can get a general idea, but if he'd like to engage with smaller numbers or whatever... he'd probably like to know what everyone is flying.why not improve this with a ready check?another case, fleet is gathering somewhere... why not have a counter for how many friendlies or enemies there are in local? why is the \"fleet members in space\" stuff in the maps (universe and solar) not working properly either?i have mentioned mostly combat related issues here, but people's frustrations apply also to science and industry. there are many areas which would benefit from improvements to the api, ui, and igb. improvements in gameplay can come in the form of thirdparty applications which developers are happy to program.ccp has said they will fix or replace the current igb for over 2 years now. i think its about time the igb be put on the \"bug\" or issues list. even if its working, its not working as intended.ccp, i'm sorry... but you need to wake up! a lot of workload could be taken off of you if you simply made it easier for us to do stuff. and we would do it for free! as we have in the past, and will continue in the future. your competition is ahead of you in this area and you don't seem to care much, which is a real shame.also, those of you who have made it this far down my post... please sign this thread started by the #eve-dev guys on irc.coldfront.net"
"one of the pieces of information the csm got out of ccp at the first meeting a year ago is that the igb is slated for demolition and replacement, and i believe that they said that was planned as part of the whole \"eve facebook\" project. i don't know the timeline on that, but i'd wager there's a reasonable chance of it being the core of the winter expansion this year. i want to see this happen, of course, but i'm pretty sure it's already in the works."
"to be honest i'd rather have my own social networking site working inside the igb. there's a valuable amount of information to be gathered from it."
"i believe that there will still be an igb after the changes, it just won't be the same junky one we have now."
"please do something about the font size"
"pretty please, with sick of going cross eyed on top."
"indeed"
"would be awesome to see this by the next patch."
"i'm happy to listen to you if you give a legitimate reason for your support- but 90% of the supporters in this thread have given no reasonable response to its criticisms."
"no u !!!11eleven!1!11!!one!111seriously, if you've read everything then you must at least have read two or three points which made some decent sense. if you're familiar with flying af's anyway. i point fingers and jump to conclusions, cause i own a few af's thus it is my right to do so... im awesome, you guys are stoopid! noone is blaming anyone, learn to read."
"what arguments have i failed to address?"
"when i go face to face with ccp later this year you can be sure that i will share some choice words about pos with them"
"/signedthe current pos system is extremely disappointing. permissions are convoluted, the actual poses just look like floating junk, and the majority of modules are worthless.there's 41 pages of support on the original idea thread. tells you something."
"this thread being little over a year old with 21 pages and almost 400 out of the ~ 560 posts are support posts with the thumbs up, and i'm willing to bet around 100 of the non-support posts are from jinx, myself and a few others who have lobbied this post for the past year. now that says something, it says that its wanted, and not only wanted, but wanted by most everyone that bothers to click post on this thread. other then capital posts show me one active post that has that kind of support. ccp the players want this, and if we could get every one that plays the game to log onto the forums and read it, im willing to bet that at very least 3/4s of the players would support this."
"bump"
"/supportedthat would be a good thing to start with."
"bump.rsd need fix!"
"is it so that ew should only be used on ew ships? boost rsd instead of just the ships!"
"signed"
"supported"
"./agreed! mainly on the mom topic- in some way they need a buff, dont care if its tank/dps/or even rring ccp! - fix our moms!!!"
"is my thoughts on this"
"100% supported."
"ok let's look at some numbers:_________________________________________________________________an iteron 5, with 5 expanded cargohold ii's, unrigged, lv 5 skills- probably the most common sort of setup and the sort of setup we would look to to find potential exploitable situations25270 cargoholdfilled with giant secures, you get3900+3900+3900+3900+3900+3900+3900+3900+1270=32470 cargoafter the buff, with a straight 30% increase you would get32851 cargo(or, if you want to be really picky and not give a bonus to that extra bit of cargo that couldnt hold giant cans anyways you would get)32470 cargo-if you were carrying two cruisers with the old setup, now you can carry three-you can carry four instead of three large control tower. assuming you leave the fuel at home.-you can carry three whole capital modules instead of two-hauling things like 5-100m3 sized modules, pos fuel, and other things that could otherwise be fit evenly in a divided cargohold will not be affectedand, heres the most extreme possible case i can think of to try exploiting this change:iteron 5 with expanded cargohold ii's and two t2 rigs and 1 t1 rig for cargo max skills:41848 cargo currently3900+3900+3900+3900+3900+3900+3900+3900+3900+3900+3900+3900+3900+2848=53548 cargo divided up with cansafter buff54402 cargo or53548 cargo depending on whether you bonus the leftover space or notit's pretty big, but it's still not going to overthrow the freighter for hauling really big items, and it's really not any bigger then it was before except all that giant secure can bull**** was removed. if for some reason someone owns this and not a freighter, they can haul 5 instead of 4 capital components. or even one battleship when they could not before. but why they would do this and not use a freighter is beyond me._________________________________________________________________the question is, how commonly does someone haul really, really big items in an iteron? the only real buff is when carrying those sorts of things, and the iteron cant even carry very many of them in the first place. if you are hauling craploads of really big items, in an iteron, then you are doing it wrong.while this may be a boost to people who can afford lots of big items but not freighters, this would solve logistical problems when freighter pilots want to divide up their cargo in increments smaller then 100k. i don't think there is any way to do that currently short of using a courier mission. it would also take away some amount of frustration from pos fuelers, as currently they are forced to divide up their cargo in 3900m^3 sized chunks. and remove all the daily crap one has to go through when managing their cargo space and using containers to do so, whether you are using iteron or battleshipsalso while i doubt many people also hold some of the views mentioned earlier in this thread i might as well address them:-giant secure containers dont cost a lot of money. they can be reused forever anyways.-the database load will be shifted instead to more items showing in cargo, away from mass packaging and repackaging of giant secures. and repackaging giant secures with tons of items in then. i really dont think its much load either way. -im of course not sure how much work it would take on ccp's part. but the code is lready there for freight containers and they might be able to re-use it for giant cans so they can finally go into freighters"
"i can't imagine how this is possibly true but if it is then i can't support this even though i like the idea."
"for the network geeks, ip-restrictions!"
"ok as long as it is not mandatory."
"a note under corp. history would not be a bad idea. something along \"clone under new management\" or something. nothing more as it would breach privacy."
"post-apoc probing is awesome! but as with most significant changes to games, it needs some tweaking to reach it's full potential.problems & proposed solutions:1) probe / signature visibilityissue: often, having multiple probes &/or spherical signatures overlapping makes it nearly impossible to see through the mess of patterns. solution: change the patterns on spheres in the probe interface to something more translucent, or better yet, allow players to customize their own colors/patterns from a drop down menu.2) probe maneuverabilityissue: it's not as easy as it could be to move probes to where you want them- the cube & arrows method works /ok/, but it could stand to be a lot better, and a lot less frustrating.solution: - clicking a probe selects it, and control-clicking probes selects multiple- shift-clicking and dragging probes drags all active probes, while control-clicking and dragging drags only selected- players have the option of designating hotkeys to move selected probes in a specific dimension- ex: holding the x key allows selected probes to move in the x dimension, y in the y dimension, and z in the z dimension3) interface improvementissue: 'analyze' and 'recover active probes' buttons are right next to each other, leading to frustration when you click the wrong onesolution: add a confirmation box (the can be disabled by players) to recovering probesthoughts?"
"this guy looks legit."
"all nice, sensible changes. supported."
"supported"
"meh, i don't really see what all the fuss is about (and yes, before you ask, i do scan for stuff).that said, anything that makes any part of the ui easier to use gets a vote from me.supported."
"admittedly, none of these changes are a huge priority, but for the most part, they're quick fixes that certainly wouldn't hurt :)"
"supported!"
"ok, this looks good, you have my support for this."
"highly connected with the issues on usability / colour sensitivity. supported in full."
"sounds good. the cube and arrows method is similar to vector maneuvering for cad and digital design software but the arrows seem to be too close to the box most of the time to grab easily. so sometimes you end up grabbing the probe and not the arrow and screwing up things."
"what about allowing jump freighter to jump to hi-sec?"
"i find the shortcut keys to toggle drones between agressive and passive stance to be unreliable. there is no notification anywhere of what stance they are in. there is no button to click to toggle this either. we need some kind of interface tool to know what stance they are in and toggle it by clicking something. that is all.thank you,cosah"
"supported.and while we're at it, can we make my damned agressive drones freaking aggressive? nothing irks me more than launching my drones after some belt rat starts shooting me and having them just fly around me in circles like a bunch of overexcited metallic puppies."
"drones need a lot of fixes and improvements, but ccp don't care.or maybe it's too complicated and they are not capable to do it."
"i forgot about this whoops, we'll get it next meeting"
"i would also like to know as well as the already stated questions if there will be any plans on expanding/escalating the faction war into the higher security rated systems being alot harder to take but larger reward (if possable) to make this actually feel like a full blown out war because as it stands, it feels like fw has gone of the map, i some times forget there is ment to be a war on as its in an area of low sec that most people would not be interested in other than pirating and the people actualy in fw"
"sounds like it should be good........ oh wait..... it was just for a summer press-release and a lil wow recruiting.... not really a feature at all, just some marketing."
"indeed"
"no brainer - support"
"i would like to see the fitting between the different sizes balanced in such a way that fitting the med version on a frig or fitting the large on a cruiser or bc would be possible but with extreme downsides, making such a tactic very risky but use full under the right circumstances"
"you could just make them % based like rigs... (or just make them rigs)tentative support anyway as i am drone *****"
"supported"
"this would sound reasonable suggestion but this obviously opens doors for myrmidon mk ii and ishkur of pwnage et cetera. drones should be balanced as weapon system before adding stuff like this, or maybe at same time. not before.some extra drones might not seem a problem when you are afk shooting npc's in hi sec but when you take ship into pvp even one extra drone might be very annoying.also currently there's no \"drone specialists\" everyone is drone specialist. they have to be. even in \"non-drone\" ship your drones do remarkable amount of dps."
"indeed"
"include remote tracking boosting, sensor boosting, and anything else that provides a positive remote effect."
"actually, they do. i personally stopped playing eve for over two years, and a year ago i just got up, re-opened both my accounts and have kept them going ever since.i can tell you right now if i re-opened my accounts and they were gone, i would not have come back to eve.i support a flag that says something like \"inactive\" if the character hasn't logged in for six months or so. i do not support erasing of characters."
"i said ccp's database. not a microsoft sql server that you may/may have no used. i don't care if its the same, how its setup is more than likely different from anything you might have worked on. quit talking. your not ccp's expert on their hardware. quit trying to make us believe that you know its a \"simple fix\" because it probably isn't. this issue isn't that high-up there anyway. please drop this already."
"actually william any sql data base administrator worth anything could do this is less than half a day. i wont go into how i know and what i know as its obvious you dont have a clue.to the others re-cancelling or removing accounts i concede and i accept is a bad idea.but i did like the flagging idea.you may ask why anyone would want this system?.1: i keep all the names of those i've been at war with and the corp they were in that war dec'd our corp/alliance. i do know i'm not the only one who does this. you might ask why? knowledge is power.eg: joe blogs corp war dec's you and it lasts for however long thats irrelevant. they go away then one day you get another war dec from a different corp but you receive intel that jimmy from joe blogs corp is in this new corp and you start the intelligence process again. but this time you have a little advantage because you already have the intel jimmys joined the corp so you check who from the previous corp who has joined this new corp. when you check the old corp only 2-3 members remain and you rightfully or wrongly presume that most if not all have joined this new war decn corp. you check your list and build the data base accordingly. the issue you have now is that this new pirate/merc corp has a bigger membership of say 130 and the last war decn corp had 75 but its been 6 months since the first war dec and most of that corp joined them 4 months ago. the issue now is you have no idea whos active whether youll be fighting a horde of 130 or what as half the 75 are now inactive. now you may say big deal its no issue but when youre facing multiple war decs and the numbers are way over 200 your present intel system of using your buddy list is useless. this is the issue if half of jimmys corp is inactive you dont know i doubt they even know. so it fills up your bud list with useless inaccurate intel.2: you got podded and you want revenge but you personally cant do anything about it because your new or cant pvp or whatever. so you go to a merc corp/alliance and lets say you pay the 100mil up front and maybe 100mil for the corpse. you inform them the isk will take you a few weeks to get as your trying to replace your lost ship too. they ask you can you use a locator agent you say sure and that'll cost you possibly another 10mil. now its been weeks maybe months since this incident happened but youre still sore about it and want revenge so you do all this. the mercs do their job and have their people camping the system waiting for this dude to log on and undock. however this guys subscription has expired and youve just wasted 210mil.with a flagging system at least you can find out if hes active and if so you could tie it in with locator agents so its a service with a cost as this will reduce people from using and abusing it."
"guess if you had done your own intel before hiring the mercs, you'd have seen that this guy isn't active and not spent the 210 million to begin with. or maybe you would have spent the isk because the account just lapsed right in the middle of contract negotiations and nobody would have had had time to realize that the pilot wasn't going to play anymore instead of just being offline a few days. oops. guess that wasn't so helpful after all.i would support 'inactive account' flagging only after x days/months of an inactive account (say 90 or 180 days). too many people still make use of the 'ghost mechanics' for multiple accounts still."
"make all stations death traps yeaahhhhdeath to undocking games"
"supported for the sake of logic.all hacs get their bonii for their primary dps, except the cases they get resist (eagle, sacri) or speed (vaga)... deimos is ok with mwd cap bonus, as it is useful in any case. but ishtar is unique to have a bonus that is utterly unnecessary. if this proposal seems to be unsupportable for you because vexor also has this bonus, then op is right, vexor should be also changed for anything more useful, because anything would be more useful than this now."
"problem is that vexor and ishtar are fine balance wise, i dont think they need a boost.btw boni isnt a word and will never be a word."
"sacrilige : )"
"drone mwd speed increase 5% per levelthis should also apply to the domi/sin"
"i wish it was to hybrid turret damage instead of mediums only. compared to the caracal/cerb, which gets bonus to any launcher it can fit."
"i like my ishtar the way it is. stay away./not supported."
"dont tempt me to go -10 again"
"/signed"
"totaly agree"
"drones need a lot of fixes, this one is very needed.or make them warp with the ship (why not? camera drones to it already)."
"supported, though balance has to be kept (or at least aimed:). it should just be your own (personal) drones to be able to get control over back, but your corp's/fleet's to avoid exploits. just imagine a domi in your fleet when getting into structure starting deploying and abandoning its drones for you to control, or a carrier doing the same.so with careful forethinking i support, otherwise it'll shortly turn out to be a bad idea."
"this doesn't need to be a skill or item, if all you want to do is recover your own drones after a disconnect, tbh. you can already reconnect to probes, and that requires no additional skills. granted probes aren't armed, but the point is valid.just give us a button that lets us reconnect to our own drones.all that aside, i like the idea of being able to reconnect to my lost drones, so i'll support this idea, for a skill only, not a module."
"i hate drone disconnect"
"can we pls get so that we can select multiple bpcs and such as well? producing off bpcs it's a lot of clickage etc, being able to select like 5 bpcs at once and have them run x times number of bpcs would be pretty nice."
"oh god, i knew nag was bad, but...oh god, that laser nag fit made me crack up at how hilariously broken the nag is."
"you realise this isnt accurate anymore since the changes to the nag?while it still has the downside of needing to train for both projectiles and missiles, imo that gets easily compensated by its upsides. it can now without problems compete with the other dreads and it is freaking vertical."
"range mods for missiles? 4 turrets on a naglifar because artillery projectiles sucks? how about, i don't know, uhm, ehh, just fix artillery?"
"op needs to be updated, or this post get locked or deleted."
"\"\"\"\"\"not later, not eventually, not never. fix them now.here is a good step in the direction of making them useful.regular drone damage bonus of 10-15% per level of carrier.regular drone speed increase of 20% per level, both mwd and normal speed.increase drone control range by 30km per level of carrier.all drones armor/shield/structure hp increase of 20% per level.ewar drone effectiveness increase of 5-20% per level.increased remote rep/cap transfer range bonus to 100% per level.increased calibration to be able to use 3 t2 rigs.\"\"\"\"\"agreed 100% \"moving in triaged is another thing\" but the ms should be changed \"buffed\" in some way. -rumor has it ccp may be making them more \"anti cap or pos friendly\" but i havint found any topics on that just yet, only in-game rumor."
"this just seems so weird when all other financial transactions (that i'm aware of) have no real limit in the size of the value.++support"
"lolthats funny vista."
"indeed"
"indeed.furthermore already fetched kms should be cached on the client and only new ones fetched. it appears that each time you go into your combat log everything is fetched with delay. also filters for displaying logs based on target name, system name, begin and end dates at least, going through the pages can be annoying if you don't have this stored elsewhere."
"i'm torn. i really enjoyed the 14 titan megabump with the stolen password"
"i support this idea. good one!"
"pos permissions need to be totally rewritten. current ones are not at all scalable, and not nearly granular enough.standings are probably a big part of that. taking it a step further, if i want to grant access to an alliance, but i don't like *thatguy* who's in the alliance because he's a notorious douchbag or something, i ought to be able to be able to tell the pos to shoot him any time he flies by. another step further *thatguy* needs access to a different pos, i oughta be able to allow him to access it.the standings thing seems like a partial solution, but i think it's also the only one we can realistically hope for in this instance. supported"
"passwords are great. say no to medium/large sized alliances. to the barricades. and stuff.i mean yeah. spies are probably not fun, but what they're going to steal then?"
"the following characters have been paid their isk for participation asof tuesday 23.jun 09 21:41 (gmt+1):warphan retep"
"supported of course.they did a major huge graphic expansion... without aa and hdr ingame... shame."
"looks reasonable(spare money for charity)"
"no arena"
"don't destroy our game with this kind of crap"
"completely agree with this. eve doesn't need to go the casual player route of world of warcraft. risk-less pvp destroys all that this game has going for it."
"i fully support this idea. there are so many avenues through which people looking for pvp can get it. adding a form of loss less/instanced combat cheapens then game.if you want to learn to pvp do it the same way everyone before you has; find a group of like minded individuals and start with t1 frigs and cruisers."
"oh, i didn't know that. i guess i'm not welcome here then. that's kind of sad really i'm really enjoying this game. ah well, i guess i'll submit a petition to get ccp's opinion.and here i thought the skill system was really good for casual players, as they don't have to play 23/7 in order to keep up with the rest of the players. so much for that then i guess since we're already discussing, i was thinking, if you can make other players suffer a loss via arena's, doesn't that resemble real pvp?maybe it's better if it is risk free. maybe that'll make players wonder what the point of arena's is? if you can make people suffer losses via arena's, then why bother risking your ship in a situation where you can potantially be outnumbered? no, i say, make it no risk, that way it won't cause people to stop pvp'ing \"for real\", as it would be very \"non-eve like\", and just wouldn't feel right.and btw, i would love it if it actually had consequences! but i just think it would be less than healthy for the game, and believe me, i have plenty of isk to burn. i just don't always feel like dumping it on some lame lowsec gang that takes five minutes to kill me because they fail to fit for dps."
"please delete"
"let's fix the search feature so we stop having four hundred threads about the same damned topic."
"i made a wiki page about this issue for next meeting. if there is anything that ought to be improved or whatever post about it, but dont edit the page:"
"mazz, i edited the categories as one of them isn't being used anymore.also, i'd personally split this into 2 seperate issues:1. public info regarding the character being transferred in the corp history and all previous evemail/buddies/petitions/etc. get deleted and any open petitions closed.2. move warnings/bans/etc. to account level rather than character level.*they really are 2 separate issues, and since both are being discussed in this thread, both meet the reqs for prior discussion.*i'm pretty sure warnings/strikes are account level already, but clarification from ccp would be nice."
"ok, i didnt know the thing about the category as ive just wholesale copied and pasted from another csm article :dill separate out the gm/forum warning if lots of other people agree with doing that, but i really dont see someone voting that down if they vote yes on the rest of the stuff in this thread. warnings getting transferred also fall under \"too much information being transferred\" and also mean ccp is sharing gm communication if the next owner discovers evidence of a previous warning.edit:if you are saying that because you actually plan to vote yes on one and no on the other i will split it up. same goes for any other csm person that thinks they will do that, just ask."
"i'd be in favor of mandating a character name change upon sale, with a tab on the character info sheet showing previous aliases (old names from previous sales)."
"while as an amarrian i'm sickened by the continual rebellion of our mimatar slaves, i find this proposal reasonable and i support it."
"see? it's so bad even the amarrians (detestable though they may be) agree. i support this as well. on the other hand, i suppose it makes cross-training to caldari and amarr that much easier."
"while the nag boost was quite nice....enough to make it superior to the phoenix imo, it was still not enough to make it worth training.i can be in a revelation significantly faster w/ almost equal skills between amarr and minmatar ships, and the nag is still...lacking somewhat.i know that it will never be the super pwn dread that some might like to see it as, but i suppose it's just that right now, there is really no reason to train nag over rev or moros, as there is no role it fills better. if u want tank, good range on your close range weapons and good damage, or just nice damage at great range, you go rev. the moros offers you superior dps at close range, nice dps at long range, and some very nice dps w/ it's drones out of siege (and in siege) to apply to sub capitals. the phoenix offers u the guarentee that you'll be the last dread shot on field, and your weapons hit at long range or short for the same damage, so you need not change out.what does the nag give you? the ability to do something one of the others do, just not as well? you can change weapon damage type? that's nice, but so does the phoenix w/ only slightly less damage, and you'll stay on the field a while to actually fire it. versatility? sure, your nag fit will be unique, just like everyone else's nag fit.i'll fly a rev and a nid. may not match, but at least the ships will both be sexy looking =pwell, at least the nag is vertical...."
"bump"
"this post has been cleared of inappropriate content.regards,the eve online moderation team"
"not supported. no gains just costs."
"moderated.applebabeit's obvious you haven't grasped the true nature of the assembly hall. it's a place where people get to present ideas, and then discuss them.see this is the discussion part. and frankly, if you can show me one reputable source that indicates that increased calculations does not increase server load, i'll gladly stop talking.note, reputable does not mean your best mate. i mean a reasonable technical journal.on another note, you haven't even begun to see me start to troll your uppity, ignorant ass. trust me, when i start to troll, there will be no doubt in anyone's mind."
"uzume. discussing the technical pros and cons of issues isn't a bad thing. just because we don't work for ccp doesn't mean we're idiots. its hardly difficult to figure out that this issue would be a nightmare for the servers.the suggestion is inherently flawed, and unneeded. you should stop insulting other people for raising perfectly valid suggestions. every single suggestion that comes through the assembly hall is scrutinized by the player base from a technical standpoint. stop insulting de'veldrin for doing something perfectly ordinary. your not helping your side of the argument."
"as line-of-sight is the only realistic mechanic to stop the whole blob-primary-dead-in-an-instant type of combat we have now i think it's a good idea. i just don't think it's workable given the other constraints, but i would dearly love to have it in-game."
"game changing and revolutionary."
"this, otherwise i could just wait for another mmo to do it first."
"you know the drill - please deposit your stuff care of me when you hit the trail, and try not to let the door smack your backside on the way out."
"mod, please."
"i'd like to bring it to the csm attention that fw suffers from a few serious bugs and exploits, and despite a lot of militia members reporting them, the issues are still not fixed months later. in fact a lot of the bug reports are completely ignored (they show as 'not filtered' for weeks, sometimes months), and do not get attached to defects.there are currently a few notable bugs/expoits:* cloak exploit (cloaking within range of the beacon no longer stops the timer)* timer exploit (a method to keep the timer running even after player leaves the solar system)* navy spawn loophole (method to prevent the faction navy from spawning in opposing highsec systems)ccp promised the csm in january that they take exploit petitions serious (after the pos scandal with their ignored petitions), but over three months after the cloak exploit was introduced in apocrypha, ccp still continues to ignore the petitions and fails to patch the exploits. ccp needs to formally state that the above are exploits and start banning the players that make use of these methods.the csm needs to examine ccps policies, and even contact internal affairs if they have to, as the situation is simply unacceptable."
"signed, all three should be fixed. cloak and timer exploit should just not be possible, and faction navy spawn mechanics should be completely revised."
"the timer exploit is the worst, because they can't even claim that's a feature. fix all 3 asap."
"contract accept (corp) needs moving away from closetrash it needs moving away form make active or propose lock blueprint.basically all the \"delete\" or \"cancel\" actions need to be separated, anything negative separated from positive.in uis for most software you'd put a horizontal rule between the divisions on drop-downs and place cancel buttons a good distance from ok buttons."
"this is a great example of a tiny, great proposal which should be put on an accelerated track and forwarded to ccp though a new, simple procedure."
"/signed"
"yeah, separate the \"good\" things from the \"bad\" things, maybe make them some submenus."
"has already been requested and ccp agreed ot change it as part of their ui revamp. read the minutes of the january meeting."
"unsupported.this would give the fleet that holds the field the power to censor any comedy fits their own fleet members had, while permitting the comedy fits of their opponents to be published."
"mazzilu, show your fuglyness and answer, how do you think people are aware of fotm setups? because people are generally clever or becaouse of killmails? alibud1 > wow... guys look at this setup from killmailalibud2 > wow thats actually quite nice!!11!1alibud4 > aye it is, lets copy it!111111alibud3 > yes!!alibud5 > yesyesyes we can be pr00oo too0!!!!1!1i am not surprised to see that you are also supporting self-destruction killmail. just because you are dependent on killmails to actually fitt your ships partially decent does not mean it is good game mechanics!"
"pos suck in all their forms.nothing in the system works from top to bottom."
"something needs to be done, certainly. when you get right down to it, this is a game, and every part of it should be fun, or challenging, or at least interesting. perhaps a more hands-on approach to pos deployment would work, still taking a similar (or slightly less) amount of time to assemble, but requiring the player to actually participate in the process aside from just 'online this module' and waiting."
"this is my #1 issue as i don't know if there's anyone in eve who has anchored as many towers as i have. if you're out there, i am so, so sorry.in any case pos issues have been brought up before many times, it's not a new issue, we all agree it's awful, and we don't need to argue about it any more. the best i can promise is to once again bring it to ccps attention and hope it sticks through repetition"
"queue? pos queue? who gives a **** about a queue?! just decrease the anchor and unanchor time and allow the onlinig, offlining, anchoring and unanchoring of several structures at the same time instead of \"one-at-a-time\"!"
"read the minutes from januarythis was raised with ccp already"
"sorry i cant support this, not only does the fact that shield tanked ships with a tackle still tank effectively as it is but the fact you have not really given any real solid ground for implimenting this new module at all, you have not done any research into this, if you gave some solid evidence to support the implimentation of sucha module i would probably support but untill then im sorry but i cant"
"shield tankers already dominate armor tankers with a 3 slot tank. dont give the armor tankers any more reason to whine please."
"station dock radii"
"that one is useless.i already raised an issue for a complete revamp of context menus. ccp doesn't want to touch them, because the complexity of it is so high and warrants a complete rewrite.i might also suggest pre-typing questions and answers, if you are just sitting there waiting anyways."
"^^ thatalso, please add: skill injection"
"already raised with ccp in january and is redundant"
"added zastrows/oz's topicsi also removed maz's show info/convo topic since it was discussed with ccp already. if you really want to you may bring it up again maz - but perhaps our time is better used on other issues :)"
"na leave it off, i didnt search much to see if it was redundant myselfedit:yeah i think everyone is doing that. last meeting still took a long time.hurr i hope divulging members' usage of copy and paste during meetings doesn't violate the nda"
"i personally dont like ninja salvager's but it's no real biggy for me as 9/10 i dont salvage anyway. but tchell i had an incedent the other day got dropped in on in a lvl4 missions at the start. i know how it's supposed to work let em salvage even if they loot dont worry about it. and the only thing you can do is warp out and the npc's will aggro the salvager. i did this like 10 times even dragged the screaming horde over to the salvager right on top of her. warped out came back and the npc's we're just sitting there and so was the salvager salvaging with no aggro at all. well tchell seems ccp has given into you lot and given you cart blanche on salvaging."
"oh and btw redsplat did suicide a heap of them the other day"
"i am always embarrassed to tell people stuff like this due to the response i might get:you have close to 50mil sp and you did what??!!?? you noob! (followed by laughter on vent)"
"was good meeting.cheers"
"i think he's talking about new internal market for corporation/alliance. it would allow selling stuff cheaper for corp/alliance members. handy in low sec/0.0 if you would like to sell stuff for decreased price only for corp members etc.i think original idea is that if you sell let's say kitsune for 20mil in 0.0 someone will come and buy it and resells it for 30mil :p if you had own internal market available it would stop people doing that kind of things.i have to admit doing corp contracts or other stuff like that is very cluymsy. not sure if corp market is good idea though. it takes away some possibilities with \"market pvp\"."
"god yes, supported.also hyphen and tilde look the same (- and ~)."
"/signed"
"the old effect was far better!you need a huge visual effect and a thunderous sound to accompany it!"
"/signed"
"don't even talk about this one! just do it!"
"/signed"
"how much more must we wait for such simple effect to be changed back, ccp?"
"bump, signed, come on, we all want it back"
"from a t2 frigate frequent flyer with a lot of experience and who doesnt use 3rd party rr, i'm maintaining af deserve a 4th bonus. ;p"
"having different views on acceptable pvp tactics somehow makes you more reputable? if you're implying that i only like afs because they have high resistances, and thus are excellent candidates for remote rep, you're wrong. while it's certainly a plus that 2 large remote reps can hold afs up against thousands of dps from battleships, i've only once that i can remember ever been remote-repped in my af, and it was an oneiros in corp that did it. coincidentally, had the blaster celestis i was fighting at the time been interested in something other than station games, it wouldn't have been necessary for my ishkur, which was setup at the time for mwd/rails to tempt him by getting within warp scram, and then blaster range necessitating remote rep.aleks- as long as we're being 'professional' let's keep things on topic. neutral remote repping has absolutely nothing to do with this thread- nor does remote repping in general. i still have yet to hear any counter-points to my previous arguments other than 'omg noob you cheeted at eve, clrly you hav no idea wat u r talking aboot'"
"when you do, if you bring up this idea, and i hope you do, could you please name it something other then the funky pos idea??"
"signed"
"supported"
"bump for this, any word from the bigwigs?"
"/supported"
"ahhhhhh you've changed sites........ update links?"
"sounds good."
"supported"
"i like the ideea"
"supported. give bo some love."
"this would definately put black ops bs on the map, increasing the demand by as much as 500% due to both the need to have them set up bridges, as well as all the merc corps needing their bs ops fleet for when you need absolutely positevely kill that jumpy mark."
"no. 1) they require regular cynos. allowing people to make regular cynos in hi-sec makes no sense rp wise(cynojammers etc) and opens up capitals into high sec (and restricting hi-sec cynos to jfs only would be very weird)2) jfs have a much larger jump range than the blackops, and would allow them to very quickly travel between trade hubs with huuuuuge amounts of cargo spacethe covert cyno change is intended to improve high sec combat, while leaving hauling largely unaffected."
"this is a great idea, really think it would give black ops the final boost they need. well maybe a gang bonus would help them greatly as they now seem to take on the role of covert gang leader"
"fw is getting boring since holding systems has no advantage whatsoever. also the reward is not as great as ratting. perhaps we can make plexing more worthwhile?"
"i've got it!!!we leave fw.get our locator agents.pod the csm over-and-over-and-over-and-over again."
"awesome, can i loot your wrecks?"
"it doesn't take much to suicide gank.so..... did you restate the question then proceed to vote against it?if you thought it should be restated then why not restate to something you can agree with?"
"my guess is the minutes have been malformed when they went into the wiki, you've quoted them elsewhere and they look like the player/delegate names have jumped 1 line down:taking that into account, it should read that we asked erik if he wanted to restate the issue (he brought it to the council, it was his choice) he did and restated it as being \"a request to give fw a higher priority\" which i then voted no to. sorry, i don't think fw should be higher priority than sov revamp or an industrial overhaul."
"question: what's in the works for fw?4 pages later....answer: we don't want to ask.so i guess this was the csm in action."
"i'm going to assume you haven't bothered to read that this issue was raised in meeting 3 not meeting 2 (which is what you were quoting, yes, that was a different issue) and you aren't just blindly raging on the forums. i know, i shouldn't assume, but hey if you're going to i might as well join the party."
"i left fw pretty quick, wasnt for me but i understand its role in eve and think its important, info !"
"in the early stages of your character(or any character you have) did you do every level 1 mission of your faction in an imicus by yourself?did you train all rank 1 drone skills up to 5 before any others?where you using t2 med drones before you had a bc?its the choices you make with your skills and the primary tactics you use that define your characteras for omber zombies comment, i think that they could be both modules and rigs, but making them % based would reduce there functionality and actually make them out of balance, can you see the hull expansion as % based when used on a ship like the domi?it would be to over powered in that situation, but then would be of no use on a frig and little use on most cruisersbalance with regard to quantity of drones needs to be set values rather then % based"
"signed"
"supported"
"it would be -very- useful if we could get some functionality built into the corporation member tab that directors and ceo could access (or maybe others who are granted role/access), that we could toggle specific skills, or a specific ship, and then we could get a list of everyone in corp who has the desired skill, or can pilot that specific ship. instead of having us get limited api from all members and having to do all the legwork manually, it would be a god-send to be able to get that function in game. a lot of members dislike sharing api, as they tend to be very guarded about people seeing their wealth and whatnot."
"as part of a complete corporate ui overhaul, i'd support this, since they're touching the code anyway.on it's own, it's really not necessary. just send out a corp mail requesting the information you need. not, it's not really convenient or up to the minute, but it's a quick and dirty solution until they finally get around to fixing the corp ui."
"part of my reason for asking is, if you have a large corp, or have members who are offline, or who don't read corp email regularly it can have a delay on getting the info you need.this is just a nice 'clean and neat' way to give corp leadership access to needed info without having to wait on members. some members may not realize they can fly some ships, so would not respond to such requests anyway."
"i would only support this as part of a change to make api data be provided to the corp on a voluntary basis. it should not be a free ceo power, it should only be as part of a scheme to allow players to give their corp better access to data if they so choose. that said, given the above caveats, this would be a great change."
"you make some good points. i'm still not convinced this needs to be done on its own, but i can definately see the utility. i forget sometimes that our corporation is actually more like a close knit circle of friends than anything else.i'll support the idea, but i would still like to see it done as part of a larger corporate ui overhaul."
"give them a spot on the mail."
"\"oh no, how can that be done! it will cause so much database lags - like if we posted killmail not only to final blower, but to everyone in killmail! this will never be done!\" (c) ccp & their fanboys."
"i despise people that try and claim they didnt have rr backup"
"also station undock points should be fixed so players cant position themselves in the graphic which prevents them to be bumped out."
"whole undocking should be fixed. if you fly relatively fast ship and you undock you never get a chance to undock since there's a timer which stops you when you stop the ship and you're blown into pieces before you can do anything.i know killing people at undock is fun. been there done that and stuff. a lot. but it doesn't make any sense.i support the whole idea of making undocking less ******edly suicidal at all stations and outposts."
"this, although i believe you'd be hard pressed to do so with some station models."
"it's always a funny question. while wikianswers gives:\"originally bona but nowadays bonuses is acceptable.\"it's a bit funny that the plural for bonus is boni (masculine), and bona is the plural for bonum (neutral? non-sex) in latin, from which language this word came from first of all. so let's forget about wiki answers as it can be edited by anyone, including octopodes who normally can't make the difference between cacti and fungi. :) ***"
"yeah, just a button i think, but a skill would work to.supportedtheres no real balance issue here that i can see, it just needs to be put on ccps to-do list"
"omg big support!!"
"come on, having new icons would be nice, oh and i just thought about mindliks aswell: those things looks like some kind of medals tbh"
"anyway you can no more leave an abandoned litter of drones than you can leave kittens abandoned at the roadside. it would be cruel and heartless."
"i cover at least 50% of my tech ii drone demand from the remains of the battlefields.no matter how many drones i could possibly lose that way, it would never make up for what i gain from it. i like it."
"it's fine the way it is. if you lost em and i find em then they are mine to keep and love."
"not support."
"i'm not for this idea as stated, but i would be for some sort of system where your drones go back in your drone bay before you warp to the random safe spot automatically.troll"
"this was the only comment you could make - and you based it on a post from 3 weeks ago?i get it. you were announcing what you were doing. right, that makes sense."
"no, i hit submit too fast and edited the actual response. the \"troll\" part was just a funny response to the \"whine thread\" post of draconis..."
"yeah, something like batch jobs,select 3 identicaly bpcs and automaticaly spread them on the available lines..signed for industry/pos/labs rework."
"it seems by the minutes that a large part of the csm is treating this as an ego vehicle and voting down issues they don't understand without any attempt to get a valid idea of the situation or come up with a genuine opinion.most were likely elected through the voting sites xss security hole so i propose they all get sacked and we start again."
"not a joke."
"ok which csm member wants to take this one upi got my alliance to vote me in and purchased ****loads of pet votes while running a campaign of posting pictures of myself. no xss flaw, so it's legit."
"well that confirms the ego vehicle thought...."
"alleging that the site had a security hole that affected the results is a bold claim. the results were pretty much exactly what i expected, and pretty much what everyone else expected too. the voter turnout was in line with past results, not spiking as one might expect if revoting was possible. precisely which of the elected csmers do you think got in on the security hole? the head of the third-biggest alliance in the game? the chosen candidates of the biggest? the training director of the alliance with the most ex-members in the game? the well-respected secretary from the last csm? the candidates who won all had large and obvious constituencies, and they got vote totals in line with what those constituencies would be expected to be able to produce. also, while i haven't always been pleased with csm decisions over the last year, i have generally been impressed with the candidates. of the 21 people who have sat on the csm, there has been maybe 2 who have failed to give their position the respect and dedication it deserves, and i'm not sure who the second would be. some have been crazy, some have overstepped their bounds, some have been more than a little whimsical about the process, but when push comes to shove, they take it seriously and do their jobs. i don't always agree with the decisions that they make, but that's democracy - you don't win them all. don't attack their motives just because you think that they made a bad call."
"there are reports of people who went to vote however they couldn't because the system believed they had already voted.the csm vote form features no confirmation or one-time security tokens in the fields. meaning it can be exploited by luring an eve player to another website while they're logged into the eve site.whoever exploited it managed to keep the numbers within realistic bounds.this exploit could go some-way to explaining the higher then usual voter turn out.of course some of it was more ppl voting, some was ppl voting without their knowledge."
"voter turnout in csm1 was 11%+, voter turnout in csm2 was 8%+, voter turnout in csm3 was 9%+. that's not higher than usual, that is usual. regional distribution was entirely similar to what it had been before(bar exceptions like hungary's 40%+ in csm2, given that tusko wasn't running for csm3). i'm not a security expert, but just from simple analysis of the results, i see no reason whatsoever to believe that anyone cheated their way on."
"there's goons on the csm they musta cheated"
"c"
"the reason many of the csm candidates were voted in was because of alliances backing them up.just a larger e-peen contest."
"cool story bro, which issues are you referring to? i believe the one gentleman who was trying this on wasn't even elected. i can't remember who it was off the top of my head but he was nowhere near getting elected.really the distribution of votes and who got in (aside from myself) is nothing particularly out of whack with what was expected.ps supporting this motion.please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i really think that most candidates legitimately got elected and are really trying to address the issues and represent the people's views, rather than using their office as a vehicle to further their ego.larkonis, however, is a blatant cheater and csm egomobile wielder who needs to be removed from office for the sake of the people and ccp's dignity."
"supporting this topic. maybe in the revote i can break the 3000 votes mark. only 40 more votes, together we can do it!<U+FFFD>_<U+FFFD>"
"i, indeed, take the the op seriouslly... i'm honest!"
"ill support cos i think the topic is so dumb it might just work"
"this dierdra vaal girl was always fishy for me. how the hell she get elected without posting her nude pics. i am all for reelections."
"get rid of the csm and full stop.if you want to know what people think/want, just make polls."
"yeah. eve shouldn't be spreadsheets-online, but polls-online."
"i totally agree. there should be a revote.i suggest ccp takes the next 5ish months to thoroughly eradicate any suspicion of potential exploit in the code, and then we can vote and get rid of these members! any less time and doubt could still be there, so 5 months should be right..."
"on one hand this is just the galactic senate for a game of internet spaceships. on the other is csm supposed to mean something for the players (and there's quite a number of them).csm delegates shouldn't participate in threads like this one because it does hurt the status of their position and the supposedly special status of the assembly hall forum.edit: typofail"
"what concerns me is the number of (joking or otherwise) csm reps that supported this idea. i mean, whatever, it's just internet spaceships, but really? this is the sort of representation we have?"
"the support is on the same level of seriousness as the original poster's idea..."
"politicians aren't allowed a sense of humor damnit! you must have seen that in the application brochure, i'm sure."
"i'm just wondering why erik and avalloc are missing the party."
"i'm betting op is involved in fw and feeling rather bitter.in any case, when someone disagrees with your opinion attacking their judgment and whitewashing the issues discussed as shot down by bias or ignorance isn't productive- or rational.that kind of verbal attack belongs to the period prior to voting, that is if everyone isn't too busy smurfing votes and exploiting clearly larkonis possesses some form of mind control device hidden away on his skull shaped volcanic pacific island. wallpaper your house in fine mesh chickenwire, its the only way to be safe. not supporting as ccp is such a bunch of numptys they might take it seriously! hi zymurgist ank wont let him, or he feels marginalized and the latter is busy being a goonie goon"
"i know there's a forum post but it's not as good as my idea. basically, as it stands right now, the level of anchoring you have is only relevant for certain modules and the penultimate level for starbase defense management. we all know that anchoring and onlining a pos is boring grueling work. i propose to meld the two together. for each level of anchoring, you can put 1 pos module in the queue for a total of 6. this would encourage more people to train anchoring which would segue into more pos gunners to make pos fights more interesting. it's a simple fix that alot of people want and it just makes sense."
"it's been proposed before, many times. as you say, there are other, similar threads on this forum. add to them, don't post a new one just because you have an idea that's only 90% redundant."
"so the csm says that we need to counter-wardec in fw and that should be our only option.it's cheap after-all, and with the masses of rewards in fw it should be easy to spend isk on nothing.so i propose that the npc corps involved in fw for amarr have a war-dec added for star fraction alliance.seeing the solution is counter-decs..... then there we go, we'll just ask for every npc corp to get war-decs on a case-by-case basis.easy solution eh!please actually think before you vote."
"agreed."
"so....... i'm in the same \"alliance\" as everyone else in fw.however i can't help them in a fight.does that make sense to the 0.0 clowns now?if i could wardec ds1 without the rest of goonswarm would the mechanic be changed?"
"i heard clowns, were you talking about me? or goons?"
"you're the good kinda clown :-p"
"supporting this."
"i knew you'd agree :-psilly that we can have a war-dec that ppl can't actually join in on, regardless of what gang they might be in with what wardecs associated with it."
"seriously man, learn to form a proper post before you continue this nonsensical spamming of the boards. you're not making any sort of actual arguments, you're just throwing around emo. look, you think the csm made a bad call. for that matter, i tend to agree. but you're not going to get anyone onside with malformed ranting, half-assed character assassination, and board spamming. step back, take a deep breath, and come back when you can make a coherent argument and present it sensibly. you'll do your cause, and my brain, a world of good."
"i'm just reflecting the nonsensical debate the csm meeting featured.it's a symptom of me deciding this whole process is a complete joke from beginning to end.not a single issue of note came out of that last meeting, a few suggestions on changes to ships, nothing major, nothing real, nothing that was important to the constituency. all we got was the weakest no-brainer issues of the lot."
"actually..... all i'm doing is following the csm's advice.they with their complete understanding of fw decided that we can counter wardec and that was our only option.so..... here is the proposal for the counter war-dec.all we need is the npc corps to counter war-dec like the csm has told us and their solution will be perfect.what's that? their solution doesn't work? you can't wardec? oh right."
"cool story bro.as part of the proposed motion npc corps involved in fw wouldn't have been able to involve themselves anyway. it is a shame that the proposal was voted down.however... protip: fw factions are not alliances. i'd consider them more conglomerates of corporations who have been issued letters of marque by respective space governments and the like to disrupt the enemy factions only. when you sign up to fw you sign up to fight an opposing faction, not anyone who wants to pick a fight with some other band of scallywags who are loosely operating under your faction's flag. free counter decs for individual corps to be used to support each other would have been nice but it was voted down.instead of pointlessly trolling these boards you could make some constructive posts, communicate with the other csm reps or perhaps even run yourself next time."
"dude, battlesmith, seriously. since you're doing the effort of writing tons of stuff on here anyways, might wanna use that time/energy to get some constructive stuff across instead of releasing every random brainfart you have on these forums..."
"you could ofcourse stop hiding in npc corps, form your own fw corp and wardec star fraction.but i guess that would require like... actual effort and stuff. i can see how that would be a problem."
"frankly, the op in this thread was so badly constructed, i have no idea what the actual thread is about. something about war decs and npc corps, with a side order of faction warfare is about the best i can come away with."
"i've never done the fw thingo but i do live in 0.0. in zero you join a corp/alliance so you become blue to a greater player base. after having discussions with people involved in fw why would you even be in a corp as there's absolutely no point."
"me as well."
"i'm seeing a lot of people in this forum bash good ideas because they *think* that their implementation would have some sort of negative impact on the eve servers, or that it would take too much time for ccp to develop, when in fact, they really have no clue whatsoever.as far as i know, this forum is a place where we can vote on the importance of issues and proposals, so that the csm can bring them to ccp in their meetings.it's not up to us to define if those proposals can't be done, and how they would impact the performance of the servers.so if you are a qualified database administrator, programer or system administrator and you want to suggest how something could be done based on your profesional experience, go right ahead. but if you don't have any technical background in any of that, then don't pretend to know what can't be done or that something would be bad for the game's performance and concentrate on the idea itself.in other words, don't ditch an idea that may be good, just because you don't think it's possible to do.for example: if someone suggest they would like to have a \"missile alert\" warning blinking when a missile is incoming, don't say \"this is a bad idea because it would require too many calls to the database\". instead, vote on the idea itself, disregarding how it could technically be done. would you like a missile lock warning or not? (this example is not quoted from any post, it's completely fictive)i know how i may sound arrogant or condescending to some of you, but i know many of you will also support what i just said."
"omg - you're still posting. *facepalm* why hasn't natural selection gotten you yet?"
"this post is a bad idea on the op's part, it takes up a few precious bytes on ccp's forum server. think of the hamster's dammit!"
"i posted this in another thread, but it bears repeating here, because you keep brining it up.apparently i was too late. you beat me to the again."
"ya know, i'm starting to think this guy is a troll. if he is, he's effin brilliant. reminds me of this guy"
"posted in another post, but it goes here as well...to provide reasoned discourse means you need concrete arguments. saying something can't be done because you think it would be bad for the game's performance when you don't know how it would even be done in the first place is not a concrete argument. that is my whole point, nothing more. if someone can prove that something would be affecting performance too much and how it would, now that would be concrete. however, i believe the arguments given to the csm should be more in line with how the topic would affect the game itself (good or bad), not the server backend.that's all fine with me, we should indeed explain why we're for or against a topic. it's better to do so than to simply say \"no\" and that is what constructive feedback consists of. the problem is when you (not you particularily, but people in general) say no only because you think the idea would cause problems in the server backend, when in fact, you don't have a clue how the backend works or how the suggestion would be technically implemented."
"some ideas - such as this thread only deserve a \"no\". really doesn't get more elaborate than that sometimes.mods, can we get a lock on this thread since it's not evolving into any constructive purpose? also, dual/cross posting is starting to occur."
"i have noticed some cans have been anchored in random places honoring eve player's who have died in real life. our alliance just recently lost a member ( toqua). i was thinking if there was a central system , where a corp or alliance could pay isk to concord or whoever to put a memorial statue with the passed on players name ... would be cool. maybe could have a selection to choose from. details to stop false memorials would have to be thought out. i believe the eve player's of the past should be remembered and there eve need a place to sit and remember the good times. thank you for your time and please support this."
"i'm down with that. a nice thing for those people that were good friends with peeps in game. not knowing any of the recent that have passed, i can say i would like a spot to remember someone who was a good bud in game if ever they were to pass away."
"no. you don't need to comfort yourself, and show that you loved your e-buddy by doing anything more than remembering them or celebrating them however you want to privately. nothing is stopping you from naming a \"memorial\" outpost or something for them if your members need it for some reason. anything more is wasted developer time."
"i support this idea."
"no. if you want to remember your fallen comrades, write a blog or make a website. the game doesn't need a virtual cemetary."
"no. when characters die, they get ic funerals, parades and whatever you want to give them. when players die they get real funerals and there's a lot you can do to make sure they are remembered. write on the forums, create a website, name an outpost after them.just don't ask the rest of new eden to put up with an emo internet graveyard. there's plenty of those around on the web.sorry for your fallen comrade but you shouldn't expect online games to turn into memorials every time they lose a player."
"evil fork that i am, i must concede to your spoony ways on this one. here's an idea - start a corp that charges people a small monthly fee for maintaining a plot in a graveyard (i know before they started wiping cans they had one going for ic corpses). all you'd have to do is check each can every month and reset the timer on it. possibly place items of \"sentimental value\" (this was his favorite blaster!!). it's a potentially viable idea. i haven't thought it through, but then again, i don't care so much."
"this truly is a good idea. if there really is a demand for this sort of service, we bear witness to the birth of a new profession. and the entire experiment stays within the boundaries of the existing mechanics."
"supported"
"ccp can generate a public/private keypair and sign all killmails, then systems which use killmails (i.e. killboards) can verify this signature and remove any possibility of faking killmails."
"i can't imagine ccp would want to add this much database lag for a fairly minor purpose. api keys already result in verified killmails."
"omg. it's a killmail, not your bank account. it's not that important."
"database lag? wtf is that supposed to mean? would you people stop talking our of your hat when you clearly don't know how databases work?do you really think the api server is polling the live database directly? are you nuts? the api data is not only cached, but it's also in another server that has nothing to do with the live database. what the op suggested is actually quite easy to do. all they have to do is add the unique id in the killmail text itself. then create a new api page (not very hard to do since they already have the interface), that will authenticate the unique killmail id. you would pass it the id, and it would return the killmail info.most killboards don't ask for the api key, because in order to see killmail info, you need the full key, which also gives access to see wallet transactions and other sensitive data. for that reason, they usually just ask for a copy/paste of the killmail and parse the text in it, which is why it's easy to fake right now.so i think the op had a great idea, but it should rather be a new api system completely. that way you'd only have to submit a killmail id to the killboard site and the site would import the killmail info from it.some people are very competitive and having possible fake info in killboards is just not right. what's the point of having a killboard to track kills and deaths if anyone can fake it?"
"i don't care what servers, databases, and other stuff is used. some computer owned by ccp has to generate a secure code for every killmail, and respond to requests for verification any time any killboard requests confirmation. it's not jita on a sunday afternoon. but it's not free either. it'd take time to implement, system resources to maintain, and the functionality is already in place. if you want a verified killboard, demand api keys, or code your own killboard software. if you wanted to make a proposal for introducing customizable partial api keys, i'd be all for it. let us have a killboard key for griefwatch, a science jobs key for meep, and a pos fuel key for your in-house pos tools. that'd be a far better way of doing this than this public-key stuff, and more likely to happen. but we already have secured killmails - i see no need for an entirely new system to do something we already have."
"what the hell are you talking about!??? there is already an api system, all i'm asking is to add one page to it. the api servers are already polled all the time by many sites for api info, how would this one be causing suddently more of that mystical lag you're talking about?there's more than just one api page for your information, see the full list here:"
"we've already debunked that you don't know nearly as much as you think you do. i think it'd be a great idea if you'd stop trying so damn hard. nobody cares how self-important you are. that said, you're right, in that this wouldn't be too difficult to implement and the \"lag\" that would be coming from the db would be inconsequential. i think the hardest part would be figuring out the politics of a new api system and what it would give access too. frankly, i'd rather just plug in some kind of api key that could regularly pull down an api key from a cronjob or something - kinda like what's implemented now, except without giving up my full api key. mostly just cause i'm lazy and don't want to plug in kill ids every time i nuke something.this would also give room for the existing killmail system to continue functioning, so that the third party apps that are out there aren't rendered useless, but killboard owners or third party apps can have the option to include copypasta killmails or require a key.op has a good idea, but needs more homework before i'll support."
"actually, no api changes are needed, all that's needed is a 'trusted' host that generates a digital signature for the killmail and appends it. it's a cpu only task using public key cryptography.here's the rough guide:1) ccp generates a public/private keypair, and publishes the public part while keeping the private part secret.2) when a killmail is generated the system uses the private key to generate a signature, the signature is a blob of machine readable hexadecimal which will survive cutting and pasting. 3) when the killmail is pasted into a third party system they can decode the signature using the public key and verify that the killmail is authentic and has not been altered. there is no need to contact ccp servers because the only people that can generate a signature that matches the public key is the holders of the prvate key - that is ccp.if you want more details go and read this."
"lol - i think the rest of us are going a few steps further than we needed to go =p. for just km verification, this is a good idea. that said, i think the way kms are distributed in general needs to be looked at eventually and that this is a step in the right direction./supported"
"how exactly have you \"debunked\" that humm? nobody has yet to technically prove me wrong on database concepts and the inner workings of the eve api.not that i really need to justify myself you people like you, but my real life job consists of php/mysql development and i'm also working with ms sql databases (both managing and administering). i'm also scripting various things in perl and other languages. i've been doing that for 5 years, all that for a large company called cgi. i've also worked with the eve api quite a bit already, and used the official data dumps several times. i don't need you to tell me i do know what i'm talking about.but this is besides the point. my point is that i'm tired of seeing people bash an idea in the assembly hall because they \"think\" it would be bad for the database performance or that it would take too much time for ccp to do, when in fact, they have no clue how it would impact the environment and how much work it would require.it's not up to us to decide if it can be done or not, our role in this forum is to vote on the suggestion itself, and leave the implementation part to ccp if they like it."
"they don't even need that. each kill already has a unique killid, which is the primary key of its record in the database. i know this because of what is already shown in the xml using the current killlog api page. all they have to do is print that id in clear text in the killmail itself. then using that id, a simple api page could be queried to get the body of the killmail in question. there is no validation to make since a query with an invalid id would simply mean you'd get an error in the xml response and you can trap that."
"yes, i'm aware of all that. i've done some api work before - nothing serious, i was never much good at coding, but i do understand broadly how the system works. like i said, the solution here seems to be a reworking of the api system to allow keys other than the current limited and full. it'd solve this problem, and many others, without nearly as much nonsense as the cryptographic model proposed by the op."
"you stepped in the failsauce after your swim in the imamoron river this morning didn't you? you gotta watch that.our role, as you put it, is not simply to nod or shake our collective head, but to provide reasoned discourse on a topic so that the csm can decide what's worth taking to ccp. since not all of the people on the csm may be 5up3r l337 haxors like you, occasionally those of us with a few brain cells to rub together take the time to explain why we're arguing against a topic, or to clarify our support (or lack thereof). this is not us trying to do ccp's job, it's us using the assembly hall for what it was intended for.if you can't grasp that fact, i encourage you to put your keyboard away before you manage to successfully act like a epeen stroking, arrogant, dumbass. again."
"well that didn't mean anything. and i didn't say i \"worked with\", i said i still work with (as in full time job). i'm developing internal applications for the company i work for from scratch, and i'm still doing that. but yeah, whatever. there's no way i can prove to anybody in words and quotes what i really do know, i can only say so, but if you don't believe it, then there's not much i can do about it.that said, if i say i know for a fact something can be done, it's because i could do it myself and i know how i would do it (or have a pretty good idea already). my point, yet again, is that the people who claim they know what can't be done without really knowing, **** me off."
"well that didn't mean anything. and i didn't say i \"worked with\", i said i still work with (as in full time job). way to completely miss my analogy. from scratch!?!?! you don't say!?!it's not that we don't believe you. its that a) we don't care and b) your occupation does not entitle you to the arrogance and ignorance that you're been displaying. ya gotta think, every time ccp makes even the slightest change to the system, they get flamed. why is this? because these \"simple implementations\" are more involved than you think. even from a purely technical side, there's a ridiculous amount they have to consider, and that's not even touching the political aspect. they're running ramsans for goodness sake. i can pretty much guarantee you that puts them a few cuts above what your company does unless you're working in lockheed black world or something.if it ****es you off that bad, go take a laxative or somethin - it'll make you feel better."
"to provide reasoned discourse means you need concrete arguments. saying something can't be done because you think it would be bad for the game's performance when you don't know how it would even be done in the first place is not a concrete argument. that is my whole point, nothing more. if someone can prove that something would be affecting performance too much and how it would, now that would be concrete. however, i believe the arguments given to the csm should be more in line with how the topic would affect the game itself (good or bad), not the server backend.that's all fine with me, we should indeed explain why we're for or against a topic. it's better to do so than to simply say \"no\" and that is what constructive feedback consists of. the problem is when you (not you particularily, but people in general) say no only because you think the idea would cause problems in the server backend, when in fact, you don't have a clue how the backend works or how the suggestion would be technically implemented."
"good idea, but not supported, because it will remove ambiguity of reporting kills and losses from the game.not supported for the same reason why ccp don't want to create global killboard."
"op lacks any imagination.those changes would not do anything to help balance motherships.go back to coad."
"no minutes published?you've discussed some things?have any info to share?"
"boooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo!!!!!!!!!!!!!!what a cluster****."
"erik i suggest you form a faction within the csm and refuse to vote on anything without being courted first."
"but didn't..............."
"just me or 7 of those ppl have zero idea about fw?the npc corps can't dec. all of milita to be able to help regardless of war-dec."
"i give up.this seems to be an ego exercise and none of the candidates are taking issues seriously.next election i propose we just get a bunch of random fw ppl and use the vote exploit method to get them elected."
"ib4lseriously, this thread is pointless for this section. take it to jita park dr battlesmith. --isaac"
"spam. locked."
"horrible idea. john doe would love nothing more than this."
"supports 64bit"
"serves you right for sniping my issuep got some real donkey chokers inbound, need to finish writing it up for the forums, will be up tonight/tomorrow yo."
"added my topics:covert cynos in high sec:"
"wow you guys miss the point a lot.yes, that is the status quo. everyone knows that, no one is questioning it.what is being questioned is is the status quo right?some say yes, some say no. however in no case is \"ah, but it's the status quo\" a valid argument over whether or not it should be. if you have a point to make as to whether or not it should be, then do so.ah, now here we have an argument. that being \"mission runners are greedy\". okay, it's called greed when you 'want what you don't own' (your words not mine). doesn't that equally apply to salvagers? after all they don't own them either.the argument is - whose claim is predominant? someone who did something to create that resource (the mission runner who took the mission and created the wreck) or the person who just wanders in and says \"it's up for grabs and i'm grabbing\".to me the latter seems the more greedy. after all far less effort went into it.your other argument seems to be \"mission runners already make too much isk. so they don't need salvage.\"really? how much is too much? who decides? do ninjas make too much isk? if we want to talk greed - well how much does a ninja ship cost? 2-3 million tops if they're fit like the ones i've seen and frequently cheaper. how much does a mission running ship cost for an l4? a hundred million or more, usually.higher expenses means a greater requirement of cash flow in order to sustain them. it's not greed to want to break even or get something for your efforts. if you make a 100 isk on an investment of 1 isk is that greedy? possibly - it's a darned good return. but if you make that same 100 isk on an investment of a million isk you're being robbed.it's all economics. perhaps you should try learning about about how money works before accusing people of being greedy.(and yes, i have an accounting designation in the real world although it's not my primary job.)"
"heh. i never thought i'd say this but 'go redsplat!'oh and as fair warning - if you're a ninja and you see me in a ship of any class named \"hara kiri\" you'd best run. they're not named that for no reason."
"there are a lot of things in eve that questionable. things that are ethically wrong, for example 'corp theft'. where is the risk, where is the aggro. where are the numorous threads about that! where is the anger. corp thevies steal a whole lot more than i can salvage. that is status quo.further, the greed issue. when i fly into a mission, i don't convo the mr and tell him to leave, he convos me to tell me leave his salvage alone.im only there for salvage. he wants everything including salvage. i want one thing, salvage, that i am allowed to take.so what my ship is inexpensive, ( more than 2-3 mil.)its the american way. little investment large return.why shouid i skill for 6 months to run lvl 4, when i can skill for 3 months and salvage. by the way i am less than 2 months and i am a trader as well with all trade skills to at least to lvl 3.i chose a a faster path to making isk, within the rules of the game.if the rules change, i will change with it."
"3 months? bs 3 months. i just checked how long it would take me to get all the astrometrics skills, survey, and salvaging skills to lvl 5. it's 3 months for that. this is on an alt with none of the skills in queue for salvaging save those that we get to start. let's say maybe you don't have quite the level of learning skills, so add maybe a month to that. that's still only 4 months to get them all to level 5. you're an effective salvager with much lower training times. we all have seen the couple day old alt in our missions salvaging. enough with the bs about long training times. salvaging is among, if not the most lucrative profession a new player on eve can pick up in an exceptionally short period of time and with little to no risk. i refer you back to my previous post for what should be a fair compromise."
"minutes are where?hmmm this is odd, apparently you've met... and discussed things....however there is zero info for us....."
"it does take time to summarise and format a 3 hour meeting chatlog..."
"quick oz, take this, you'll find it more effective than logic."
"this would make a fantastic featurefully endorse this idea"
"at present, there is a delay of a few days between a csm meeting and the release of the redacted minutes. this is entirely understandable; producing tidy, well-edited minutes is not a quick job. however, the delay can be frustrating to people who want to know the status of a pet issue of theirs that was discussed at the meeting. to solve this, i propose that shortly after the end of the meeting, the secretary posts a tally of the votes for/against each issue discussed. something like this...solution to macro haulers: 8 in favor, 1 againstfix station docking radii: 4 in favor, 5 against... would be sufficient, and might assuage people whose pet issues are up for discussion and are too impatient to wait for the full transcripts. it should only take five minutes or so to do, and so wouldn't add apreciably to the secretary's workload; i can't imagine that there would be any nda/privacy-related issues either."
"i'm seeing a lot of people in this forum bash good ideas because they *think* that their implementation would have some sort of negative impact on the eve servers, or that it would take too much time for ccp to develop, when in fact, they really have no clue whatsoever.as far as i know, this forum is a place where we can vote on the importance of issues and proposals, so that the csm can bring them to ccp in their meetings.it's not up to us to define if those proposals can't be done, and how they would impact the performance of the servers.so if you are a qualified database administrator, programer or system administrator and you want to suggest how something could be done based on your profesional experience, go right ahead. but if you don't have any technical background in any of that, then don't pretend to know what can't be done or that something would be bad for the game's performance and concentrate on the idea itself.in other words, don't ditch an idea that may be good, just because you don't think it's possible to do.for example: if someone suggest they would like to have a \"missile alert\" warning blinking when a missile is incoming, don't say \"this is a bad idea because it would require too many calls to the database\". instead, vote on the idea itself, disregarding how it could technically be done. would you like a missile lock warning or not? (this example is not quoted from any post, it's completely fictive)i know how i may sound arrogant or condescending to some of you, but i know many of you will also support what i just said."
"omg - you're still posting. *facepalm* why hasn't natural selection gotten you yet?"
"this post is a bad idea on the op's part, it takes up a few precious bytes on ccp's forum server. think of the hamster's dammit!"
"i posted this in another thread, but it bears repeating here, because you keep brining it up.apparently i was too late. you beat me to the again."
"ya know, i'm starting to think this guy is a troll. if he is, he's effin brilliant. reminds me of this guy"
"posted in another post, but it goes here as well...to provide reasoned discourse means you need concrete arguments. saying something can't be done because you think it would be bad for the game's performance when you don't know how it would even be done in the first place is not a concrete argument. that is my whole point, nothing more. if someone can prove that something would be affecting performance too much and how it would, now that would be concrete. however, i believe the arguments given to the csm should be more in line with how the topic would affect the game itself (good or bad), not the server backend.that's all fine with me, we should indeed explain why we're for or against a topic. it's better to do so than to simply say \"no\" and that is what constructive feedback consists of. the problem is when you (not you particularily, but people in general) say no only because you think the idea would cause problems in the server backend, when in fact, you don't have a clue how the backend works or how the suggestion would be technically implemented."
"some ideas - such as this thread only deserve a \"no\". really doesn't get more elaborate than that sometimes.mods, can we get a lock on this thread since it's not evolving into any constructive purpose? also, dual/cross posting is starting to occur."
"first off, i dont fly capitals but ive seen old videos of jump animations. first time i was told to cyno someone, i was thinking \"awesome, i get to see flashy lights\". well cyno goes up, next thing i know the ship is right next to me and i didnt hear anything or have enough time to see anything special."
"keep up the support guys - its good to see. as lavista said they've admitted to it not being up to standard but ccp hasnt mentioned anything about it to the comunitity so we must continue the support to remind ccp we've not forgotten about this. please drag all your friends and show them this thread: dont force them to pick a side, thats not right ;p. just if they wish to support the rest of us they will know where to."
"old cyno effect made me want to turn fraps on and film 100 caps jumping through. now its as boring as jumping through a gate.bring it back."
"agree, more bright lights!"
"the problem is firstly that anyone can get kills in any ship if they know how to fit and fly it and understand what engagements it can win. prometheus exenthals's battle atron vid is a good example of this. does this mean atrons are awesome and should cost 20 mil isk each? in addition, your experience of assault frigates is limited to the ishkur. i've stated many times in this thread that if all afs were as good as the ishkur there wouldn't be a problem. if you can't see why its far superior to the others then go back and read the thread, its in there somewhere."
"unfortunately thats the kind of tone with which you entered the discussion to begin with. you kinda clearly stated that everyone who thinks af's need their fourth bonus are a bunch of whiners who need to learn to fly af's. dont expect people to constructively discuss things if thats how you see it."
"while promoting for a bit of help for the af, has anyone out there considered saving the faction frig?succubus:really does suck. 65 mil to buy, 200-300 mil to fit (if you want to actually fit it decently and get something out of it) damage of wet rag.worm: i think if it was buried even the garbage in the earth would spit it back out. if you can fit it good luck. when you do fit it, again its damage is pathetic for the cost of purchase and fitting it.republic fleet firetail: probably the best of the lot and with the nano nerf its now just a fancy looking medium speed frig, still useful however and easy to fit."
"agreed."
"1.0"
"the cost of assault frigs is a factor of supply and demand- there's plenty of market for them from people who know how to fly them, and so their price stays on par with other t2 frigs. yes, my personal experience in afs is limited to gallente, as tortugan is a purely gallente trained toon (okay, i have caldari frigate iv).let me ask you this- assuming that both pilots are competent and capable of rigging and t2 fitting their ship, what would the counter to an assault frigate be?"
"medium or large neuts. double webs. ecm drones. cruisers that fit frigate sized guns (vexor, maller, thorax sometimes). ships with plenty of bonused light drones. they are all deadly to afs, and an experienced cruiser pilot is unlikely to get in a fight with one without having one (or more ) to hand. we are talking about equally skilled pilots here, not ganking a week old player in a failfit bellicose. my argument is not that assault frigates should dominate t1 cruisers; i believe that it is great that they occupy a niche role in the game and require more delicate use, but it is in the interest of balance that they receive the full 4 bonuses that other t2 combat ships have. this will allow them to be a little better in the roles they fill, but they will still have the same weaknesses and thus require the same thoughtful flying to be sucessful with."
"here's my issue- i've fought a friend in a well-fit harpy in my buffer tanked dominix. i was using a full rack of medium neuts, triple webs, a scram, and hobgoblin iis. my drone skills are nearly maxed out (interfacing v, combat drone op v, etc) and he alone was able to get my 100k ehp dominix into about 65% armor before having to retreat.i guess i just think they're a bit overpowered :)edit: as far as cruisers go, an af with an afterburner is faster than a mwd cruiser 90% of the time, not to mention most good af pilots squeeze on a mwd instead. i have absolutely no fear engaging any t1 cruiser- i orbit him at 20km, if he warp disrupts me (hinting that he doesn't have a scram), i pull in to blaster range and mess up his day."
"so he was able to run his guns while being hit with 6 medium neuts? try again."
"cheap c-type small nos goes a long way. overloaded, he was able to run his guns and his shield booster- he would hit them each time his nos came through."
"retracted for reasons listed on page 3."
"sounds interesting >:d"
"i missed the first one... i will definately take a sick day for that event."
"/bump for ccp"
"do not freaking think about touching my maelstroms active tank"
"/signed"
"if anything this will benefit eve, new players can stare in amazement and see what you can earn if you play long enough, more people will be drawn to the game, will pay. and who better to give this great responsibility to other then chribba? he hasnt exactly attacked anyone in the veldnought so its not like hes going to attack in a titan. fully supported for eve growth and expansion.on a side note itll get more players to go into low sec because thats where theyll end up getting a capital ship most likely when they eventually have the skills and isk, so it benefits everyone."
"why not"
"this could be a good publicity stunt for ccpconsidering that ddd cannot be used in empire, i don't see any problem.i'll also be looking forward to the massive suicide fleet event and a monument to veldatar wreck"
"so where are the minutes?the issues were the same so i assumed it was the right meeting, it was the latest one published.given the responses are we to guess that in the last csm these same issues were voted down?minutes?link?you're the secretary right?care to update the website with the lastest info?"
"no actually, i'm not."
"oh my, we are quite the angry little troll today aren't we?patience my friend. the minutes will be posted when the sec (meissa) gets around to it. there's currently an issue with the method she used to wikify the last set, hence all the names are jumbled up.but please, feel free to come and try and gank me. i live in lowsec and am an outlaw so you won't even have to worry about concord coming to my aid."
"thanks chatgris for the support."
"/signed"
"nice, 5x heavy drone eos/myrmidons/tempests here we go. ccp please implement this."
"so if for some insane reason i want to sacrifice part of my ravens firepower and tank for these drone mods, i can get it to fit t2 ogres? supported!"
"for all those claiming \"e-peen enlargement\", etc- you're missing the point. self-destruct or not, it is still a combat loss. you lose a ship under hostile fire, you've sustained a combat loss. period.the killmail is a record of a combat action. if you prefer a different nomenclature, call it a \"combat loss synopsis\". whatever. the fact is that it is the standard recording of when a ship was lost and who was the cause. those who think it's about padding kbs or measuring wangs, you're severely inflating your importance in the scheme of things. it's not about you, it's about accuracy and like it or not, the killboard and killmail system is the de facto standard for measuring both efficiency and ability to fight in eve.as i have said in our podcast, there is no legitimate argument that could be made in a self-destruct situation that the aggressors are not responsible for the destruction of the ship. i honestly don't care if you blow yourself up or if you get blown up. if you got killed because someone locked you down and there was no escape, you cannot make any- not a single valid argument- that the aggressors are not the direct proximate cause of your ship's loss.i believe that the self-destruct mechanic serves a purpose in denying the enemy access to your fittings and also deprives them of any loot or module drops. that is a totally valid reason to self-destruct and provides a way to mitigate a loss. there is no valid argument that can be made that a combat loss incurred via self-destruct under hostile fire is not still a combat loss. it is what it is, the only thing remaining to do is fix the broken mechanic."
"no. for all the reasons already mentioned."
"the current situation:when a player aggresses on another or is aggressed by another in 0.0 space there is no indicator. you've got 15 minutes in which you'll remain in space should you log off or are disconnected. solution: add either a visible timer similar to the one from aggression in highsec/lowsec or something along lines of session change timer when undocking or jumping through gates.pros:the aggression timer is a big deal out in 0.0 space when it comes to pvp engagements. the lack of a visible indicator has resulted in people being unaware they were even (or still) aggressed when they logged off. this addition will solve that problem and keep players better informed of their client's \"status\".cons:adding a visible timer that is kept updated on the client may create additional (unreasonable) load on the server especially in huge fleet battles. unfortunately only ccp can answer whether this may be the case."
"change has been needed since game's inception, ccp obviously don't care at this point"
"no.not knowing if its safe to log off or not is part of the excitement in 0.0 by adding a visible timer then it just will encourage logoffskis and stuff.there are far more important game mechanics that need to be addressed than something this trivial."
"yea this idea sucks. sorry."
"would like ot see agression timers removed entirely myself, not supported on that account.also, favouring loggofskis? no thanks"
"i hate when people abuse log off mechanics, but this timer thing has nothing to do with that. it helps people that want to quit the game in a normal way, without cheating, after waiting proper period of time to quit.the people who abuse quitting system are the ones quitting before any aggression even started. those people don't benefit from aggro timer.so, like this idea or not, please don't be foolish enough to claim it helps cheaters. instead, focus on modifying the aggro timer logic itself."
"i would prefer it be automatic.. i'm only looking for skill inventory, but i can also be happy with members being able to toggle something in the membership tab on their own name, to share or not share their skills with the ceo and directors"
"i fully support this idea. i don't think this needs to be voluntary, however. i believe the voluntary part should be covered by the fact that you voluntarily join a player corp to begin with. ceo's already have the ability to see other things regarding your character, without it being voluntary. such as what ship you most recently flew, where it was located, and how recently the character has been online. they wouldn't have your api, only the ability to see what ships one could fly. i see this being very beneficial to ceo's as a way to more effectively organize ops."
"sweet idea, also fix damage taken!"
"as an eve player i think it's a valid question why this feature is not implemented.as a basilisk pilot i think your reward for repping your comrades in battle is your comrades not dieing - and they will love you for it =)i rather sit in the background unseen, saving lives (yeah, i know how this must sound ;-).regards, lax"
"intel added to the books. hehe."
"why not, but damage should of course be negative."
"or maybe the dock radius is based on sovernty in the system? sov 4 has nice big dock radius but with say only sov 1 when you undock your 500m from undock or something.high sec you should be able to undock and still be in dock range, low sec, im not sure, but something should be done to balance these stations."
"don't agree. i think that windows + all stations having the kind of undock you mention would be the better solution. however, failing the implementation of windows (and lets face it, what are the odds of getting windows in the next 2-3 years), i support this topic."
"i'm with them."
"well, with 'looking out the window for camps' at least we've uncovered a useful game mechanic to add to wis"
"considering the amount of stupid docking games i've had to suffer through, i'd support:1. a way to see which ship-types (not pilots) are sitting on the grid with the station. a window, if you'd likealong with2. all stations dump you outside docking range."
"every station should be a kickout.but yes, windows or some external view would be good."
"supported, but the timer is questionable due to different reasons for disco."
"ccp just needs to fix this problem.training for a skill to fix this is not the solution!thats like implimenting a skill to decrease lag."
"i see no reason to add t2 modules to capitals at this time. everything seems balanced enough as-is. --isaac"
"many of us aren't quite so superficial...that said, my understanding is that capital warfare needs an overhaul as it is. ought to get the other issues fixed first before even looking at this."
"i hope one of these t2 cap mods you want doesnt include a t2 ddd"
"so a few months ago faction warfare and the empyrean age was released.i loved the trailers.i moderately enjoyed the book.i hate the mechanic.i was expecting huge battles of survival and extermination involving ccp organised events aswell as general npc involvment in the battles.as it stands the warring factions seem to have compeltely forgotten about the war, scurried home and are apprently sitting there with their faces burried so far in their own crotches they didnt even notice that no one is fighting.everytime i go you a faction warfare area, i dont see the huge battles i read about in the book. where are the sanctuaries? where are the task forces which invaded sarum, kor-azor and the rest. where are the border zone invasions of tibus heth and his armada of 2 titans.im not saying that should happen everyday of the week, but you know, some variety would be nice.as it stands whenever i visit a faction warfare area all i see are glorified pirates shooting each other. there is no faction warfare.this is confirmed by the fact that caldari won. so. what now? :sfaction warfare as it stands is just a poor excuse for a free war-dec - and its failing.i know that there are literary hundreds of threads on faction warfare, but i still wanted to make a point.so. my proposals:npc involment currently all the npc's do it camp gates, as they have done since 2003 - no change. id love to see some sort of battles between the factions happening on a monthly/weekly basis, at pre-determined locations. these would be about 200vs200, and since its npc, there wouldnt be as much lag. anyway, since ccp would code them, shouldnt be too hard to reinforce the node in advance. the capsullers, i.e us, could then join these battles, and attempt to change the tide of battle. the npc's wont be concord dreadnoughts of doom - nor will they be cardboard sissies of missions. they shuold be easier to kill than a capsuleer, but actually put up a challenge. on a more detailed base, i would like to see battles of different sizes, from caldari stealth incursions, to full fledged minmatar invasions. as is in the eve universe, we, the pod pilots, are the most feared and professional killers in new eden, thus, our precense in said battles will be instrumental in securing victory. players would be able to battle in any ship they wish - even titans if someone is brave enough, but be warned, jamyl's garage is full of nasty revelations. although i forsee said npc's possesing super caps and caps, i would not allow the npc's to use dd's - i assume too much coding and tears involved. but motherships and carriers should be free to use fighters and remote ecm's and whatever else ccp think is useful. the new sleeper ai is definetly something to marvel at - why not use it in something which deserved an expansion on its own aswell?how npc involment would reflect on the outcome of faction warfare the major battles, involing hostile caps and super caps would inadvertantly reflect on the course of the war. i do not yet have a set mechanic id like implemented for this yet, but here are some ideas.1. losing a large battle would put the loser at a disadvantage until the next battle. the complexes which need to be taken for systems to be returned would be less defended, and so they would be captured with a lesser force. this could be changed in that the amount of ships defending is the same, but, since the opponent lost a lot of its competent pilots, these new ones are just recruits and thus have poorer equipment then their trained counter parts.2. the battle takes place in the contested system.this would probably be the most obvious solution. to the winner go the spoils. the conquering fleet gets complete control over the system. it then takes 24 hours (or until downtime) for the winners to \"secure\" the system, eliminating stragglers and imposing their own fleet in hot spots and gates."
"balancing issues of npc involmenti knew this would be an issue, as most proposals are.the caldari won because they have the most players, and because the gallente \"didnt want that space anyway\".as mentioned above, i am not a coder, i am but a simple 16 year old sitting at my internship slightly bored, so i cant state how this would be implemented.in an ideal world, this is how i would balance it.for this example we have a large fleet battle between caldari and gallente. the caldari have an average of 100 active pilots, while the gallente have an average of 20 active pilots (obviously incorrect figures, but lets assume for this example).i said active, because we can expect the active pilots to plan to show up to momentous battles which are announceed in advance. when the battle commences, it would e made so gallente have a larger and/or stronger fleet composition to begin with.this is in partly true because, as the lore goes, the gallente are the richest with the best army (lasers > hybrids any day though)this would mean that if the battle was left alone, then the gallente would gradually win the battle - although this engagements would be made for the sole purpose if inviting the capsullers in writing history of new eden, and the active pilots would be assumed to make it.the battle would be be judged as \"equal\" and the capsuleers would have to use their wit and intelligence to outsmart their enemies. killing the capsullers first, or prehaps targetting the enemies capital strenght.navy ships dont generate killmails, but if you are responsible for killing a enemy titan of mothership or whatever the dev team decide is fitting, then you could get a navy issued medal or ribbon for the achievment. also, simmilar to the book, (and this would go great with walking in stations) the soldiers should all get ribbons and medals for various achievments which they could wearon a side note: the enemy ships wont all focus fire and melt your ship in 5 seconds as you see in player controlled blobs, as this would be no fun. im hoping that the npc's will e split in \"squads\" of about 5-10 and they all have their individual targets which they choose.optional extra, for involving more players:mercenary involvement in large naval npc battles : can also be seen here :"
"40 views and no replies?its not that bad of an idea is it?"
"that would be good, yes.it would also be nice to get some custom icons for all those special items that currently either have icons that do not fit the item and item description, or that have a generic standard icon, which usually doesn't fit either."
"supported."
"i agree, especially for modules of different types using the same icon right now (ab and mwd...). new icons for those kind of modules would not only be nice, it's needed."
"the don't have different icons already?"
"the skill system in eve is divisive; some people think it's a brilliant aversion of the exp grinding which pervades other games, others think it's a boring system meant to force you to stay subscribed for longer whether you're actually playing or not. either way, the system is iconic and cannot be majorly changed.however, probably the biggest sticking point is the training time of level v skills. as training times increase 5x with each subsequent level, even a lowly rank 1 skill will take at least 3 days (unless you're seriously min/maxing your stats) and high-ranking ones can take months. this is generally annoying, but at least you can see the point when it's a prerequisite skill to use, for example, a new ship. on the other hand, a lot of skills are just fundamentally not worth it to get level v; for example, signature focusing is quite useful if you do a lot of ewar, but level v takes about 3 weeks to train for the same 5% bonus as the previous 4 levels, which took less than a week combined for a total bonus of 20%. basically, if it wasn't for prerequisites there would be very few skills which are useful enough to justify taking the 5th level -maybe a quarter of them- and a lot of the ones that are prerequisites are really annoying, since they're borderline useless for anything else (i'm rather hung up on the 2 weeks of sitting on my ass it'll take me just to train propulsion jamming v, solely to use an interdiction sphere launcher, but which only gives me a pathetic 5% reduction to propulsion jamming costs, which are pretty much irrelevant already).so my proposal is simple- to reward players for going the extra mile to train a skill to level v, i suggest doubling the bonus gain for that level- for example, signature focusing v would give a 10% bonus to ecm strength rather than the usual 5%. of course, i'm not suggesting to be applied indiscriminitely to all skills, that would be stupid. if it would be too much to apply to some skills (drone interfacing, for example) it could be less, say a 50% greater increase, or if the skill is one of the few useful enough as it is to justify taking it to v purely on its own merits (and would risk being unbalanced with this bonus, for example engineering) then it could be skipped. and obviously this bonus would not affect the ships themselves as the bonus per skill level is inherent in the ship, not the skill. if appropriately balanced i feel this proposal would give the proper incentive to encourage people to take skills like large blaster specialization v, which they would otherwise not even consider until they had literally nothing better left to train."
"thanks no."
"why not?"
"because if you want be better than lvl4 you need spend some time to learn. and lvl4 is almost end of the road, you are almost done you don't have space to improve more = only 5%."
"uh... all i see is that you completely failed to grasp my point."
"and you mine"
"the reward to training something to level five is usually the access to new t2 gear. allthough some of that was nurfed back in the day where only lvl 4 is required. the majority of mods still need lvl 5 to be trained in order to access the t2 variant which is enough of a reward."
"i'ma have to say no on this one too.if you want to have that extra edge over the next guy, you gotta work for it. what you're saying is \"i want that 5% without the effort\". no. not to mention how ridiculously unbalancing it would be to a lot of the skills. that little extra percentage can toss some of these numbers way out of proportion."
"no, lvl 5 gives you better bonuses than most people have access to, and in some cases makes the ship you fly that much easier. (example: freighters lvl 5, covert ops lvl 5, etc)no support.--isaac"
"doesn't make any sense to me.when skill x gives y% per level, training it to level 5 yields an additional y% boost. that is enough, that is balanced and makes sense.if you are arguing based on the character you are posting with and if that is your main, i can understand how you came to such ideas. with 6-7 months character age you have likely just hit the second peak in the character development frustration curve and probably suffer from the usual symptoms of the cdfc-syndrome. it gets better again."
"no.while it's tempting, this would be too much of an advantage. there's already a lot you can do to improve your chances in eve. implants, boosters, gang bonuses and warfare links, deadspace and officer loot..skill level 5, just like the above, is that \"extra effort\" which you do not have to get. unlike all of the above, skill level 5 is permanent and you don't need to pay extra.unless it's also a requirement for a next skill/ship. in that case the bonus you get is pretty much icing on the cake and the time you're doing is there to \"show your dedication to the cause\". you need to take your time before you can be let into the inner circle :). and i'll take that any day over mindless grinding of other games."
"you are the real problem, and the internet connection to your mum's basement"
"agreed. personally though, i'd like to see a \"reconnect\" button like there is with probes, but that'd be a different proposal"
"i am bringing back my topic from the dead... probably one of the only topics ive been able to find using the search engine in this forum amazingly enough o_o but anyways i would like to press this issue a bit further."
"look how long it took them to fix the jump gates volume problem when they had a volume of 1m3 i believe they had. even i noticed something wasn't right with that the first time i looked at the gates stats. true scale would be nice."
"my ocd demands correct scaling of imaginary spaceships."
"supported."
"easily done. only small rendered model size change needed, with some class-dependant camera adjustment added. could well have a big impact on immersion."
"lol, poor tiger, i agree \"not somthing ccp should get on asap, but maybe in the next big patch they can do some re-scaling, mostly on the carrier to mom size. ---supported"
"there are definitely more pressing things to be addressed, but i don't see why the issue can't be aired, it definitely is valid."
"if the shoe fits...but in all seriousness, the voting is legit. the problem is if an issue a csm member thinks bringing up a particular issue will hurt thier alliances progress in the game, they will not bring it up or support it, even if they are supposed to represent the community.and for those who are not in the same alliance as a csm member and actually thought they would represent you, shame on you!"
"its true, the ui changes proposal i made is specifically designed only to be avaliable to goonswarm and pandemic legion. kenzoku will get a \"different\" redesigned ui that features giant pictures of elephant seals replacing the ships and all pvp related buttons removed."
"i agree"
"will be interesting to see where this goes....but supporting the csm as one of their alternate'sdo all females have to get thier kit off to actully be on the csm?.../me goes off to look for a camera :p"
"maybe next time i will be able to raise enough votes to get yamamoto-san in."
"no one can get that premature geriatric elected, not even god"
"this thread is ******ed. csm is doing fine, and your assumption that they all made it in through an exploit is silly."
"bring it, dogs."
"okay i can see this poster has a poor rep elsewhere on the assembly hall with some ill-advised motions and pretty baseless looking accusations against the csm for voting fraud. still. i do take this proposal at face value and the reason i'm supporting the principle is that it can be frustrating for npc militia corp members to have no good ability to prevent the actions of an anti government revolutionary movement (like star fraction) in the day to day assassination, sabotage and formal public executions of militia member corp pilots. does cut both ways though. i assure you that sf pilots are every bit as frustrated that there is no way we can cull the mewling dogs of the militia corp entity without losing sec level and getting flagged ourselves. there are some proposals about allowing player corps to cheaply dec aggressers of militia entities elsewhere on record - that has its own merits and flaws of course. but the key point here is involvement and improving pvp fun and games for everyone right? lets forget the previous-stated hogwash about fw being a training ground for 0.0. it isn't. it never likely will be. fw has a far greater incidence of pilots coming back from 0.0 frustrated at the blob wars and pos rubbish than it does prospective groups learning their pvp arts and going off to fling themselves at the brick wall of 30 titans and moon-wealth funded 1000 pos infrastructure organizational turtles.fw is a great idea. it does (still) provide a lot of entertainment to the pilots involved with this loosely structure yet engaging pvp scenario that continues to enable a form of light pvp on demand to its participants.so lets get back to the proposal in the op - in essence. ccp should be able to have the npc militias wardec organizations that are considered (from a rp perspective?) to be a clear and present damage to that militia. obviously this needs personal oversight perhaps from the events team. perhaps the ccp reporter characters involved with the militias could assemble a shortlist? maybe it even needs a little negotiation between ccp people and the corps to be wardecced to ensure the dec is meaningful. in short it does need the human touch. but what do we get? well, we get more pvp for more people and a more realistic militia entity that is reacting to player actions and showing this universe of eve online is an actual living place where actions have consequences. example i guess from the op would be. i log on tonight and there's a stern amarrian patriach character in green text talking in kamela telling me that unless and until star fraction remove all our active wardecs against 24th crusade member corps and unrent our office in the militia capital system in kamela - the 24th crusade militia entity will be at war with the star fraction.thats it really. 2 mins staff time to take a perfectly fair in-game and in-character action that has now delivered another 1000 players more pvp and some actual plot development. i happen to think thats a pretty good idea. ***so mainly - please think about this stuff in the broader context. just because you think the op is a bit thick from his other threads - don't dismiss his idea here out of hand without thinking about it.good ideas can come from the most unlikely places and sometimes you need to open your minds and consider this possibility."
"i heartily endorse this product and/or service."
"ordinarily i'd probably say the same mate. but in this case i think he raises an interesting point about consequences for actions. i have to admit that sf is making life hell for these guys and we've been doing it for a long long time now. it would actually be quite fair if the 24th crusade militia entity turned round and wardecced us :)end result is more pvp for everyone signed up for a game mechanic thats about ... well ... more pvp.try as i might i can't see that being a bad thing."
"lets have it"
"i don't think we have enough threats against us. i need more practice stalking prey."
"why aren't the factions like alliances? we have been told by ccp that the reason alliances like cva, u'k, e'm, etc can't join a faction is because they are on the same level (from a mechanics and ic prespective).why should any corp/alliance be able to 'snipe' single pc corps out of the factions?proposal (and can of worms behind what i am about to say):make the npc factions into alliances in every way.executors are all npc corporations (cep, emperor, president, and chancellor).unable to declare war against any corporation or alliance, however provides for mutual defense of all corporations within the faction.jade will have to provide the actual numbers but my understanding is that as more wardecs are placed on a corporation/alliance the cost of wardeccing said alliance increases. while your solution is great lets say there are 10 corporations (some newly formed based on your advice and play time) that want to all counter-wardec star fraction (pie and the like already have their decs running), how much is it going to cost the 10th corporation to do so?and these aren't big corps with an industrial base and alts in motsu cranking out funds. they will likely be unable to continue the wardec (and support what are effectively their alliance mates) very quickly and likely have to leave pvp and go pve for a few weeks to months just to rebuild their wallets so they can come back and do it all over again."
"on balance i approvei'd like to see some consideration put into the economic side of the wardecs, since as has been said they can get quite expensive so can form an important weapon in eve warfare - member corps cough the dec fees? its by no means a deal breaker, but a simple matter of \"moar free wardecs\" would be quite annoying as ourselves and similar groups have been paying these things from the start."
"just to play devil's advocate for a moment...faction militias are public organizations and it does strike me as odd for a public organization to declare war on a private organization. for example, although the united states could have declared war on afganistan, it couldn't have declared war on al-quaeda (not legally, anyway).from an rp perspective, it would make much more sense for the amarr empire to declare star fraction to be a terrorist organization subject to police action than to declare war on us. perhaps, as a terrorist/criminal organization, star fraction could be set at -10 by the amarr empire for a set amount of time, causing us to be shot by npcs every time we enter their hisec.also, if an npc faction were declaring war on us, would it be paid for with npc funds? doesn't seem quite fair to me."
"unlike many of my alliance mates, i am not going to support this because i think it is an ad hoc sticking-plaster approach that just doesn't address the main issue in a balanced way.the basic problem with fw for alliances and many corporations is that the only fully-featured entry to fw is to enlist with a militia. you have to be for someone. this leads to all sorts of nonsenses and is one of the main reasons, i think, that loyalty to a militia is made into a nonsense by large-scale hopping about of corporations from one militia to another, apart from other undesirable effects.the game needs, among other changes i will not discharge my mind on here, a fully-featured against entry into fw.in other words, a corporation or alliance should be able to declare against a given militia and the following should then apply:they are at war with all corporations in the specific militia.they may attack complexes belonging to the empire of the specific militia they are declared against.they may not secure complexes belonging to the empire opposed by the specific militia they are declared against.they will be fired upon by npc navy forces of the empire to which the specific militia declared against is a member.(i do have views on npc navy forces but i'll approach this as a single change on the current system and other aspects of fw can be argued about elsewhere.)a given corporation or alliance should only be able to declare against one militia at a time.so what would this mean in the apparently urgent case of the star fraction and the amarr militia?well, the star fraction and amarr militia corporations would be war targets to one another but caldari militia corporations would not share in this.the star fraction would be able to attack and capture amarr fw installations but not caldari fw installations.the star fraction would not be able to formally secure minmatar fw installations (or any other for that matter).the star fraction would come under attack from amarr npc navy forces but not caldari npc navy forces.this is a consistent and coherent approach to the issue. it also allows for a much wider participation in fw by many corporations and alliances in a way that makes sense in rp/ic terms.mercenaries, freebooters, outlaws, minor faction loyalists, loyalists who don't want to be in any militia and alliances in general can declare against whoever and get involved without the absurdities (and impossibilities) that arise from enforced membership of militias.eve is a more mature and deeper game of war and politics than the current fw arrangements allow for. i think that fw as is was a good first try. much better than many feared it would be. but it needs to be improved and enhanced in many ways.this way is one of them and it squares the circle, both for in character reasons (ccp are right, alliances are extra-national entities ic, they have no business being in anyone's militia) and mechanical reasons, of alliances not joining militias.probably i should propose this myself. but i'm definitely not supporting the non-solution presented by the op.cosmo"
"i agree with cosmo. well put."
"rp or not thats a terrible solution though because it just removes pvp opportunity and makes fw into yet more npcs to do the fighting rather than players. to be honest, i'd like the existing fw hisec npcs reduced or removed and replaced with some kind of a bounty reward for actual players doing the enforcement. rp is no good if it makes the game weaker for the players.whereas i don't have an issue with this at all."
"this is a good all round solution and deserves to be in its own thread where i can support it."
"what cosmo said, yes please."
"translation:waa, waa, i ran for csm twice but only my mum voted for me either time :'("
"i always wonder from a rp perspective why sf is interfering with fw corporations in the first place.the militia's are at war with each-other but do not deny access to neutrals in any of the space they \"hold\".some of them may be undisciplined since there is no formal command structure but very few players go global criminal/camp 0.0 gates. from rp perspective sf should go back into 0.0 and fight the nbsi types there.(although the triple dd and bubble camp blobs these days make it understandable that you may not want to go there.)"
"i'm not his mom!"
"you're presuming to know what someone else's character motivations are, and then tell them 'they got it wrong'? sorry, you're not the person to decide my motives. i assure you there's reasons. if you like i'll explain them, but this is not the place for that.i would quite happily expand the combat area to the whole militia - i don't like losing sec status either ;). i like cosmo's proposal more than just a 'make ad-hoc wardec' though."
"first, this thread is constructive in nature, it's just the responses you have posted that are not. my point is about the use of this forum and what people should be concentrating on when they vote for something, which is quite relevant. just because you believe it's not, doesn't make it so.and as far as double posting, tell that to val...now can we please get back on the main topic?"
"actually, i'm not a guy - but i occasionally play one on the internet. in all due seriousness, i don't try and be a troll - occasionally though, i can't help myself. premeditated stupidity and deliberate ignorance infuriate me, and at that point i usually express myself in a less than polite manner. most of the time, i'm really quite pleasant to be around.i mean i have cats. how can someone with cats be horrible?"
"i see what you're saying, but de'vel has this one right, i think. there's a role for technical objections on the forums. we don't know the source code for the eve servers, but we do know a fair bit about the guts of the system, and there's plenty of room for reasoned speculation about the effects of a proposed change. speculation about performance issues shouldn't be a veto or anything, unless ccp has already rejected it for that reason(and even then, a new approach could still be fruitful, as with weapon grouping), but it's something that should be considered. neither the csm nor ccp has infinite time, and weeding things out that are obviously impractical is a major role for the csm. otherwise, why not just propose that ccp rewrite the game code from scratch, build a perfect ui, give us reinforced nodes on every system, implement every feature on their drawing board, lower subscription fees to a nickel per year, and give us all free plane tickets to fanfest? all of those things would be wonderful for the players and would be worthy of support under your proposal, but anyone who asks for them is a fool living in a fantasy world. practicality is a real concern, and despite the imperfect knowledge of the player base, it's one the csm should keep near the front of their minds when they decide what to ask for. suggesting that it be cast aside is a recipe for frustration and wasted potential on all sides."
"i was referring to kahlan"
"i do see what you mean, but it's a double-edge blade. the problem, as it was demonstrated to me so many times in this forum, is that nobody is an expert, and even if someone really is (due to their profession), we can't tell they really are. so who do we believe? in other words, if 5 players try to explain the negative effects of a certain suggestion on performance, and all use different reasons and make assumptions, and then another player says nothing of that is true, who's \"profesional opinion\" will the csm base their \"filtering\" on?as someone so kindly pointed out to me, not all csm are very technical when it comes to database and system administration, and may take incorrect assumptions about negative impacts of a suggestion into account when they filter it for ccp. that's what i'm afraid of, and that's why i think we should not try to guess technical impacts of suggestions for ccp but rather use what we all know, which is the game itself (the game mechanics, not the backend) to base our vote. like you said, if ccp then says it's not technically doable, or said so in the past for a similar suggestion, then it would be fair to vote it down for the same reason, as long as it's explained as such (with a quote)."
"ultimately, that has to be left up to the judgment of the individual csm members, mostly because there doesn't really exist a better way of doing it."
"alright, i agree then. i just read the last meeting minutes, and i did see someone bring up this exact point in regards to one of the suggestions (that they shouldn't be nitpicking the details of how it should be implemented and let ccp design it as they see fit), so i guess my fear is not completely founded after all."
"i don't see an issue outside of whining about the assembly hall. i vote moving this thread to jita park speakers corner."
"eve already has a cemetery."
"only if you're allowed to beat their corpses (ig or oog, i care not which) for the x-type kidneys and all the good loot before jettisoning the remains also just noticed:lol, be careful: a crack overdose might get you next!"
"i agree with the caveat that not everyone deserves a memorial in eve. it should be application and petition based on a case-by-case basis. based on contributions to the community, how well they were known, etc. etc.perhaps the ability to plant memorials could be a sovereignty level 4 bonus. you can plant up to 3 memorials in your capitol system.that said, i'd like to see something like this"
"not sure i follow. can you elaborate on that? the op is only asking for a way to \"validate\" killmails using a sort of unique id.i don't think anybody talked about a global killboard in here though. what would be those reasons exactly?"
"so the only problem with this is that you don't want to enable the enumeration of all killmails via an api by sequentially querying each id, so you'd need a meta-id so that the id space was sufficiently sparse that enumeration is impossible. either that or make the killmail querying possible with a limited api key.signing seems like an easy solution since there are standard libraries for python which let you do 'signmessage(message,privatekey)' and 'verifymessage(message,publickey)' so it's easy for everyone involved. and more in line with the behaviour of e-mail signing in the real world."
"actually, i was not aware that there was an api which permitted enumeration of a character's killmails (probably because it's not part of the documentation), so now i see this i'm wonder ing why most killboards still seem to use ye olde tech cut n' paste method? rather than reading a corp's killmails using the api. there are still scenarios where signatures on individual mails is desirable, but with a trusted third part many of those can still be solved with the api."
"right, i thought about the possibility of ennumerating all killmails sequentially using the current primary key as a problem too, which is why they would indeed need to use another key that is unique, but non-sequential. they could just concatenate several fields together such as the id + the datetime (with seconds). they can also throttle the api so that it's only possible to query a certain amount per second. there's many ways they could do this. some of which would take more time to develop, and some less. i don't see this as a problem.i consider python to be a language for hyppies (aka geeks in sandals), but yeah, if you say so hehe."
"agreed. overkill idea. integrate the api system."
"you do realise you're agreeing with someone who pretty much stated he doesn't know what the request is.(hint, digital signatures require no db activitiy, read or write).actually, given that there exists an api method for verifying killmails given the correct credentials, one might argue that providing a reliable offline method for verifying killmails would *reduce* the need for this api and therefore reduce db load."
"as i stated in in the features and ideas forums, i'd like to see the pre-existing ability to queue industry jobs (manufacturing/copying/inventing) implemented so that it works similar to the skill queue. for example, this would mean that a player with 2 invention slots is able to queue invention jobs for a 24 hour period for both slots instead of having to log on after each job finishes to start new jobs in each slot.thoughts? ideas?- orion"
"supported =]"
"no support. its why you can use multiple jobs at once. if your having trouble keeping your industry queues down, get more labs.--isaac"
"no. absolutely not supported.if you want more jobs running train for them and get more jobs.what sense does it make for someone who can only use two jobs at once to be able to tie up the station's industry job slots so that others can't use them?if you don't want to train for more jobs then log on and actually play the game by cycling them manually."
"i've noticed that on many list views (container, overview, corp members, etc...) if not all, some columns are not sorted properly.their values are numeric in nature but represented in text, and since columns are only sorted in alphabetical order, those columns do not get sorted properly.for example: the corporation members tab. if you try to sort it by \"last online\", it will not sort by length of time, but rather by text, so for example: \"less than a day\" would show after \"1 month ago\" when sorted in ascending order, which is wrong. (not sure about exact phrasing but you get what i mean)i can't say i know how the tables are compiled right now, and if the numeric value is present somewhere in a hidden value or if the value you see is all there is, but they would need to sort by key and not by value to fix this (where the key is always in the same numeric format and can be sorted numerically).am i the only one that thinks this issue is quite annoying?"
"again, already raised with ccp and agreed to. i even reposted the minutes into that thread..."
"whoops, i even checked the thread but completely missed that :("
"lol - every been part of one of those? first, it's hard and it takes a long time. and, yes, it's pretty crappy ethically and i loathe it but at least it fits believably in the eve world. second, do that and i can guarantee you'll have aggro like you won't believe. it'll just be really mean player aggro.we were treated poorly by a fellow from an alliance we were once part of - and you know, we've something like half a dozen of his frozen corpses sitting in one of our corp hangars. he didn't even steal anything, just treated us with a lack of consideration and the cost to him in ships was pretty high in the end.so, yes, there are most definitely consequences. they just have a different mechanic. also, that's irrelevant to the conversation.thank you so much for making my point for me. let me paraphrase the above.\"hi, i'm galmarr. i've a character with little skill that i put little effort into and a cheap @$$ ship that i barely paid anything for. i'm going to fly into a mission space that i cannot possibly access because i've never done anything to up my standings so as to be able to even talk to an l4 agent, salvage wrecks that i could not hope to create on my own and take from you (who created all this stuff by your actions) millions of isk which will likely pay for my ship 4-5 times over on this one single job.\"\"get out of my mission space creep!\"\"wow are you ever greedy! i mean - wanting that which you created? how dare you. i want it too and while you're busy with the rats i'll just take what i could never have created and barely put any effort into getting, thereby sponging off you like the parasite i am.\"now who was greedy again?sheesh."
"minutes of 3rd meeting added. could some moderator please sticky this?"
"download: pdf | raw log - txtmeeting minutes: 2009/06/21present dierdra vaal, vuk lau, avalloc, erik finnegan, larkonis trassler, mazzilliu, meissa anunthiel, omber zombie, zastrow j, issler dainze, shatana fulfairasdiscussionomber zombie got a reply from ccp xhagen mentionning that nothing being discussed in the csm channel was to be discussed outside of the channel while the meeting was in progress, until the minutes were published.dierdra mentionned that the csm 3 members still don't have their email addresses and that he would continue to harass ccp diagoras in a more pressing tone than he had before.larkonis asked if members with forum bans (such as himself) could post in the csm section of the forums.omber zombie replied that bans are forum wide, and that darius johnson had the same problem.client modification (mazzilliu)in raw text from: 2009.06.21 17:09:29meissa anunthiel said that while the proposal would decrease the gap between the people following the eula and those who do not, it was in the direction of allowing macros more easily and wondered if that was something we need.mazzilliu replied that the goal of the proposal isn't to allow people to rat afk, but in some cases it does decrease the gap without adverse effect. she emphasized that the proposal was a convenience issue.omber zombie said that modding in the past has lead to stripping all artwork to reduce lag, among other things, and also that it creates an arms race where everyone has to mod the client to compete.mazzilliu replied that people should be able to play the game the way they like, that competition doesn't rely on the ui as much in eve as in other games, that the important part was more ship fits and other such decisions. she also stated that people might able to deal with client lag better than the devs.larkonis said it removes lots of player skills from the games (broadcasts, autolock, autoguns, autorep), leading to a situation where the groups with the best programmers win. he agrees the ui is pretty **** but it's a level playing field.mazzilliu pointed out that the skill in gang fight involves not clicking the wrong thing in the godawful interface. she also replied that people will want to make a name for themselves and release the best and newest ui and pointed to evemon, eft and others as examples of released tools (dierdra pointed to bacon as another exemple), and that there aren't useful eve tools only available to big alliances.larkonis replied that evemon/eft and other such tools don't have effects on immediate gameplay.mazzilliu continued, stating that software tends to spread if it is useful.erik agreed with oz and meissa in thinking it would open pandora's box. he also pointed out that creating such plugin api without macro or security issues would take a tremendous amount of work that would be best used in a ui overhaul the regular way, as well as possibly extend the out-of-game"
"essed his concern that people would be depending on mods that patches would break, that creators would need to fix, but ccp would be the ones getting the grief. he however agreed the ui needs a revamp.mazz replied that well maintained mods take a short time to get updated and since eve relies much less on reaction time [than wow], people would still be able to function by using the old ui.meissa pointed out that some elements are hidden from view because of design decisions. he also described diverse exemples of how any functionality the api would have could be abused (reading the overview = autotargetting/scramming, reading the market = auto -0.01, etc.) thereby leading to an unabusable api being actually deprived of any function. he also pointed that while eve is currently macroable, it's a bannable offense, making it legal is in his opinion a bad idea.mazzilliu replied that costumizeable ui elements need to be looked at for balance, also stating that macros are poorly enforced. she expressed her opinion that auto manufacture/invention would be awesome.omber asked how mazz proposes ccp deal with people using client mods to steal data (ingame channel passwords, igb data, etc.). he also asked if this proposal was mazz' or kugutsmen.mazz replied that she's no meat puppet. she pointed to a few suggested solutions to the abuse problem (mandatory open source of the mods, etc. [see proposal])dierdra agreed that the open sourcing requirement is needed to make the mods \"clean\" in terms of security.erik expressed his undecision on the matter, agreeing that both sides have a point. agreeing with dierdra that people who want to macro will macro and with meissa's doubts about hidden information.mazz replied that ccp will not allow something hidden by design to be revealed in a customized ui.dierdra said that hidden information could be argued to be bad design decisions that would be overthrown with mods.mazzilliu said her ultimate goal is that ccp adopt really good player mods as the default or built-in alternative.voting followed with 1 minute suspense moment as we waited for zastrow and avalloc to cast their votes... leading the approval of the motion(5 for, 4 against: larkonis, omber zombie, meissa, vuk lau)share dividends payout value (omber zombie).in raw text from: 2009.06.21 17:49:45omber zombie introduced the issue, stating it was basically changing a value so that dividends can be paid out with one button click instead of 50mazzilliu asked if there was any downside to the proposal, omber replied negatively.dierdra said that we should request for a code change to allow larger values instead of requesting 64 bit integers, saying we could use a \"long\" [note from the secretary: \"long\" is programming datatype, depending on the language it's either 32 or 64 bit], his point being that we should request a solution, not an implementation.erik pointed to a previous csm suggestion related to dividends that we might want to link.omber zombie replied that it was already raised, passed and that ccp already agreed but \"never did anything\".erik said that past csm was asked to provide details on a \"good\" stock exchangeomber zombie replied that it was an entirely separate kettle of fish, that this proposal is about payout of dividends.shatana mentionned a dev saying a couple of years ago that this was \"too hard\" a code change and aren't certain as that code had lots of implication.larkonis replied that it was about dividends, not some fancy pants fleet street stock exchange.shatana said that they were asking the same question, but the 64bit would cascade down crippling the client with double the workload."
"omber zombie replied that this was noted in the proposal.motion passed unanimously.zoom buttons (dierdra vaal)in raw text from: 2009.06.21 17:59:53mazzziliu and dierdra went off-topic with ui customization, which omber zombie and larkonis pointed out.motion passed unanimously.manufacturing and invention at posesin raw text from: 2009.06.21 18:07:30meissa introduced the issue.larkonis expressed his current understanding of the current bp/lab/station mechanics. meissa said it was correct. [anyone not familiar with the current mechanics may find more information about the questions asked and answered in the raw minutes].larkonis asked if the proposal was going to change the need for resources to be located in the pos labs/arrays. meissa answered that the resources would still be at the pos.omber zombie helped clarify the proposal in simpler terms: \"basically instead of having to remember which hanger you put the bp/mats in, it just looks for them all and does what it needs to\"larkonis asked if it was about improving the operation of labs remotely, meissa agreed that it was.larkonis asked if there would be any change to anyone coming accross labs on offline poses, blowing them up, and then scooping the juicey loots like a nine year old smashing a pinata at a birthday party.meissa replied that it could, on the contrary, make labs/arrays more present in 0.0/lowsec at best and keep the status quo at worse.avalloc said that having all resources be pullable from a corporate hangar array at a pos makes sense. meissa agreed that this was indeed what the proposal was asking for.avalloc said that this proposal was trying to put too much together, especially when it came to the bpc stacking issue.meissa agreed, and removed the bpc stacking from the wikified issue, leaving the 2 main issues that had been discussed so far.erik expressed his confusion at the issue and asked for clarification as to wether the researcher would still need to be at the pos. meissa answered that the proposal would make researcher be able start their jobs remotely.meissa asked if, considering some of the confusion, each half of the issue could be voted on independantly.voting followed on the first part (make blueprints in labs/assemblies the user has access to visible from afar, according to the scientific networking skill, at least optionally) and passed unanimously.meissa explained the second part again, which was voted on (a lab/array takes items from a corporate hangar array anchored at a pos if the lab/array lacks some items), which passed unanimously."
"armageddon day (vuk)in raw text from: 2009.06.21 18:34:14larkonis said it wasn't too much to ask ccp to throw one of those everytime there's a major patch, even though it's going to be laggy on sisi [singularity, the test server].omber zombie said he was happy for this to take place on sisi, but not on tq [tranquility, the main eve cluster].dierdra thought it a good idea on sisi, but not on tq.vuk lau agreed that if it's doable on sisi, then it's better on sisi.larkonis pointed that the last armageddon day was on sisi and as such it should stay that way.vuk replied that it was not so stable, and that the player base as grown.larkonis asked to be made semi-regular, like monthly.vuk answered that if it's too frequent, it looses its epicness.voting followed, motion passed unanimously.what is in the works for fwin raw text from: 2009.06.21 18:41:43erik introduced the issue.dierdra saw no reason not to request more information, vuk agreed.voting followed. motion passed (6 for, the last 3 voters against: mazzilliu, meissa and larkonis) solution to macro haulers (maz)in raw text from: 2009.06.21 18:47:27erik expressed his appreciation for the fine solution.larkonis thought the proposal pretty cool, as it would add some tangible reward to popping haulers.omber zombie expressed his concern that without increasing the reward, it would skew the risk vs reward out of proportion (towards risk).mazz answered that few humans run hauler missions, but that while reward might need to be looked at this proposal aims at fixing macro mission runners. also pointing that hauling being boring rather than lack of rewards was the deterrent to running them, not the low rewards.larkonis said the cargo requirement of l4 courriers are within capabilities of blockade runners, thereby removing risk for the average player.mazzilliu said it's not impossible to kill blockade runners, just very hard, and it increases the risk of seeing it blown up.larkonis agreed that a good blockade runner pilot is nigh uncatchable, but mission farmers tend to linger on gates.mazzilliu replied that they could just jump a carrier on top of the station and be more invincible, but as stupid carrier pilots get killed all the time, the risk will always be there.larkonis agreed this would make them sharpen up and make tastier preys. mazzilliu agreed that any area infested with farmers will attract pirates and decrease the macro population.omber zombie pointed out that the proposal ignores the fact that humans actually do these missions.mazzilliu agreed, but stated they aren't many and are alert, thereby evading gatecamps. she agreed there will need to be a rebalancing to make it worth it however. this proposal is aimed at solving the farmer problem without ruining for people who know how to complete the missions.larkonis said that just like l4 kill missions have a higher requirement (well-fitted bs), it's not unreasonable to expect courrier l4s to have higher requirements.meissa said that people run those missions (him for one), and that a 1 mil collateral would be a lot for newbies, therefore requesting that the higher collateral be limited to l4 missions. dierdra agreed.mazzilliu pointed that a specific provision was put in to preserve low level highsec missions.dierdra thought it an interesting idea, at least worth putting forward as ccp is likely to like a player-policing solution."
"voting followed, motion passed unanimously.omber zombie voted yes, but requested that the risk vs reward be fixed.corp interface overhaul (dierdra vaal + mazzilliu)in raw text from: 2009.06.21 19:04:00dierdra stated he had contacted several large alliances for input.avalloc asked if the pos password change was on a per pos basis. omber zombie said it was.dierdra had received a couple of additions from erik, she read them (they are now included in the wiki)- corp assets overview (not direct hangar access view/take) is only available to the director in the corp interface; should be a grantable right to others- contents of pos hangars is not visible. the hangars are shown as items in space, yet their contents is not being expanded. should be visible more like the \"assets in stations\" tab.- the asset list features a volume column, but it is not filled ?!- corp mail (delete) access might be a permission on its own. but that might be packaged with a mail-ui overhaul issuenobody objected to the additions.voting followed, the issue passed unanimously.larkonis mentionned that some of the parts in the package he didn't like but still voted \"yes\" because it's \"mostly good issues\".show implants on pod killmails (meissa)in raw text from: 2009.06.21 19:19:54dierdra said this was requested in csm 1, and ccp mentionned some technical difficulties in adding implants, adding, however, that it sounded like a lousy excuse.omber zombie said the fixed the implants data in the api, so it should be less of a problem.larkonis said the technology and interfaces have moved in the past years and agreed to raising it again.zastrow requested that if this issue is going to take lots of coding time, it should get a lower priority.dierdra answered that prioritization is something the csm does in a different stage.voting followed. motion passed unanimously.more orbit range options (erik)in raw text from: 2009.06.21 19:27:13larkonis said that juggling between approach, keep-at-range and orbit was sufficient, but an extra orbit button couldn't hurt.dierdra said that the proposal was about configuring the existing orbit options without adding a button.erik said the implementation choice was left to ccp.voting followed, motion passed unanimously. remove pause for jc and implants (meissa)in raw text from: 2009.06.21 19:34:51avalloc asked if it was a big deal, as he imagines there must be a code reason for it not to be included.meissa agreed that there might be reasons, such as jump cloning to a clone with lesser implants could create a queue that is normally impossible to create. but the gain to be obtained that way is small.dierdra said that it was fair to put this to ccp, even if there were technical issues.meissa said that if they can't include it for technical reason, at least they can put a pause/resume training button in the jump cloning pane for easy access.voting followed, motion passed unanimously."
"pos labs and assemblies use by corp and alliance (meissa)in raw text from: 2009.06.21 19:43:58omber zombie said this had been asked for before and the csm was told that it was technically impossible.meissa considered it unsurprising, however doubting about the impossibility, stating that maybe the time had come for an overhaul on that front, something he was willing to argue with ccp.larkonis expressed his concern that labs become less juicy targets, as components would not be in the labs/arrays anymore.erik said that the renting out of slots could be achieved through finer grained roles instead of pulling lab functionality into local stations.meissa disagreed it had anything to do with corp/alliance roles, it was a problem of access to the labs on alliance/personal basis.meissa asked larkonis if he could think of a solution to alleviate the \"less loot on pos blowup\" problem.discussion followed a little bit about possibilities.dierdra interjected that it wasn't the right time to go through an elaborate revision of the proposal.meissa agreed and discarded the issue for the time being, to be resubmitted to the next meeting.other businessomber zombie requested that a time limit be set to the meetings [the meeting lasted 3 hours].discussion followed on how to make it easier on people.it was eventually agreed to hold the next meeeting 1 hour sooner. meeting ended."
"seems a bit spurious really.you already have corp contracts, hangar roles, divisions and corp hangars etc...if you dont want to use the above due to trust issues then you need to set your corp in order"
"lets start off with a short explaination of what i mean,i was floating around in my ships there, also in fleets and at some point started to wonder ... why the christ does my shooting animation hit the target eventho it was a \"miss\"? , why do my missiles allways come out of the center of my ship and not from maybe \"launchers\", why dont fighters or drones fly in formations and especialy why for gods sake if i for example plug 1200mm dual barreled artilery on a ship it actualy adds in feeble pathetic one barreled gun on a stick ?now lets go things through in detail.best to start off with no 1# the combat animationsnow there could a far greater variety in combat effects, such as misses, flak-fire, physicaly correct missile explosions and impacts upon shield / armor aswell as the grand weapon activation effect on some of the dreads such as the extending lasers of a revelation etc.lets start of with misses: here would be an example how it could look for some type of weapons like blasters and projectileits a simple law that no projectile weapon , be it even the best , can have a 100% accuracy and have bullets in a straight line like a laser fly ot the target. this of course causes a certain amount of \"spray effect which can just look fanatastic and add greatly to the atmosphere, especialy with some missfires and just anti air (in our case anti fighter / drone ) flak :"
"now what is necessary is a collision controlled impact upon the ships surface, with physicaly correct explosion angle and impact, unfortunatly i couldnt find a suited video of it, but i think one gets the point.next point : droneshow ugly does it look if drones orbit , their guns are pointing forward but apparently they shoot away in a 90 degree angle down towards the orbited target. why not alter the game mechanics to have for example at least fighters fly in formations, and have them make attack approaches just like this:"
"i am considered a carebear by some and reckless by others, but i don't give a damn.what i do care about is the fact that every random ****** nowadays can wardec just anyone without really paying a price for it anymore.some small corp of 5 or 6 members can wardec 3 big corporations or even alliances and all they have to do is play the station hugging tango.my suggestion would be as follows:if you start an act of agression outside a station the stationmanager isn't all too happy letting you in again. so not a quick rr and then redock over and over again. no you actually will have to either go off of the grid from said station or go dock at another station in the system to reset your docking permits at the first station.this would result in less wardecs i know, because now people would actually have to shoot their way out if they chose to engage instead of waiting for the agression timer to run out and dock up again.so instead of doing the chickenrun tactic you will have to come up with some real tactics.and though the number of wardecs might drop the number of actual fights would increase.i know this would upset a lot of wannabe merc and pirate corporations, but heck, they want to pvp, let's give them pvp. this would also let socalled carebear corporations rethink a possible station hugging contest and train some more pvp skills or recruit a defensive wing.this offcourse wouldn't be at player owned stations or outposts in 0.0.also have a good look at the dockingrange of some stations. there are stations that you undock from and fly away from the undock point for 50km and your still in docking range. these are 2 features if looked at and fixed would make actual pvp happen again during high sec wardecs instead of one corporation sitting docked ot in dockingrange and the other just sitting outside."
"i did not sleep with that woman! that being said, i concur with the above statement.i'd simply suggest changing the aggression countdown of redocking at a station to something more like 5 minutes in empire. even 2-3 minutes would make a huge difference."
"thread topic/title misleading.please clarify what your suggestion actually entails in the thread title as changes to agression and dock ranges will not neccesistate fewer wardecs."
"maybe i just haven't look in the right place yet, but i can't seem to find a schedule for those meetings.is there a planned date already or not?"
"september 3-6 in iceland"
"thanks! is it announced somewhere though or you just have to know?"
"i agree, a summary of the issues that passed and failed right after the meeting would be nice."
"hello,while i could potentially do that (that's not much work), i'm two minds about it.the reason is that with just wether the vote passed or not, you won't be able to tell why it failed, which may be very valid reasons overlooked by the poster of the issue. there was enough drama from the fw crowd over the (imho) stupid issues that had been rejected, i suspect there would have been more if the reasons for voting those down wasn't public.maybe a decent compromise would be to post the voting record on the wiki, those who care enough will check it, those who just read the forums won't start flaming left and right.other than that, i think i have to apologize once more for producing the minutes less fast than i could have. things should go way faster now as the production of the pdf, wiki code, forum code [and another format yet to be released] are now automated (saves me at least an hour worth of formatting :p)"
"voting record is already there in the form of raw text which is published anyways...you will all survive waiting a few days.it will be months before any of this is implemented anyways."
"first, this thread is constructive in nature, it's just the responses you have posted that are not. my point is about the use of this forum and what people should be concentrating on when they vote for something, which is quite relevant. just because you believe it's not, doesn't make it so.and as far as double posting, tell that to val...now can we please get back on the main topic?"
"actually, i'm not a guy - but i occasionally play one on the internet. in all due seriousness, i don't try and be a troll - occasionally though, i can't help myself. premeditated stupidity and deliberate ignorance infuriate me, and at that point i usually express myself in a less than polite manner. most of the time, i'm really quite pleasant to be around.i mean i have cats. how can someone with cats be horrible?"
"i see what you're saying, but de'vel has this one right, i think. there's a role for technical objections on the forums. we don't know the source code for the eve servers, but we do know a fair bit about the guts of the system, and there's plenty of room for reasoned speculation about the effects of a proposed change. speculation about performance issues shouldn't be a veto or anything, unless ccp has already rejected it for that reason(and even then, a new approach could still be fruitful, as with weapon grouping), but it's something that should be considered. neither the csm nor ccp has infinite time, and weeding things out that are obviously impractical is a major role for the csm. otherwise, why not just propose that ccp rewrite the game code from scratch, build a perfect ui, give us reinforced nodes on every system, implement every feature on their drawing board, lower subscription fees to a nickel per year, and give us all free plane tickets to fanfest? all of those things would be wonderful for the players and would be worthy of support under your proposal, but anyone who asks for them is a fool living in a fantasy world. practicality is a real concern, and despite the imperfect knowledge of the player base, it's one the csm should keep near the front of their minds when they decide what to ask for. suggesting that it be cast aside is a recipe for frustration and wasted potential on all sides."
"i was referring to kahlan"
"i do see what you mean, but it's a double-edge blade. the problem, as it was demonstrated to me so many times in this forum, is that nobody is an expert, and even if someone really is (due to their profession), we can't tell they really are. so who do we believe? in other words, if 5 players try to explain the negative effects of a certain suggestion on performance, and all use different reasons and make assumptions, and then another player says nothing of that is true, who's \"profesional opinion\" will the csm base their \"filtering\" on?as someone so kindly pointed out to me, not all csm are very technical when it comes to database and system administration, and may take incorrect assumptions about negative impacts of a suggestion into account when they filter it for ccp. that's what i'm afraid of, and that's why i think we should not try to guess technical impacts of suggestions for ccp but rather use what we all know, which is the game itself (the game mechanics, not the backend) to base our vote. like you said, if ccp then says it's not technically doable, or said so in the past for a similar suggestion, then it would be fair to vote it down for the same reason, as long as it's explained as such (with a quote)."
"ultimately, that has to be left up to the judgment of the individual csm members, mostly because there doesn't really exist a better way of doing it."
"alright, i agree then. i just read the last meeting minutes, and i did see someone bring up this exact point in regards to one of the suggestions (that they shouldn't be nitpicking the details of how it should be implemented and let ccp design it as they see fit), so i guess my fear is not completely founded after all."
"i don't see an issue outside of whining about the assembly hall. i vote moving this thread to jita park speakers corner."
"less work for 3rd app and more concentration on more important stuff like bug hunting, adding new features and stuff. i support that for sure. and its true that people will help in this for sure."
"i full agree with this. look at the quantum rise trailer. did the federation just appear there or did they make a a grand entrance with jump effect?"
"along these lines, does anyone else remember the cool effect that acceleration gates had? i liked having lines come out of the gate and actually throw me forward"
"/signed.16 pages and still no comment from ccp..."
"i'm sorry, either you failed to stagger you neuts, which means it was purely down to pilot error, or you're lying."
"i staggered them. i can't recall whether he was cap boosting as well or not- and at some point he did cap out, but he'd managed to get me quite a ways into my buffer. again, they take skill to fly well, but as it stands they are if anything overpowered."
"absolutely. gimme me my tracking on my jag and my wolf"
"signedmake the hawk and vengence useful!!"
"well, as we have to gain higer skills for using these ships, they should be worth it, not only for better resistances/slightly better fitting possibilities... so more slots or more interesting bonuses would be fine with me!"
"i never really understand the logic behind ccp's refusal to have that 4th bonus. it really can't be their concern for game balance, because hacs have 4 bonuses and they are much more powerful than af could ever bei think it's just pure stubbornness, and general aversion to common sense design practices. once they set their mind on something, no amount of petitioning and logical argumentation is gonna move them. just give up, and focus on issues that have some hope of getting fixed"
"page one again, best idea for pos revamp since 2006"
"quite possibly one of the worst ui design issues in this game.probes should be a selectable overview option. not allowing them does not stop people who are looking from finding them, it only leads to a crappy game experience."
"bump"
"having been encouraged by some people to put in the form of a specific proposal my own suggestions for accommodating non-aligned corporations and alliances in factional warfare (fw) gameplay, i put it forward here.i have taken the time to make an extensive argument on this in my blog: faction warfare and 'third forces'i won't reproduce it here for reasons of space but i will present the offered solution in full. i invite anyone to peruse the blog entry itself and i hope any interested csm members will do so to better understand my reasoning.simply put, it should be possible to enter factional warfare in a fully-featured way by opposing a given faction without joining an opposing militia. in other words, a corporation or alliance should be able to declare against a given militia and the following should then apply: they are at war with all corporations in the specific militia. they may attack complexes belonging to the empire of the specific militia they are declared against. they may not secure complexes belonging to the empire opposed by the specific militia they are declared against. they will be fired upon by npc navy forces of the empire to which the specific militia declared against is a member. any other abilities or penalties as may exist or be developed in future that may apply to opponents of a specific militia will be available but only with respect to the faction of the specific militia declared against. a given corporation or alliance should only be able to declare against one militia at a time.taking the case of my own organisation, the star fraction, and the amarr militia what would this mean? the star fraction and amarr militia corporations would be war targets to one another but caldari militia corporations would not share in this. the star fraction would be able to attack and capture amarr fw installations but not caldari fw installations. the star fraction would not be able to formally secure minmatar fw installations (or any other for that matter). the star fraction would come under attack from amarr npc navy forces but not caldari npc navy forces.this is a consistent and coherent approach to the issue which provides a way to participate in fw with some useful options. notice that it means people who wish to fight, say, the amarr militia but not the caldari will only be limited in their ability to travel and operate in amarr space and not caldari space. immediately a much more nuanced approach to the wars between the empires is available to those who may indeed support, say, the gallente federation but have no big quarrel with the amarr empire.it also allows for a much wider participation in fw by many corporations and alliances in a way that makes sense in rp/ic terms. mercenaries, freebooters, outlaws, minor faction loyalists, loyalists who don't want to be in any militia and alliances in general can declare against whoever and get involved without the absurdities (and impossibilities) that arise from enforced membership of militias. it squares the circle, both for in character reasons (ccp are right, alliances are extra-national entities ic, they have no business being in anyone's militia) and mechanical reasons, of alliances not joining militias.eve is a more mature and deeper game of war and politics than the current fw arrangements allow for and this suggestion seeks to improve matters to the benefit of the whole game. there are more levels of detail it is possible to discuss with regard to this proposal but they are more properly a matter for ccp to consider. what is presented here is the broad design suggestion that there be a fully-featured against option for entry into factional warfare participation without the necessity of joining any militia.cosmo"
"thank you for posting this individually. i believe this is well done. the external reading on your blog is also helpful."
"makes a lot of sense, and would get more people involved in fw pvp, which is a good thing. excellent work, cosmo."
"this seems an entirely reasonable proposal."
"supporting."
"its a well thought-out, sensible and entirely constructive proposal that provides balance to the potential participants and moreover, will definitely supply a boost to participation in the flagging fw arena and enable small-scale pvp to a wider audience while allowing rp entities to more properly express their opposition to specific causes. i'd urge the csm to consider this proposal seriously and i hope that a champion can be found to promote and argue this concept to the current council and ccp in the formal meeting to come."
"while i don't participate in fw myself, that is, in large part, because i don't want the baggage associated with being in a milita. this seems like a reasonable and balanced solution to that baggage.supported"
"i actually quite liked this idea in the other thread - it's a way for alliances to get involved in fw without them actually joining a militia with enough downside not to make it grieftastic. i'll give it till next wednesday for people to comment in here about it and if erik (who seems to want to champion anything fw related) hasn't picked it up, i will."
"very happy to give this my support."
"definitely, yes"
"supported"
"supported!"
"yup"
"absolutely!"
"i'd love to see this happen, but i think your downplaying the effect it would have on trade. yes, its too much for a single trader to make an alt network to go hub to hub... but if players can get together and form banks and stock exchanges, do you really think its beyond possibility a corp could get together and form a jump bridge network and charge traders to use it? a medium sized corp with alts all cyno v capable would do the trick. just charge for fuel + a fee to use the bridge. you'd make billions.so, i'd love to see it, but i think you need some type of assurance we won't see traders using this to neigh-instantly get from one hub to another."
"first - i think was asked above - wtf are you doing mining during wartime without adequate protection? there's little to no advantage in this scenario, because as it stands, a good gank squad will just throw tacklers into the system and warp in on top of you.if the cyno alt pops the cyno right on top of you, pop the alt. he's gotta be in wt gang for cyno, so he'll be shootable (set your overview right). if he pops a cyno at a nearby planet or something, you'll see your wts pop into system just as if they'd come in a gate and you can get your miners out. the balance is held in that the target corp would effectively be able resume logistics with the same toolset. there's little/no way that with effective cov cyno hopping, you couldn't move your haulers around.edit: now with thumbs up. also - took me 6 tries to post."
"the alt cyno ship, so long as it has not engaged in any aggressive action towards \"you\", and has not given direct assistance (repair) to \"the wt's\", will not be flagged even if in the wt's fleet.i agree with disagreeing here - but no, the miners (and/or their protection) would not be able to shoot the cyno if he is not, themself, a wartarget (or conditionally flagged to you)."
"agreedregards,jerus."
"/signed"
"i like more drone upgrades, but not being able to add more bandwidth module, would make every bs a domi with better guns."
"would be nice to have something to increase drone bandwidth, perhaps a drone rig that increases bandwidth by 25 bandwidth, but have an associated drawback. i support the high slot module too.+1"
"very interesting ideas :-) maybe for strategical reasons, some of this might be introduced rather as rigs than modules. but right now 3 drone upgrades... seem a bit poor to me, as well..."
"exactly. you said it perfectly...you don't have what it takes to kill the ship.good that you've admitted it.move along people."
"supported. killmail should show pilot hitting themselves for top damage with \"self-destruct\" as a weapon, as a final blow and no fitting is shown.as of why? you were already dead due to being tackled and not able to get away, you merely quickened the process. you will still deny loot and fittings info to your enemies as well."
"that is not proper logic. think before you post.a killmail means you killed them. you assume, since you're attacking, that you've killed them. you have not if they self destructed.also, a person could be under attack by one frigate, themself in a battleship, and could self destruct. (could as in \"may\", if they're stupid). this doesn't imply that the frigate killed the battleship, or was causing innevitable death."
"if you don't have what it takes to get the kill, you don't deserve any reward. short and simple. besides, considering how eve really is a griefing game, and looking at the wannabee l33t lads going up against the wall over this, just for that alone it's worth it btw, you already are csm member now, you won a seat, no need to work the masses anymore"
"/not signedself destruct take 2 minutes.if you don't have the dps to kill it in the 2 minutes delay, then you get no \"kill\"mail."
"i think the whole proposal is a very good idea. supported! i don't believe there is a need to keep the timer updated between the server and the client, so this wouldn't create more load on the server. the timer can start when the server-side one does, and then countdown on its own until it's over, unless it's renewed by another agression.however as you said, only ccp can confirm that for sure."
"i remember from my short stint in 0.0 the lack of the aggression timer, and it annoyed me. i agree, as the client should take care of it (it should be much less trouble than the module timers). supported."
"definite support for some sort of timer/fix"
"ccp listened to players earlier, and removed it."
"support"
"why not should be simple to implement me thinks, would be nice for jumping through gates as well.have a red timer for two minutes display if you have no-dock/jump aggro and have yellow one show the remainder of the 13 minutes in the fashion of the gbc and the ratting timer."
"even if intended now as a gang/fleet supporter, that ship should be useful as well in solo, so any more useful bonuses / fitting stuff should be given... as an alternative, a t2 myrmidon might be created to be another bc-sized drone ship with good dronie bonuses stronger than ishtar"
"i think all of us have forgotten our drones at one point or another, which brings up the topic of getting them back and the possibility of others stealing them.i propose that if someone forgets their drones, they can continue to view their drone info in the \"drones in distant space\" drone window. if the owner warps back into the control range of his drones, he can then right-click his drone window and reconnect to them, much like reconnecting to probes. this would then put the drones back into his control. this would also be possible, and extremely more useful, in the case of unintentionally disconnecting.i've had only a couple instances where i had forgotten my drones and they were still listed in the \"drones in distant space\" window, and when i had warped back to them, i still had control. this seems to be a mechanic that, to me, should work 100% of the time - if it's not working, give us a reconnecting option, please. battleships are slow, and flying around at 150m/s to scoop up your primary source of dps, in some cases, is frustrating. on another issue that has been mentioned here is drone stealing. drones are never intentionally left and there should be possible repercussions for stealing them.my second proposal is on something else that doesn't make sense - drone damage. i've seen some forum posts before about drone damage and asking ccp to enable players to view it. please let us enable the viewing of drone damage. there are many players whose primary damage source is drones, and, quite frankly, it doesn't seem fair that they can't view it. it also doesn't make much sense why drone damage cannot be viewed, whether it be logical or technical; players can see what damage drones are inflicting upon them, why can't the owners of those drones? drone damage was displayed in the log a couple years ago. refresh my memory, why was it changed?lets hear it."
"while your proposal makes some sense to me, i would be much happier if drones that were left behind, would go instant rogue and started attacking all targets on the grid in order of weakest to strongest. it sure would make the end of cap ship battles far more entertaining."
"supported - reconnecting to drones would be useful and reasonable."
"drones rely on targetting assignments. once they loose their controller, they are useless. even so, drones retain corp information -- they wouldn't fire on corp/fleet mates."
"well, drone losses due to disconnects are really annoying. i support the idea of reconnect. with the new scan probe system, it proved useful and functional, so why not with drones... whereas that prob with drone stealing... i think its ok so far, as when just forgetting them its not a technical mistake, but our own. maybe drones could be given free to scoop up for anyone only when the owner leaves the system or docks..."
"yes, upgrading clones is completely rediculous. especially when you can lose all your sp by not doing so. it is a feature that will drive potential customers away from eve, resulting in lower sales for ccp. if ccp had half a brain, they would do away with it.why risk almost everything a player has based on one little click of a button. such a rediculous requirement..."
"not supported. this is eve."
"and loosing games like \"lets see how often we have to pod him before he looses that skill\";) sadly that transport pilot still seems to have that skill.naw. not support."
"not supported."
"you forgot drunk or high.lost bc 5 and clarity 5 crew checking in.not supported. stupid idea."
"even a few ships using this creates a lot of unnecessary lag, i can't imagine how bad it has to be in large fleet engagements. maybe it could also be toned down to around the ship, i don't see why conceptually it is this big large effect area. i'd much better like it completely removed though."
"the effects are too visible imo aswell"
"the effect is large so that people who are using ecm know who not to target."
"module effects do not create lag. lag is network related, effects are not using the network.what you think is \"lag\" is actualy a low frame rate (client-side only) and will only affect people with lower end machines.if you want to prove this, press ctrl-f to bring up the performance meter and look at the fps.most people playing eve online have decent gaming pc's, so if you want to get less \"lag\" then just lower the effects slider in your graphic settings or upgrade your hardware.those effects cause no problems for me.not supported."
"i, too, disagree. eccm is locally-rendered, and thus is dependant upon your prefered settings and hardware. i believe a great percentage people are capable of rendering this withou t a significant drawback in-game, thus warranting no actions from ccp."
"let them provide an option to turn the specific effect off then, something which would also be a big help with the clouds in space that sensor boosters create :/"
"the options exist: effects in general settings. if you disable this, however, you'll be unable to see other effects that are vital. more specific settings may be required."
"changes to graphics options to customise what you view may be the answerproposal - more graphics options"
"the combat logs are missing a lot of useful stuff.what is displayed : - dps weapons (project, laser, hybrid, missile) - warp scrambler/disruptor (sometime)what missing : - webs - drones - ewar!!!why?because the logs information can be useful for combat analyze after the combat but it's important to know who fire ecm on who, who got dampened by who.....). we need the complete logs and not a partial one!you can check why these log are useful here. as you see on this macro podkill, you have the timestamp for the start and the ending of the combat plus some information like the dps and with kind of wreaking damage i have done. the warp scrambling entry is not always in the logs and need to be fixed too."
"drones!! i need to know if my sentries are hitting, and for how much :("
"interesting. i can see some real advantages to logging this stuff, and not just the crazy uber-killmails you've put together there. supported."
"sure, why not? we've seen what 27 ddds on a battlefield can do, so clearly it needs a nerf. make it so that 27 ddd2's will pop the titans firing them. that's a fix, right?"
"more like 5 ddd2's will pop a titan, wait no, then itd only take 2-4 ddd to take down a cap fleet, goons would exploit this"
"killing people is an exploit?signed."
"the problem is that adding t2 cap modules will just make them the new standard for cap pilots, which makes it even harder for new players to obtain a reasonable base in cap ships.the only reasonable request is for t2 cap guns, because there actually is a difference in combat style between t1 and t2 guns with the extra ammo."
"shhh!"
"/agree with topic and with draith, moms must get a buff. there have been many things posted to chnage them, many ideas. but yet ive heard nothing from ccp about doing anything about it. -ccp, if you think there fine as they are now, ok. but for the love of god, make them bigger so i dont punch a hole in the wall when i see a dread thats the same damn size dock!!!"
"yes, that surely would be a nice thing to have... not standing at the gates after hours of ap-jumping maybe selecting a specific station in the beginning would be even more useful. might save a lot of ships flying in the systems an thus reduce a bit server load as well, who knows"
"only if you warp to the station at 15km, and have to slow boat to the docking point, before docking.--edit damm thumb"
"title says it. remove any collision from acceleration gates. it is just frustration when the game decides to play total ****** and warps you right into the frickin gate. especially if you are in a battleship, exhumer, orca, or whatever else it is you fly and that behaves like a brick.any collision check can just be removed from that gate, because there are no game balance issues with it whatsoever and the game does not get any better by getting stuck in the bloody thing."
"yes, i am totally in favour of my suggestion. especially since it is a no-brainer to code it into any future patch. probably takes no more than a few seconds to get it done, so priority should not matter at all."
"i agree this is extremely annoying, but i don't know if this would be the way to fix it. they should probably just fix the bounding boxes of the gates instead, or make it so you can't warp that close to a gate."
"surprisingly, i agree with kaylan. especially that second bit. i would be in favor of 'warp to 0' on an acc gate putting you at the edge of activation range.that said, this is even frustrating in a cruiser. i can't imagine how it feels in an orca."
"i can't remember how many times i got stuck in this already be it in my starting days with mission and later on exploration.supported."
"y tu, de'veldrin?op is backwards: the desired fix is the warp-in distance. you're attacking the result of a error, not the error itself.before they restricted smartbombs next to gates/stations (range of 5k, at least), the issue was that you could get insta-popped in 0.0 by these smartbomb fleets. was the fix to make you appear more than 30km away from the gate when you jumped in? no!. the fix was to restrict the action not the result.sorry... good call-out, but you're pointing at the wrong thing."
"supportedspending 10 minutes wriggling a battleship out of a gate is never fun."
"yah man! whatever you be saying man, it makes perfect sense. but then, who be carin' about how, it needs some fixing aight! i be supporting dis topic, as it be sounding like a good fix for me mission w***ing.cheers man./peace out"
"i concede your point. i'm still in favor of the idea of reducing the frustration of acc gates."
"(it seems my purpose here is to point out the folly in peoples propositions and declarations of late. i appologize with due respect in comments like such, but they call for contextual debate..)surely your experience being stuck inside a gate does not warrant the op's submission in-game. either you moved your ship into that gate (aligned or however), or you landed \"inside\" the gate's ring. the first is a personal issue that requires user common sense; the second is an issue and should spawn it's own (and new) discussion."
"that is another way to fix the problem, but i don't care which is used."
"well, i agree, a nicer possibility to harvest gas clouds would surely be nice - let it be for wh-t3 gases as for booster stuff or maybe future other materials made from gases. in my opinion it would do if there wasn't needesd a turret slot for them, so we could fit them onto barges/exhumers without problems. if not that, a gas harvesting ship not requiring much other than basic gas cloud harvesting skill might be nice as well..."
"thanks for the suppoort :d"
"you've put enough time in this to get my thumbs-up icon.some things i don't agree on, but hell... i think ccp could do well with your suggestions."
"yes yes yes"
"some items don't peform the same task but get the same icon which is really weird, think of pg upgrade items.so supported."
"part of the genius of the system is the diminishing returns. it's why newbies can compete with vets - a guy with 1m sp can fly a t1 frig about 2/3 as well as a guy with 100m sp, instead of 1% as well. you need more sp put into a field to be less efficient than the early sp investments, because otherwise you're playing old players online. if you have enough time to take a skill to 5 - and believe me, a lot of players do - you have enough time to spend that effort even if it's only as good as level 1 was. not supported."
"this.horrible idea not supported."
"i think this is a good idea over all and could be very balanced.however the problems are in the details of your proposal and the main reason you dont have any votes at this point.if this was applied in the opposite fashion of what you are suggesting it could workyou are saying most skills should get a level 5 boost, with a few being left alone for balance, but actually for it to be balanced and not screw everything up, it would apply to very select skills and not any othersfor ccp to figure out which skills should get this level 5 bonus would take going over the entire skill system and looking at many, many different situations, then forum discussions and talks with us the player base, and thats before any programing or anything technical"
"herschel covered the main reasons why i am also echoing the no votes.an additional reason is game balance. not only would ccp have to go over the entire skill tree to identify which skills 'qualify' for the boost, they would then have to evaluate each of those skills and their effects on in game ships, modules, and other effects to make sure they don't unbalance the game."
"agreed. no."
"herschel pretty much covered it and therefore not support."
"oh yes! please! want that, make it so that older players have even more advantages! that's brilliant.btw, you're mistaken when you say: 5% extra. it's never 5% or 3% or 2% extra, it's 25% instead of 20%. believe me, it's different. and besides, look at it this way:small hybrids lvl5, 25% extra dmgsurgical strike lvl5, 15% extra dmg, total: 40%now add rail spec. lvl4, total 48%increase it to 5, and the total is 50%trust me, it makes a diference. not to say that moar bonus is bad."
"i think the \"drones in distant space\" needs to be fixed. if you forget them or disconnect and then come back, \"reconnecting\" to your drones to regain control would not only make sense, but would be very helpful.others have stated that \"drones are free loot\" like salvage; i disagree to this - maybe they are now, but i think this should be changed. lost drones and salvage are hardly the same thing. salvage can be intentionally left, however, when drones are left i think everyone can assume it was not the owners intention; in the case of disconnecting, it can't be helped.i fully support the op."
"wtf. you're in privateer alliance, supposedly a pvp alliance. stop crying."
"virus, imagine if everyone in jita had their drones out, which they don't currently cause of lag and loss of drones.just consider it.i know it sucks, i've lost plenty and stopped letting them out. what we need is quicker launch and attack for drones."
"not supported.however i do like the re-connect to drones option once you land back on grid."
"good to see you meissa."
"anyone else notice the cans you jetison are smaller but hold more then a gsc? something is seriously wrong with thatedit: a pod also seems bigger then a drake"
"agreed,oh and to the op, that merlin comparison for scaling seems a bit familiar ;p"
"for the umpteenth time, ccp still need to get their art and ui people to fix the damned probing interface."
"maybe he wanted to say, that for the same reason battleships can fit into carriers and freighters have much more cargo-space than you'd think possible when comparing sizes to industrials. that may even be the reason why freighters cannot loot normal wrecks (they can't, can they? i once read something like this), because they employ a high-density space-folding technology that needs certain conditions to allow loading and unloading.and about the windows. maybe they aren't windows, but sensors or shield emitters or whatever shiny stuff modern spaceships need to work properly. i mean, come on, windows in a spaceship bigger than a 1-man fighter? why? even with high-end sci-fi material technology they're probably weaker than the rest of the superstructure (otherwise you'd build the rest out of the same material, i guess), let alone armor, and who needs to look out of a window, if every angle of space around the ship is covered by camera drones?what i want to say: for me the current ships' scaling works, maybe with a little bit of imagination, but i always thought, this would be mandatory in a setting like the eve universe anyway."
"in the real world a frigate looks like a piece of junk barely capable of defending itself. destroyers are slightly larger ships displaying decent firepower. cruisers are good sized ships capable of holding their own in any modern battle. battleships were/are large ships and one look at them said \"don't **** with me\". carriers are huge ships and the new super carriers about to enter construction make even those look small. please reflect proper ship size in eve.p.s. i work for the us navy."
"supported!the archon example is classic and perfect. battleships would *not* fit in that ship hull."
"the current scaling is really out of whack, stations looking like they can only hold 3 carriers and carrier looking like they can't hold even 1 battleships.however this might take a long time to improve as scaling them down is not as easy as it looks, the textures are made to exactly fit on the model and just simply scaling it down is not possible.however i really think that people should stop commenting that ccp should spend their resources otherwise. guess what you have no idea how ccp runs internally and neither do i, although i don't start talking out of my ass.supporting the thread to have the art department have a good look at it."
"i'm hoping you're wrong. it'd be nice to have someone sedate to be the voice of reason on the council for a change."
"yeah, but it's that 10% that takes it from \"lets make pos queue k?!?\" to a worthwhile and fairly easily implementable idea. i r serious yamamoto, this r serious pos queue thread.i forgot to support this."
"supported. i just set up a pos, and it was boring"
"supportin'"
"this is an angle that keeps coming up in my mind too.....if a player attacks a militia player then they should take standings hit against the militia and faction.this easily ties in with other mechanics to do with navy npcs etc."
"oh, please. i was grumpy way before i got my ass kicked twice at the polls."
"op's original proposal is not terribly good, but i'll agree that *something* has to be done regarding the fw relationships to non-fw ones.i don't have any easy solutions (or even better ideas ), but the fact remains that the current implementation leaves a lot of headaches for all sides.even though i'm not involved with fw, i think it's one of the most important things that ccp (and csm) should be looking at."
"-read the triage mod info... wheres the power coming from if it moves then? the carriers ass? /agreed with topic. jb's on motherships would put then into good use"
"omfdeity_of_the_week! why? just give me one good reason you should ever wish to get out of your pod. in here you are quite literally immortal. to go consorting with - well - meat? the flotsam and jetsam of humanity we kill without blinking a metaphorical eye in combat. the remnants of evolution you left behind when we chose to become part of your varied ships. come on now - it's really dangerous out there. you could get your remaining meat fried - totally killed. permanently!(at least it should be if cccp do it right. this needs to be the most dangerous thing any pod-pilot has ever done to make it worthwhile.)"
"there topic name changed.and yes it will lessen some wardecs because main tactic used is shoot a bit, rr, de-agress and dock, rince and repeat.now once you have agressed your only way to get out of combat is to either warp out of station grid or dock at another station in the system.this however won't be easy because you will have points on you so you would have to fit wcs, this in turn lessens the buffertank some people have.your actually facing more of a challenge that way and agressing people has more chance to get repurcussions.next to that it's insane someone can undock, fly 50km away from a station and still be in dockingrange.ccp increased the stayingpower of ships a lot, the de-agressiontimer however has remained the same, docking range is way out of order.fix those things and voila, if you wardec a corporation you have 2 choices, stay docked or actually engage in a fight without hugging tactics."
"should name changes be allowed? i can thinks of a few good reasons to allow or not allow it. it would seem to me the most obvious reason not to allow it would be to hide your identity from other players.i personally think this could lead to new depths of game play and bounty hunting. like one name change a year for an isk fee or something and you would have to make a post on the forums, but you have a serial number keeping records of you, new skills could allow different levels to tracking a person. all names changes could be tracked, or something.this would allow those who hate having a crap name the made up a year ago and are stuck with, but those who are trying to hide are not really avoiding the system as they would want to, at least from more experienced players, which another point entirely."
"we can change our names?"
"name changes are allowed - sell your old character, buy a new one. anything past that i can't support."
"well i have been a vice-secretary... secretary tasks can take quite a lot of time, but it is quite a special role. when i was only doing the regular csm stuff, i spent about one hour a day reading forums, assembly hall, speakers center and the hungarian forums who are primarily responsible for voting me in. to this you can add about one hour a week to read and process all the issues being raised, plus i spent about one to two hours discussing them with my experts, depending on the issues. then we had meetings lasting at least 2 hours, plus preparing and maintaining my own issues (and sometimes other people's issues) in the wiki, thats another hour or two. this is 13 hours so far.and time to time there were special tasks as well, ccp asked for our opinions about this and that, needed extra preparation, and there were times where we had to spend time doing internal organization, like mailing around, priority votes, moving stuff from csm wiki to evelopedia, etc etc... you get the idea. it can be pretty time consuming."
"it was in the blog announcing the csm, but otherwise the csm got told at the first meeting."
"is that the first one? seems there should be an online meeting around mid-july, i'd expect."
"nope, that's the first one.we do have the monthly q&a's starting pretty soon tho."
"could be worse - your pet issue could be caught up in limbo from csm/ccp 2.3 and you could have gone better than two months without hearing any answer. seriously though, i think meissa's concerns are valid here. people react better to waiting than they do to rejection without explanation."
"/signed"
"/signed"
"i agree"
"supported"
"gogogogogo!"
"need more support for this topic guy, keep the thumbs up comming."
"don't let them railroad you, because they love to do that. and i hope you would not fall into a trap like rest of the csm where the trip to iceland and a circle-jerk at ccp, plus their own petty concerns, have outweighed the needs of the community, or had them turn blind eye to something asked, begged, and demanded for almost 4 years now. i am a very private person, do not want anyone digging around my life, or have copies of my passports, or anything like that, otherwise i would have ran for csm myself on the sole premise of fixing pos - thats it. one main issue as a focus. oh well."
"supporting this awesome idea."
"it's come up on the other thread and do wonder how standings might be used for non-wardec situations also.the game has sec status and the combat zones are low-sec which takes care of this to some degree.....npc corps adjust their standings to players and corporations based on what you do for or again their pilots.it could be possible that there is some room here for the players in a militia to act much like npcs when it comes to standings, allowing attacks on anyone who has shown -5.0 worth of hostility. this would mean that the militia would effectively wardec anyone who makes a regular target of faction pilots npc or otherwise. may have to actually trigger the wardec mechanic though, could get confusing as -5.0 isn't actually a legal attack in other situations but just an indicator of the relationship.....it gives an automated standings setup for a non-player controlled \"alliance\".... which sounds handy....food for thought anyway, i can't see a complete solution yet but all the pieces are out here on the forum..."
"this is exactly what i was trying to say in the little bit in my post:"
"thank you for taking the time to look this over, oz, and i'm grateful you are minded to pick it up if no-one else does.cosmo"
"oz picked this up before me so i'll let him roll with it if erik doesn't. looks pretty cool from my end. supported."
"so, you're proposing a method whereby corporations could take part in fw and be able to take credit for the militia's successes without any prospect of also taking the blame for their failures?maybe that's a bit harsh, but there's so many other ways that fw could be improved, such as allowing corps that are also in alliances to sign up.there might also be issues arising from one side's third parties not being able to shoot at another side's third parties."
"i will support anything that will let my rp minmatar republic loyalist alliance take part in the rp minmatar storyline, though as the mechanic for letting corps sign up to the militia is already there, regardless of whether or not they are in an alliance, that might be simpler, especially as the option to defend would be important for us."
"i don't know about harsh  i am not proposing this for any one side's benefit but to what i believe is a general benefit  but it's not quite right. it seems to rest on a notion that only conquests of systems can be successes and only losses of systems can be failures. it may be that people are allowed to get away with such a portrayal but that's what counter-propaganda is for.i think there's a level of detail to how things are interpreted that could be gone into but it's both for ccp design and also ccp story-telling to take care of. for example, i would suggest that only full militia members should get acknowledgement from the empires in the form of medals and so forth. on the other hand, a really outstanding third force could get a news mention quite legitimately if they truly deserve credit.allowing individual corps that are also in alliances to sign up is, i think, in conflict with ccp's view of what alliances are and what the empires are, as well as being problematic from a mechanical point of view (though nothing should be insuperable, i would agree) - but it would also be fairly problematical in terms of such things as an alliance having only one corporation exposed to the dangers involved while the majesty of its apparatus as a whole can support them logistically and in other ways. that is where the concord war dec of old retains its usefulness. a particularly troublesome third force can be decced by an opposing third force. this is an instance where the concord war is precisely the right tool for the job.at any rate, i am flexible as can be on details and implementations. the main principle for me is the 'against' option for meaningful and active entry into fw and the suitable balance and checks required to make it work are a matter for ccp's judgement.cosmo"
"ok then, let's consider the following...under this proposal we'd be left with a situation where corps in the militia would be getting shot at the opposition's militia, the opposition's allied militia, and the oppositions's third parties, but the third parties would only be getting shot at by the enemy militia.now, given that 90% of eve doesn't like being regularly outnumbered, why would the average corp join the militia rather than adopt third party status?"
"you may have noticed that i haven't suggested a specific hurdle in terms of enabling a corp or alliance to declare against a militia. this does not mean that i think there should not be one. it may be financial, it may be a standing hurdle, it may be both or it may be something i'm unable to come up with at the moment but ccp might. that's an important element of balance that would i am sure be looked at and i have no problem with it being looked at. i mention this before dealing with:aside from not wishing to overcome whatever hurdles may or may not be involved with declaring against a militia, in order to be able to defend their faction's systems, to gain the rewards and recognition that is only due to full militias and for all the important roleplay reasons that you and i would support.i do actually anticipate some shifting out of certain corporations to third force status. i think it actually would be better for the integrity of the militias and make for coherent roleplay within the militias.note that i don't conceive this suggestion as being implemented, if at all and in whatever form, on its own. i would be startled and amazed if only a single change of this kind was made to fw in its next development cycle. but i'm conscious that i can't suggest an entire raft of reforms with one proposal and expect it to be taken up.i think people who care about fw should be making proposals on improving plexing and general occupation/conquest mechanics, making fw more meaningful and consequential, dealing with the balance on attack and defence, etc.this proposal is about unlocking fw for greater participation that makes sense with regard to the cases of a) alliances and b) corporations that don't wish, for whatever reason, to sign up with a militia.anyway, thanks for the questions, they are important to consider.cosmo"
"i think it's probably the best way presented of enabling alliances to enter fw tbh...the only problem i see here is the inability of allied fw entities to aid each other in these circumstances, however, i can't recall the last time i saw amarr and caldari or gallente and minmatar joint fleets."
"in principle good idea i think. however fixing fw lag should always be higher priority, doing this wouldnt be usefull anyway when the only result is that alliances can now also get desynced if they try something more than fighting solo."
"brilliant in concept. would love to see the bugs worked out and something like this implemented. well done cosmo."
"yet.if this were to happen you'd see min/maxed domi camps rring each other with deployed sentries and sensor boosters that make low sec even more unattractive to the casual pilot than it is. low sec needs a boost, not more incentives not to go there."
"whether he jumps into a camp of the above nature or a current lowsec camp the casual player is still boned either way.really, how many of the permacamped 0.0 chokepoints are camped in such a fashion where people don't have to worry about sentries at all?"
"are you saying miners are an unballanced lot? nah, you're probably right, and right again sayng this desperately need fixing. the hop from skill l1 (smallest barge) to l3 (middle barge) is fair, imho, but on account of the sheer time involved, and their relative merits, dragging yourself to l5 for the biggest barge is out of order.motion supported."
"yes that true, but if you learn exhumers, if you want 3 months old account can fly them. what is next? nothing that is pretty fast. why don't we have real capital mining ships with capital mining strips?p.s. i have orca and rorqual but they are not capital mining ships. they are barely command mining ships."
"supported."
"kaito haakinen (i bet i've got that wrong), clansworth, jamie balton, all along with the original post...genius.when can we have this please?"
"i think i'd have to agree with making some changes to the way mining works, and the availability of minerals. thumbs up."
"yes."
"supporting more orbit options, i hope ccp is readin this."
"ive wanted this since the first mission i ransupported"
"supported."
"hi.i think this was already discussed before, but i at least want to know, why we have a new, interesting, cool and quite expensive ship class, and bad thing is when you lose it, you need to wait 5 days without training, just to fly it again in all lv-5. i mean, why should be any unnecessary bad thing? or good equipment, proper pay to manufacturer and proper time to training(once) for use this, just like any other ships..."
"1.0"
"because ccp *** on old wolfs. they love n00bs. they don't giving as new thinks, and we have day by day more and more sp. what is simpler give us new, better whatever ... or take ours sp?"
"but noobs have even more skils to train and they don't have all learnings and implants..."
"i have a idea, new skill - \"-20% chance of skill downgrade\", rank 16, problem solved"
"not supported.i think it's very cool that it takes balls to fly such a ship, and that one shouldn't be encouraged to roam alone in them. take them out in a well thought through gang and make sure your wingmen protect your ass."
"supported. i see very few reasons why not. and many many reasons why."
"very good idea"
"drone bonus for eos \o/supported."
"i dont think every station should be a kickout. there needs to be \"some\" chance of survival.but i do agree glass windows would be very good."
"i'll be brutally honest here... there are enough station games going on as it is.if you are living in 0.0 in a sov controlled system in a known kickout station then you should have enough people cutting about to give you eyes on any potential neuts/hostiles in system.i'm all for making all stations kickouts, it would certainly make things a bit more saucy though would cause some havov for a lot of stations... however increasing the dock radius on current kickouts will make a lot of things stale and just increase the amount of docking games going on.zastrow's concern seems to be with 0.0 outposts more than anything, if you're unable to defend your space effectively then you shouldn't be there.the wily player knows which stations are kickouts and which aren't. it's one of those tidbits of information that adds to what keeps those in the know apart from those who aren't."
"first, machinima (movies made using video games) is awesome. just look at clear skies or day of darkness 2. walking in stations promises to greatly enhance the ability for players to make interesting movies, as you'll actually be able to portray the pilots and stations themselves (instead of using half life 2, or only showing ships).as such, i propose to ask ccp to keep machinima in mind when designing walking in stations, especially with the wis camera controls. perhaps this is already in the works (we dont know), and perhaps it isnt. but as it is being implemented i think it would be a great loss if ccp passed up this opportunity for machinima."
"supported."
"*thumbs up*"
"yes, and give us lvl5 courier missions for freighters."
"anyways just throwing this out here. how does everyone feel about a one time in a lifetime, or a one time every 2-3 years to redistribute your sp (or only 50% of your sp). i know quite a few newer players who have made mistakes on skills they trained up and now are stuck with skills that they dont use. i myself have this same problem when i was a younger player and flew caldari. i quit and came back to perfer minmatar as i then understood the game and its mechanics more, but i was stuck with 4 million sp in missile launcher operation. tbh i would perfer a once per lifetime of a character use or a once every 3 year use as this is a much bigger change then redistributing attribute points."
"well we have attributes remap once every year, so why not skill remp?"
"because this would just make people dump all the useless skills they trained and specialize them - so now everyone could be epic killing machines of doom.you trained it knowing you couldnt go back - keep it that way."
"that all depends on how much sp you trained for skills other then what you specialize in. tbh most of the skills that we regret training happen when we are newbs. this is mainly to help solve that issue. also with newer players coming in and with so many \"regular\" players with 20m+ sp, the newer players stand a lesser chance against all these specialized sp players (assuming they have half a brain to fit the ships correctly) especially when they have no clue what they are doing as far as what skills to train.something similar was said about attributes i believe."
"this.there's a world of difference between optimizing skill training time using attributes and redistributing actual skill points. some of the things which would happen:1. extreme specialization. you meet a guy in a ship = he probably has perfect skills for it.2. assigning roles. once corporations and alliances can decide exactly how many tacklers, cap pilots, probers etc. they want, they will start telling people to respec.3. fotm to the extreme. all of a sudden everyone would start flying the 3 or 4 currently \"best\" ships and then whine after a nerf that they've \"wasted\" their skill redistribution. this is in fact no different from whining about \"wasted\" skills today but today it actually makes sense.those are obviously additional points to consider aside from the obvious: character development has consequences, you're shaping a specific character with a specific history. attributes have always been secondary and easily manipulated (learnings, implants) but skills are something else.sorry, no support."
"no.well, onli if you lose 50% or more of redistributed sp.because when you have 5 million of useless sp, it's not just \"oops\", you spend monts on this..."
"no. this has been brought up before, and the answer is still no."
"no - terrible idea, sorry."
"it's already in game, it's called the character bazaar."
"you never know if you wouldnt need the skills later. so just keep them.not support."
"[proposal] warp scrambler.the recent changes to warp scramblers have made them too overpowered imho. i suggest a small change to decrease their power to something more inline and correct.change the warp scramblers ability to disable re-activation of mwd instead of immediate shutdown."
"this mod has ruined gallente blaster boats, ruined minmatar close range boats. it's forcing people to fit an afterburner, a 5th \"mandatory\" med slot module. tier 1 ceptors have become more useful in fleets than tier 2 ceptors because of this change too."
"no. no one is forcing you to fit an afterburner. before scram changes a 90% web also meant you werent going anywhere and it had more range.the gallente blaster boats with most issues are the megathron and the hyperion, especially the mega, but also the hype, dont have any serious problems reaching the 9km scram range (and that is not realistic that you are at exactly 9km). tracking is their problem, not range."
"why don't we just put them back to 2 points, that's it.stupid freaking change"
"when webifiers were 90%, you at least had a chance to drift off. with the warp scrambler change, it's instantdeath!"
"of course no one is forcing you to put an afterburner on, dont be stupid. but it's another mod you ideally dont want to leave the station without. along with a scrambler, a web, an mwd and a cap injector. lets put it this way: a megathron with 2 1600 plates and 3 trimarks (seems fairly normal to me) goes 822 m/s with an mwdwhen it's webbed with 90% that's:10% * 822 = 82.2 m/s top speed.when it's scrambled and webbed with 60% web its top speed is 116m/s, that's:40% * 116 = 46.4 m/sthat's almost 50% of the speed of a 90% web.so that's the problem with the current situation.ok?(got the speeds from eft with all lv 5 char)"
"supported, fix this **** mod"
"i replied in the other topic.and no one fits both mwd and ab, you just basicly dont ever need it, and if you need it, it isnt worth the downsides."
"scrams are great the way they are now. makes nano turds think before coming in range. i am glad that made that change and 100% back it up. keep up the good work on this one ccp."
"stopped reading a while ago, there is a solution, get a cruiser, fit it with ois and a 10mn mwd, start bumping macro miners, as for macro missioners, idk havent encountered any, but im sure theres a simple solution"
"are you really capital pilot?years old accounts deserve new think to, n00b lover. new players and capital ships wtf? at last you agreed to t2 capital guns. you are not as bad as you look."
"extra time sinks? in my eve?really, all this will do is raise the bar for new cap pilots. even currently you can't fly a capital unless you are this awesome in terms of jump skills, drone skills. adding an extra 4-5 months of training time so you can t2 fit your caps isn't something people will do willingly aside from specialised capital alts."
"i find that i am among like minded folk here.if i could wave the ol' magic wand(tm) i'd put all the slots back on the barges/exhumers. their removal was just callous cruelty to carebears...given that progress always tends to the lower denominators, i'd love to see a mining barge, and of course it's t2 cousin, with a really serious cargobay, for such solitary souls as myself. something that can take 10 drones to a belt, to mine, and to defend.i support the concept of existing public belts fading away..after all, reall rock doesn't respawn (does it?). but...only do it when a noob doofus of lo-tech ability can actually find scanned belts simply and quickly, and without gazillions of sp tied up in scanning skills / isk sunk into scanning ships and tech.so, bumping the two ideas together...take away the public belts, equip all mining ships (and i suppose i include the osprey and scythe here)with asteroid scanning facilities. add a fourth mining barge/exhumer with stunning cargobay capabilities. the scanning could be accessible when skills arrive, but which are not essential to fly the ship. (maybe the return of those slots should be included here ) the supersize-miner might require an easy-to-obtain extra skill, level 1, to use. of course higher levels increase the cargobay further, as with industrials.i am really glad to have found this thread, and endorse our representation on the council through omber zombie.motion supported"
"soo much to be done to the business side of the game but so little time ccp, here's a few things that come to mind.- corporation roles/management still a nightmare. give us detailed (!) description of what role does what.- public pos modules still bugged, and have been the past 2 years and more.- bpo unlocking/locking takes ages, give ceo the right to just unanchor the damn thing, or give shareholders the right to allow ceos that!- alliance-wide pos use plz, was promised eternities ago.- storefronts and a builder's info link on ships so we industrialists get credit for our work, not just isk.and finally, mining. lots of rumours are going around how mining mechanics are going to be changed, but i can only ask you to do this very carefully.many people (like me) have trained multiple accounts so they can mine efficiently - for example playing 3 hulks, a hauler and a rorqual at the same time. taking this possibility away (like was done to scanning with multiple accounts) will cost subscriptions and make many people very angry. i don't wanna sell my hulk pilots!on the other hand, mining has to change we can all agree on that. i would propose making it optional to mine actively:1) cut \"autopilot mining\" returns (with that i mean mining as it is done atm, with a 3 minute cycle time semi-afk) by 30%2) make it possible to \"be good\" at the minigame or whatever you have in mind for mining to boost returns.that way, people can still let their secondary and tertiary accounts mine (even with reduced income) and actually do something during those 180 seconds on their primary account.yue"
"yes that true, but if you learn exhumers, if you want 3 months old account can fly them. what is next? nothing that is pretty fast. why don't we have real capital mining ships with capital mining strips?p.s. i have orca and rorqual but they are not capital mining ships. they are barely command mining ships."
"giving my support here. industry > walking in stationswalking in stations is alot less important than one of the main core aspects of eve."
"something to think about....it's come to my attention that there are some quite sophisticated hacks to the eve-client to enable auto-pilot to 0km.given that half the universe is likely using these, the rest of the population should get this feature as well."
"the most popular one by far is \"not using auto pilot\"."
"if you know of a hack to the eve client, petition it to the developers. because the game might be hacked for a few nefarious people does not imply that the very physics controlling the game should be altered as well.as far as the autopilot to 0 suggestion, it's been suggested numerous times before, and the answer has always been no. it used to be that we had to move to 15 km all the time, but that was changed to the relief of the players of this game. the system works, as there is now a penalty to go with the advantage of each travel method.not supported."
"if you want to warp to 0, click. if you want to use the autopilot you warp to 15k.not supported."
"no support."
"\"not using auto-pilot\" is the most popular.auto-pilot to 15km makes sense to me.however if no one uses it, it becomes a non-feature.then if some people are able to use it while others can't, it becomes an issue that can easily be solved by giving everyone the feature.worth some discussion if nothing else..."
"no support here. fly manually if you want to warp to 0."
"i'd support wtz autopilot in high security space."
"wow, you really produce your stupid threads at an amazing rate.would you care to explain the reasoning which led you to believe that \"no one uses it\" and that \"half the universe is using\" hacks?yeah, i thought as much..it's not high security that makes a difference. it's war or suicide ganking. those are both viable in high sec and wtz would seriously screw with them. yes, there are many people flying on auto during a war."
"support! because if you know how to play, you can even stop players that are warping to zero. besides, autopilot still wouldn't be able to get you out of bubbles. afk is afk is wishing for an early death."
"hi, i think that because there are people out there who hack peoples bank accounts, we should all be allowed to access each others bank accounts, just to make it fair. thank you."
"supported."
"you need to stop posting bro."
"no support."
"definitely not supported. this is not eve afk."
"this, i'll look to bring it up at some point with this proviso. will make suicide ganking that little bit easier at trade hubs."
"as long as it is implemented in this fashion it has my full support."
"[proposal] mwd stabilizer.the recent changes to warp scramblers have made them too overpowered imho. i suggest that a new module should be introduced to balance the power.microwarpdevice stabilizer i.when activated this unit attempts to compensate for fluctuations and scrambling of the ships microwarpdevice."
"supporting this, as i supported the other one: lets put it this way: a megathron with 2 1600 plates and 3 trimarks (seems fairly normal to me) goes 822 m/s with an mwdwhen it's webbed with 90% that's:10% * 822 = 82.2 m/s top speed.when it's scrambled and webbed with 60% web its top speed is 116m/s, that's:40% * 116 = 46.4 m/sthat's almost 50% of the speed of a 90% web.so that's the problem with the current situation.ok?(got the speeds from eft with all lv 5 char)"
"fix this gay mod plox"
"so with 2 mods used your mega is 50% slower than it used to be with 1 mod (yes scram does also the disruptor part, but most ships will still need an additional disruptor to get better range). so now recheck with 2 90% webs."
"your other topic is of no interest to me, however i can see this being a viable change that could make things a little more balanced, and can appease both sides."
"no im talking about before and afterso that's scram + web before vs scram + web after.that's all, comparing apples to apples here, nothing more."
"changing the collision box to make it fit the gate skin tight, change warp to 0 to warp to the outer perimeter of the gate, or deleting the collision box. i don't care.i suggest to simply delete the collision from the gate, because it is the easiest possible fix. some objects in eve don't have collision and it does rarely break visual immersion. getting stuck in the gate is much more annoying than having to cope with the visual impression that the ship flies straight through it.last time it happened to my orca, it took me half an hour to get her out again and it was really frustrating. i even discoed two times, but whenever she warped back, she ended up stuck in the gate again. it also looked horrible, because she was not visually stuck. from the looks of it, she was hundreds of meters away from the structure. she still acted like a fish thrown in the desert, making spastic manoeuvres forth and back.eventually i got out using the same disco-mechanism-exploit, that some use in lowsec to avoid gate camps. if that had not helped, i would have had to make a petition and ask for a gm tugboat."
"i wonder where one gets a t2 tugboat from? must be one of those jovian ships."
"true."
"very few people gas harvest as it is, making people train another ship doesn't really help people get into this profession. i don't see a real reason for making gas harvesting more skill intensive."
"perhaps this is because it seems like there is little support by ccp for those who do gas mine. you see people gas mining in various flavors of combat ships (moa was suggested earlier in the thread) getting no bonuses what so ever.a dedicated ship would not only make gas harvesting more appealing (new ship, wee), it might even make a gathering profession a little less painful (bonuses)."
"leaving aside the chicken-and-egg stuff (my old brain won't cope with it before three cuppas), there is a large investment of gametime, and cold hard cash, by a player willing to adopt these specialist skills. (bows to all the gas miners) as well as that there are the risks incumbent with mining in the kind of systems where gas appears( not thatkind of gas...!)it is a matter of balance and respect from the designers/economists of ccp that they are allowed some benefit from their dedication.we are not all cut out to be chribba ( gods love him) and he, i dare say, should be given his due for what he brings to ccp's \"dirty little secret\"...some people have to mine to keep the game's economy going. a few of those people, well, might actually enjoy doing it, are prepared to support the rest of the game with their time and dedication, and should be rewarded accordingly; gas miners and tankers to haul the stuff would really stand out, as would mining tools elsewhere in the game."
"what? i only want bonus for one of ship we have. hulk, mackinaw or skiff, maybe skiff is the best. or strip gas miners, why new ship, skills?"
"this is not a huge issue & requires a minor tweak by ccp.i agree with others that the simplist is to include gas mining on the barges & exhumers.we curently work in a wh-c5 and use the ferox ship for gas mining, can fit the 5x t2 gas miners and provide a tank as well.i see no need for a new ship type just to cover this area."
"new ship class too much work?easy, give us gas rigs for our moas and feroxes, and then we specialize our ships to the task.yue"
"the ideas aer just general proposals and ccp would hammer out the technicalities themselves, with dev's and/or csm.im just aiming to get the idea out there and hopefully the csm will pitch it to ccp."
"i think it would be more fun to know who the market participants were.it would spark more conversations between players, possible cooperations, and likely more spirited rivalries. sometimes prices might be driven higher due to collusion, other times margins would be narrowed by more concerted efforts to drive a given trader out.true, this might encourage more trader alts, as corps might not want to risk retaliation or traders risk discrimination.i just think it would be more fun and give you more to talk about as a trader if you could see the names of all the bidders. politics, intrigue, building a reputation... aren't these things that deepen a mmporg experience, more important than maximizing isk?theyer"
"moar options are always good."
"bump. any news since a week ago? i apologize for being a pest, but i've been trying to find out how ccp responded to my issue (if at all) ever since they responded (or failed to respond) over a month ago, and have been waiting for the issue to be fixed for quite a lot longer than that. i suspect their answer was \"we lied, go screw yourself\", but i'd at least like to know the answer..."
"i was 1st alternate csm in the second council (and had the responsability to replace a councillor most of the time) yet i think i spended 12 hours a week minimum in order to be well prepared for the csm meetings and so be able to give my opninion and votes."
"or give us a better more epic one!"
"well, well, honestly that effect was not cool ^^ the new tunnel effect is nice, but it's a bit short..."
"hawk and vengeance both suffer from the inadequacies of rockets. fix rockets and they move way up the list of \"good afs\".matari afs with tracking bonus .. talk about being overpowered. near perfect resists for tank (easy to plug), very high damage for their class, capless weaponry and high speeds .. you want to add superior tracking to that list?enyo is scary as is, maybe allow for a pure gank fit by giving it a 5th gun slot, similar to what was done for zealot.ishkur is the best af currently, no contest. drones just add so much versatility that nothing really compares.quantum rise gave an indirect boost to the af class due to the new speed mechanics, but the class itself needs an overhaul as does so many things. make them matter as a whole and don't apply band-aid which usually end up being all thats done when the cries stop.no to deliberately overpowered ships!"
"when rockets are rebalanced i hope ccp are sensible enough to look at the ships that use them as part of it. a damage related 4th bonus for the hawk and vengeance, couple with whatever rocket changes are made, should bring them to around 140, 150 dps. seems pretty reasonable to me.your take on the minmatar afs is pretty staggering. to start with the obvious, your claim that they have very high damage for their class; the wolf has the lowest dps of all the \"gank\" afs (enyo, retribution, wolf and harpy, defined by slot arrangements and weapon bonuses rather than tanking bonuses). in fact the wolf is outdamaged by one of the \"tackle\" afs as well, the ishkur, which is frankly appalling. the jaguar fares a little better, beaten only by the ishkur in its category, but only because the rocket using afs are terrible. note that the ishkur puts out around 100 dps more than the jag in a typical set up. a tracking bonus is the perfect way to address this, as it allows the minnie ships to actually put their high speed to good use, countering for example the retribution or harpy by flying in close and attempting to speed tank, but when fighting an enyo try to stay at range and use their falloff to win.the ishkur needs to remain where it is and the other assault frigs should be brought to that level, in my opinion. i apologise to any ishkur pilots, but giving it another good bonus, like a drone damage bonus, would just be crazy."
"in the current situation destroyers do not forfill there role the way they should. they are suppose to be frigate killers, but in fact, you see them being used in pvp so rare, and when they are used, there efficiency is low, except for those rear cases when people using them have excellent plan and amazing setups. first of all, let's look at the balance between destroyers. what is the destroyer people love most? it is the thrasher.i find it stupid that thrasher dominates so much as a pvp destroyer. i tried all 4 destroyers in pvp and realised that thrasher dominates. i spent hours fitting catalysts and coercers, and could barely reach any efficiency close to that of a thrasher. does that mean that thrasher is overpowered? no, in my opinion it is the only somewhat worthy destroyer.so let's figure out why: thrasher: 70pg, 170 cpu, tracking and damage bonuscoercer: 75 pg, 160 cpu, tracking and cap bonuscatalyst: 60pg, 170 cpu, tracking and faloff bonuscomorant: 55 pg, 210 cpu, optimal and tracking bonusfirst of all, power grid, catalyst and comorant severely lack power grid. severely. catalyst has less power grid, same cpu as thrasher. why? comorant is a disaster, it cannot fit 7 150mm rails without any additional modules. all other ships in game can at least fit highest caliber guns of there class. conclusion n1: bring power grid of ll destroyer more in-line. increase power grid on catalyst and coercer. second problem i see are the stupid bonuses. let's start with a catalyst. we have bonus to falloff, and as a class they get bonus to optimal. so if i shoot rails i will use them in optimal, so the ship bonus is simply wasted. if i use blasters, then the optimal bonus is nearly useless as it gives me only extra 200meters, which is virtually nothing. conclusion: if it is suppose to be a blaster boat (which it probably is) change the class bonus to 50% bonus to falloff, and the ships bonus should be changed to bonus to small hybrid turret damage. comorant comorant receives bonus to optimal range, which means you would use it as mini-sniper boat with rails. if you are using rails at the limit of there optimal, you probably will not need the tracking bonus, so it would be of more use if comorant would receive a damage bonus instead.thrasherminmatar frequently fire in falloff even with arties. both close range and long-range setups for this ship would benefit if class bonus would be switched to bonus to falloff, instead of bonus to optimal. the third problem i see affects destroyer class as a whole, and that is the 25% rof penalty. destroyers are the shortest living ships in game: they are easy enough even for battlecruisers and medium drones to hit, and have effective hp of a frigate with a plate. (i achieved higher effective hp on a punisher then that you get on most destroyers) so if they live so little, at least make those few seconds they do exist on the battlefield worthfull! let them deal some proper damage! yes, it will increase damage of most setups by 25%, but i think this will not bring destroyers anywhere close to being overpowered, in my opinion it is currently one of the most underpowered ship class in game, they can neither escape the guns, nor tank them, so let's make there slogan \"kill, or be killed\".why that might be good: high-dps ships are good in pvp. fast high-dps ships are good in pvp. and destroyers are cheap to loose, that will make them perfect if you need to bring more dps to bear and haven't got much cash on hand. this will also make flying destroyers more exciting, they would unleash large firepower but would be fragile."
"slots:this is the final part of the proposal, and i do not view it as necessary, and not everybody agrees on this, but i think that this would be the final touch in making destroyers worthwhile ships. all battlecruisers have more slots then any cruiser in game, this enables them to tank additional damage they receive due to larger signature radius. then why do destroyers receive less slots then there frigate counterparts? let's have a look at tristan, we have 3 low and 3 med. slots, a total of 6 slots. all destroyers have 5 slots. i believe every destroyer deserves an extra slot."
"yes to grid and rof, no to extra slots (destroyers supposed to be glass cannons)"
"1 extra slot would not make them mega-tanks, let's face it. but as i mentioned above, slots aren't something i am conserned about that much. if they are glass cannons, let them be cannons."
"good basic idea. as other have pointed out it may need refinement but it has potential.i am in favour."
"i agree because sentries shooting drones unbalances the races in lowsec. the guys that fly ships that dont have large drone bays, dont care, or like it the way it is because they can launch a bunch of crappy t1 drones to help them tank....meanwhile gallente in general and all the racial drone boats like the geddon, phoon, etc get screwed. if we all had the same proportion of dps in drones, it wouldnt matter...but we dont."
"on behalf of the fading suns corporation, i would like to add our approval of this man, this veldatar, and the services he provides. he has saved ccp countless hours of development time and headaches by serving as a neutral arbiter and information clearinghouse, and the thousands of dollars every month he goes through in bandwidth isn't even remotely compensated by the piddling ad income he gets.although it really should be in rens. the amarr don't deserve chribba's titan."
"simple suggestion: make bookmarks linkable in evemails and chat windows, just like items are.clicking a link would open the \"add bookmark\" window and let you edit and save it.to link a bookmark, you would simply drag either it's item icon (if copied in a container) or the bookmark itself from your people & places window to a chat input box or an evemail body.this would allow everybody to share bookmarks simply without having to copy them as items, which has been a wanted feature for a long time already. it would also not require much development to do since it would be using the mechanics already in place (link window, and add bookmark window).i know some form of bookmark sharing has been requested in the past, but i haven't seen a post requesting simple bookmark linking without a whole bookmark sharing ui."
"yeah..."
"good sense. bookmarks as items have seemed insane to me for a while."
"no. you might not notice it at first but there's a lot of stuff why it makes sense that you actually need to hand over the bookmark personally."
"and i don't see any of those reasons as being valid. it just doesn't make sense to me that in a world so advanced technologically (universe of eve online), pilots can't share simple coordinates over a communication channel or evemail. it never made sense to me."
"scenario: a spy is with your gang in a safespot, bookmarks it, and links to a member of another gang in system. he never leaves fleet to draw suspicion, and the other gang doesn't even need to probe for you.in this iteration, i give an emphatic 'no'.i could support linking bookmarks in fleet only, as it could be useful; from a gameplay perspective i feel anything more could be too exploitable."
"i think that's irrelevant. spies are part of the game, and this would just make their role more realistic. there are several ways to counter spies (asking for the api key and retrieving all characters in same account for example). all this would do is make it slightly easier for them to relay secret locations, but i say again, only slightly easier.if you're that worried though, i would be for a restriction on which channels the bookmarks could be linked. i have nothing against it being only corp to corp, or corp to alliance, but not player to player."
"a bookmark is essentially either a system and three numbers, or a system and a globally visible object(like a station). it makes perfect sense that this should be able to be transmitted via chat channels. and it's not like this is going to overpower spying or anything - spies can already do far worse than giving you a warp-in."
"ran this in f&i for a couple weeks, implemented reservations/possible drawbacks. now let's see who can support this.tldr:provide some ship customization with limited colour schemes and corp/alliance logos.prelude:the call for options to customize one's ship as every player's primary in-game representation has been heard since the very first days of eve. even now, suggestions for this still pop up in the relevant sections of these forums every few days.so far, discussion of the issue has suffered from unrealistic expectations by its enthusiatic supporters and rather elitist contempt by its detractors.it is believed that a well-considered, evenly worded proposal will garner more universal support and a better basis for consideration by the csm and ccp.issue:even once walking in stations goes life, most players will continue spending the majority of their eve lifes in space, surrounded by their capsules and, beyond, the hulls of their ships. it is believed that their social and fictional experience would profit from the possibility to influence the looks of that spaceship and thus some form of individual expression in the game world.while there are a variety of ships to choose from, practical considerations usually decide which ships players will fly. some simple options for customization on any ship class would satisfy most players' desire to show some extra personality, attitude or allegiance.proposed solution:1. logos- every ship hull will feature two prominent spaces for their alliance (or empire) logo.- every ship hull will further feature two smaller spaces for their corporation logo.- ship holder decides for each logo to be displayed or not.- display of logos can be globally switched on or off client-wise.- loading of logos has lowest priority - they load last, and not at all if a node is under strain.2. colour schemes:- ship manufacturers can choose from a small (3 to 5) selection of 2-colour schemes to produce their ships with at no extra cost.- each of the two colours can further be determined from an 8-bit palette.- ship owners could re-colour ships at station services for a fee.- ship colour scheme/colours ('colour template') can be saved and traded similar to setups to create alliance/corporation/individual look.- display of non-default ship colours can be switched on or off globally by every player client-wise.- colour information has lowest priority - it loads last, or not at all if node is under any strain.3. info tab extension- info tab shows manufacturer (individual + corp + alliance at the time of production)advantages:- need for self-expression in space is satisfied.- solution is resource-friendly, needing only 15bit of information per ship from the server.- colour schemes prevent horrible eyesores by limiting creativity sensibly and leaving shaders/normal maps/etc. (representing hull structure/material) intact.- alliances can sport uniform fleets.- manufacturers can leave a stamp (of quality, hopefully) on their products.disadvantages:- alliance logos are not currently up to date.- tranquility will need to save and process a small amount of extra information.- logo placement, colour schemes, colouring interface need to be designed.- some players may find some customizations unpleasant/offensive/not as good as the originals.- some t2/faction ships only differ from their t1 counterparts by colour scheme. differentiation must remain possible visually. (ty fille)- daring colourists will find themselves ridiculed by the pvp elite for being little girls playing dress-up with spaceships.- manufacturers' stamps will only work for contracts, not for sale on general market, as items there must be identical for every type. (ty ausser)- metadata/'magic bits' will probably still blow up database load for colour scheme information more than intended. (ty ausser)"
"convincing arguments."
"repost... this has been suggested many many many times already. no need for another post for this."
"not at all. previous proposals have not been successful. maybe they were not good enough to garner sufficient support. i see no use raising any from their graves.my proposal is hopefully more well-considered, balanced, eloquent, detailed and clear. if it isn't, it'll be drowned by torrents of equally unfortunate suggestions in no time and swept from your dismissing gaze to page 27 of this section."
"eos is suck. it needs love. supported."
"eos is as sucky in a similar way than other similar purpose command ships like vulture, damnation, claymore. they're not meant to be pwnmobiles dps wise.information warfare bonus is just seemingly -a bit- less useful than other link bonuses. shield, armor and speed bonuses are easy to utilize in a way but not many ships get notable information warfare bonus. maybe eos could have links for increasing drone hp, range, tracking etc. damage bonus is big no no in my opinion though, drones already do enough damage."
"this needs to be looked into - not being able to see what is outside due to change mechanics on now how un-docking works...anyone with a warp ubble and a few friends can ruin your day when you can't do a thing about it."
"windows + kickout please.at the very least, remove the 40km docking range around most caldari stations (jita 4-4 and the like,) please."
"i agree.. also some stations have stupidly huge ducking radius, people can just play docking games as much as they whant, and you would have to smash them with mwd bs a few times to get get them out of range, not sure if even thatwould help."
"introduce new \"anti-capital\" fighters called \"fighter bombers\".basicly these new fighters would have high damage, high alpha and be fragile to counter-attacks. \"balor\" igallente bomber dronevolume 10,000 m3max velocity 750 m/secorbit velocity 100 m/secoptimal range 40 kmarea of effect 2,500 mexplosion velocity 50 m/sec explosion radius 800 m rate of fire 12.50 sec damage modifier 6.5 x kinetic damage 150 hp thermal damage 500 hpshield capacity 2,500 hp armor hitpoints 2,500 hp"
"lol no.--isaac"
"i think that's a great idea! i would leave the balancing to ccp however."
"of course. this is just a draft idea."
"no, if you want to shoot other capitals and towers more effectively get a dread. carriers already have enough roles, they don't need more."
"pretty much this. i'd be cool with other types of fighter drones, if people had good ideas for them, but anti-capital is a field that's already got a capital class tasked to it."
"supported for the following reason:cruisers were once the biggest ship in eve, then came battle ships, then came caps, then came super caps and now triple doomsdaying is far from unheard of. what next, mega caps that fire hac's as ammo?"
"no to anti-capital fighters but yes to new breeds (possibly).the anti-capital role is already fielded by so many ships a few battleships take out a carrier easily and with a dread it becomes even simpler. the carriers are support platforms and by no means damage platforms.new breeds of fighters would be nice but it comes to mind that pretty much every role is covered. maybe things such as logistical fighters could be a nice addition to add towards the logistical platform role."
"they should not be as effective as dread, but more effective then current fighters."
"there might be a point in giving them a solid anti capital ship angle, and only allowing motherships to be able to field them."
"fully supported."
"supported."
"yupp"
"sure"
"sometimes this really brilliant ideas are the simple ones...this is one of those times!"
"recently, ccp introduced a new set of faction cruisers to the game so that there would be a faction tier 1 and tier 2 cruiser for every race. while that's fine, there are issues when comparing slot layout. caracal navy issue:low slots: 4med slots: 5high slots: 6total slots: 15osprey navy issue: low slots: 3med slots: 5high slots: 4total slots: 12vexor navy issue:low slots: 6med slots: 3high slots: 5total slots: 14exequror navy issue:low slots: 5med slots: 3high slots: 4total slots: 12omen navy issue:low slots: 7med slots: 3high slots: 6total slots: 16augoror navy issue:low slots: 7med slots: 3high slots: 5total slots: 15stabber fleet issue:low slots: 6med slots: 4high slots: 5total slots: 15scythe fleet issue:low slots: 3med slots: 4high slots: 6total slots: 13as you can see, there are discrepancies between the slots of the various ships. when it comes to battleships, all tier 1s have the same number of slots (except for the dominix, because drone boats always get one less slot than other ships in their category). the same is true for tier 2s and tier 3s. if you look at battlecruisers, you see the same thing: tier 1s have the same slots at other tier 1s, etc. the same holds true for t2 ships: interceptors, afs, hacs, etc. so why does this category of ship get to be different, especially when it unbalances the ships. certain ships, such as the nexequror and the nosprey have as many as 3 slots less than their counterpart, the naugoror. the scythe, while still worse off than the naugoror, at least is a slot up on the other two. those are all the tier 1 faction cruisers. the same issue can be seen in the tier 2s. all have 15 slots except for the nomen (and the nexor, but that's because it's a drone ship). so why do some ships get more than others? how is that fair?my proposal is make all faction cruisers have the same number of total slots as their counterparts. i vote giving the nexequror another mid, the nosprey another high, keep the scythe how it is and remove a low and a high from the naugoror, giving all tier 1 faction cruisers 13 slots. for tier 2s, i vote keeping them all with 15 slots. that means only the nomen need be changed, losing that excess high slot. many people argue that slot layout isn't a means of balancing ships. and that's somewhat true. but if you homogenized the number of slots in each ship class, i think you'd find a natural balance coming through. but maybe not. i can't totally tell if that would balance them or not, but preliminary evidence suggests that it would go a long way."
"on the surface i have to agree, but i havent messed around with any of the navy cruisers, so i dont know firsthand how balanced toward each other they may be. your argument makes sense, but i wont agree right away cause i would like to hear from some more folks who have used the ships."
"balancing ships by pure counting of slots seems...sketchy. there may well be a problem here, but making your argument purely on slot count is unconvincing."
"slot number and slot layout alone mean nothing.slot number, slot layout and ship bonuses in connection to ship type, tanking type, weapon system and base stats means something. so if you want to make a serious point, research all that and try to make a comparison."
"why do you want to nerf faction cruisers? wtf? navy omen has the same slot layout like the old navy auguror, but diffrent to it, it is usefull(was intreduced in emperian age). simply since it can match a zealot but got another focus(more flexiblity for solo and close range combat because of the extra high slot and the drones while the zealot is still superior at range).the main problem is that all tier 1 faction cruisers are preaty mutch pointless atm since they lost her superior nano aspect.navy exequeror needs another med, a bit more powergrid for a large shield extender or 800mm plate and doubled structure hp(no you didn<U+FFFD>t read wrong, not armor, not shield, structure, since the only real job this ships performs halve deacend is something like a cruiser sized taranis).navy vexor needs one more med and some more grid so you can make it more ganky at close range than a ishtar(what is allready possible in a glas cannon setup). also 50m<U+FFFD> spare drones would make it more interesting."
"what made them **** is their price. cruisers costs from 3m to 8m current prices. navy version is around 100m? a price range of 20m-30m would be sufficient as entry level before battlecruisers."
"alright, let me talk about balance. i'll go into the tier 1s at the moment, because those are the only ones that seem remarkably out-of-whack. nosprey:the nosprey sounds great. it's fast and agile, capable of pulling more than 2km/s. it sounds like a badass kiter--the cruiser version of a crow. but its grid is so horrible that you can only barely fit a mwd and a full rack of launchers, leaving no grid for tank or a cap booster. this is assuming that you're fitting 2 bcus in the lows so that your damage can compare to that of a similarly fit caracal. and the damage is respectable--about 340 with max skills and faction missiles--but this leaves the ship itself horribly fragile. even if you fit it with 3 field extenders, an invul ii and a medium shield extender (the only kind that will fit), you only get 13k ehp. aside from the kite fit, you could try a tank. but even if you devote every slot to running a tank (aside from one for the speed mod and one for the point), you still only end up with tanking a little more than 200 dps. and the kicker? you can't fit a full rack of launchers if you fit the cap booster necessary to run the tank. nexequror:this is an interesting ship on the surface. it's slightly faster than the nosprey and a bit more agile. and yet it has no real role; you can try using it like a thorax, but it's out-performed in almost every way--the rax is tougher, has better cap, and matches the nexequror's damage. alternatively, you can utilize its massive speed for a kiter fit, but its uses even then are limited as you have to use rails. your natural speed destroys your tracking, and so you can't actually use a \"speed tank\"--it's more of a range tank, but more and more ships these days are fitting for range. if you fit a mwd and a full rack of guns, you no longer have the grid for anything remotely resebling a tank, which means any minmatar ship larger than a destroyer will be able to put significant damage onto you from your desired range with barrage, most amarr ships will be able to hit you effectively with scorch and all caldari ships (except a few frigates) will be able to hit you wherever you are. that means the only race of ships you can usually beat is gallente, and even then you run into problems with light drones (because you can't outrun them and you can't shoot them). yes, you can get a respectable 350 dps at that range, but only when you aren't using your mwd. also, just to put this in perspective, the nexequror setup that i use has 6k ehp. scythe fleet issue: (there's no way to shorten that)the scythe can only be used to kite. it's actually faster still than the nexequror, and it uses projectiles and missiles, neither of which run into trouble when tracking at high speeds. but like the nexequror, this ship is remarkably fragile--while it can fit a lse ii, it also needs to fit a pdu so that it can fit the falloff rigs necessary to push its range far enough to be meaningful. unlike its cousins, the scythe has a large drone bay (comparatively) and so can get the standard 350 dps without a damage mod. this means you're free to fit overdrives or nanos in the lows, leading to a very fast ship. out of all the kiting faction cruisers (well, tier 1 cruisers; the nomen and fleet stabber are different stories) the scythe is actually the most effective, though it does have the same cap problems as the other two. it can fit a cap booster in place of the lse, though it then becomes even more fragile than the nexequror. however, due to its fourth mid, it can fit support mods such as a web (so that it can kill drones) or a tracking disruptor. the scythe functions because it has the extra slot--it has the highs to deal damage equivalent to its counterparts while having the freedom (and grid, mind you) to fit support. the nexequror could do this, too, if it had a fourth mid and the nosprey could do it with a fifth high."
"(continued)naugoror:the naugoror is not a kiter. can it kite? sure. it has the lows to be able to fit nanos/overdrives as well as heat sinks and the grid to fit a full rack of heavy pulse iis along with those heat sinks. if you want to kite with it, you can get a fit that goes 2km/s, hits at 25km for 310 dps, and--here's the kicker--has almost four times the ehp of the scythe and three times the ehp of the nexequror. but it's still slower and less damaging than the nosprey, so we can see that it's not a kiter. but it can tank. it's not the best damage dealer around, but if fit for an active tank, it can tank 400 dps with 30k ehp while dealing 210 dps and fitting tackle and a speed mod. none of the other ships in its class can even come close to these numbers. the nexequror can approach the ehp by devoting all its low slots to it, but if it does so, it nerfs its dps down to that of the naugoror fit here--essentially, you end up with a naugoror that has no active tank. moreover, if you fit for a purely passive buffer on the naugoror, you can get more than 130k ehp while still fitting a speed mod, tackle, and dealing 200 dps. again, none of the ships in its class can come close to these numbers. it seems to me that the extra slots are what unbalances this ship, as losing either 2 lows or a low and a high would mean, respectively, that 1) it still tanks harder than the other ships in its class but doesn't come near the bizarre numbers shown above or 2) it tanks significantly harder than its counterparts but loses more damage to compensate. as it is, this ship outperforms all the other in almost every way."
"the day they announced the new faction cruisers, i was discussing this issue with corpmates. the navy omen is like a gift to the amarr from the benevolent dev-gods, while the navy exequror is like a slap in the face.navy exequror's damage and rate of fire bonus, but only 4 turrets and tiny drone bay ensure the dps will be mediocre no matter how you fit it. it can't tank, it can dps a bit, and it can't remote rep, which at least the non-faction variation can do. why bring it over a thorax?i see tons of navy omens around, and even in the alliance tourny, which makes sense. navy omen's a great ship. i think i've seen only 1 navy exequror, ever. turn the navy exequror into a navy thorax with decent stats please?"
"this."
"yup :)"
"this post actually changed my mind on the subject. pointed out exploits and issues that i didnt see at first. good post."
"ok. where is the problem here? if you meet me you will meet extreme specialization. do you honestly believe that and people will comply? so is this the fault of sp remap or the players being ******ed? no player with a sense of brain would remap to fotm. they would remap to what they want to fly. of course some will remap to fotm but that is their problem and not the system.that is where you are wrong. attributes are pretty much the same catagory. there is the same amount of whines for sp that there is for attributes. the choice of attributes too, is considered development process and the choice you make is the consequence you live with. but with attiributes remap you can just role over. no different from sp remap."
"this would change the economy a lot... fotm and an instant increase in market competition with wasted sp put into industry/science... you train what you need. i would support a different kind of sp redistribution though: if a skill is less than 10% completed, you can put the sp into another skill... those few thousand sp that are lying around in useless/currently useless skills, with limitless uses, and maybe a 10% penalty. ofc the sp would have to be recalculated based on the time needed to train the skill (sp/min) (would keep people from training a specific skill for which they have good attributes and putting the sp into another skill)"
"no."
"there is no valid reason why you should be able to spend skillpoints again, if you trained some useless skills then that be it.redistributing skillpoints towards skills you don't have is:a) not fair towards others who have trained the skills and are happy with the way they are and have no skillpoints they want to redistribute.b) not fair towards new players as they as well just like you will have to train the skills to actually get something while your taking the shortcut. your time in eve should not mean you get an horrendous advantage over the new guys (as seen with exponential skill training times).sure you will spend a few sp in a few skills you never use but this shouldn't be millions otherwise it is your own damn fault.let's drop the idea of matrix-style skill injection now please."
"this ^^. scrams turning off mwd's actually made ab's worth using in pvp. and as it is, lots of people still think that ab's are a lolfit."
"the whole great speed nerf patch was a horrible design change. i still have trouble understanding how that monstrosity was allowed to go through. and considering that it has, i don't believe there's any hope left in talking sense into ccp. it's over, we lost"
"yep, no positives came with this change.afterburners are are still lolfits 99% of the time."
"the speed nerf had a lot of dumb parts, but this was one of the good ones. scrams used to be lolfits, now there's actually a decision to be made. this proposal is not bad, per se, but it's unnecessary, and i dislike tiny changes, just because they're hard for players to keep up with."
"so, what's the difference in terms of speed between an old 90% web and a warp scrambler?"
"did you fail first grade? read the thread. quoting what should've been obvious:"
"wouldn't the better solution here be to boost abs such that they're not unusable on ships other than frigates?"
"needed"
"the only party that is effectively and efficiently able to stop macros is ccp.unless they decide to really do so, it will not work without breaking the game.so instead of suggesting and debating means that don't fit the ends, you should run a campaign to make the csm put pressure on the issue on part of ccp. even though ccp usually wants suggestions from the csm that include a clear solution, this is one of the issues where the only thing that has to be done is to tell ccp that it is their frelling responsibility to fix it.i don't think they will do so, however. they make too much money from the macros, which makes the decision to remain inactive quite understandable from an economic point of view."
"everyone with more than 3 active brain cells can understand that ccp is losing alot if money due to macro's. without macro's rmt'ing, all those isk buyers have to use gtcs, which results in more profit for ccp."
"more time to sink somewhere else"
"topic is apparently raised from the dead.should be implemented like this."
"that idea, i like a lot."
"good idea, supported."
"you were given a rorqual and orca to fufill this"
"lol you ignorant."
"definetly supported."
"definite support, removal of chance based invention would reduce pain, even if datacore requirement went up in proportion."
"there is no such thing as an autopilot-to-0km-hackthe only trick i know is this one:1. set your autopilot settings to stop at each waypoint2. set a destination of your choice3. right-click the yellow gate in the overview and warp to 0km4. right-click the yellow gate in the overview and \"add as first waypoint\"5. activate autopilot6. as you come out of warp on the gate, the autopilot jumps for you automatically7. as you come out of the jump, the autopilot stops (deactivates)8. repeat steps 3-7 until you reach your destinationthis in a covert ops ship fitted with a covert ops cloaking device is a way to travel pretty much undetected anywhere. just activate your cloak asap after step 3 (as soon as your ship starts moving), and again after step 5.you still have to be in front of your screen the whole way though, so this is not autopiloting."
"not true. there is an executable that appears to manipulate eves memory to change the warp to 15km command to 0km.i'd like to use it, but i don't cheat..... others can use it, with no fear of being caught, because they want to.level playing field would be neat.... like i said, just something to discuss.only idea i've come across so far that doesn't break the current time-sink is a \"warp to 0 + jump on contact\" button, or the ability to tell it to jump mid-warp. means you're through the gate and 15km away from safety, but in low-sec to high-sec boundaries it would allow someone to go afk for that warp, knowing they'd be in highsec or a home system at the end. might just add some usability without making a fully automated ap to 0. not perfect but another tool that might work.as said above, afk is afk regardless of how auto-pilot works.edit: btw i really like the 5 click \"solution\" posted above lol.this isn't about \"a way to travel undetected\" or \"i want it to be easy\" it's about some people having autopilot to 0 while others don't.how to fix. how to level playing field."
"i totally don't support this. yeah sure it would make sense for an advanced autopilot to warp to 0, but it would break the game as we know it. suddenly 20 jumps is not far anymore. freighters arrive at their destination an hour earlier than now, which would cause markets to level (aka destroying local markets), which would be terrible annoying for the thousands of people who earn their isk with that. low sec? ah what the hell, let's just auto pilot through it while watching a movie on one screen and eve on the other. no!"
"no this is about you making ridiculous claims based on hearsay or not based on anything at all. you just had a revelation and now can see how half of eve is using a modified executable to update their autopilot.have you reported that mythical exploit to cpp? because that's what you do, not spawn yet another thread in assembly hall."
"i'm sorry but reality does not require your belief.the exe exists, is in somewhat wide-spread use, and functions very well.i'm simply posting a thread so that possible solutions to re-leveling the playing field can be discussed.as for reporting it, i'm sure the devs are aware. i'm not here to take this tool away from anyone. i think it's a good feature and for some it might be critical to their accessibility of the game. i choose not to use it but have no problem with those who do, as said above, afk is still afk.yes i am a bit sick of what i've seen from the csm and have been trolling it up as i found the serious approach to be a bit of a joke around here. so you can take that personally if you like. that can be your problem."
"so they're doing that now using this exploit.......looking for a solution (or a balance for non-exploiters) to that, not a cause."
"not supported. this would make hauling in hi sec even more easier than it already is.although op has a good point. it is probably pretty easy to automate warp to 0 route with macros and bookmarks :p i would not be suprised if some people had been using it from 2003 or so already :p"
"if by ''hack'' you mean the old trick of assigning your mwd to f1 and putting a weight on f1 with autopilot on"
"well, i just did a quick search on google for \"eve online autopilot bot\" and surprisingly found a lot of results. i'm not going to test any of them because i don't need such a thing, but some seem like they are in deed working, or were working until recently. i'm sure ccp is well aware of those however."
"no, no, and no. actually fly your ship if you want to wtz."
"i would also like this, as long as you come out at 15km from the station (same as for stargates).i do see one problem with this change though which could make it more complicated. for now, the autopilot waypoint system only takes system id's and not station id's. this means they would have to allow stations as a final destination.don't get me wrong, i'd love to see this happen, but i don't think it will be high in their priorities."
"no support. afk ease is not eve."
"agreed. not supported."
"which is stupid.if you want to make a point compare it with dualweb."
"might be interesting, but it seems unnecessary."
"it sounds like something that the thorax/deimos should have... i don't fly them, but it seems that the people who do adapted themselves very good. wasting a low slot for a +1 mwd sounds ok, but then people just fit dual scram.edit: can you stick to one thread for each proposal please? i got another one at"
"the suggestion is simple, and resembles the \"send to\" context menu in windows for the ones who know what i'm talking about.basically, the context menu would allow you to move items from your cargo to your personal or corporation hangar without having to open both containers side by side and drag-droping the item.this would be especially useful for haulers or when you want to quickly offload something in the corporation hangar.for the corporation hangar, the context menu would show all available tabs.possible destinations would be:- cargo hold (current ship)- personal hangar- corporation hangar > hangar tabs"
"oh... and i support myself. woot!"
"as part of the overhaul to context menus, this could work, yes."
"[x] the ninja salvager should be aggro'd to the mission runner after the first wreck is salvaged, because the mission runner owns the wrecks, and i feel that ccp needs to change the current dynamic.ccp - please take this situation seriously, i play with many mission runners and the current rules cause them and me a lot of greif we all think its unfair. i am sorry to say, that this is one thing about eve that i hate.to the salvage ninjas, stop being carebares and hiding behind concord. at least mission runners take the time and risk their considerably more expensive ships running missions, and it is not so you can freely and safly steal our hard earned salvage. the bring up bogus reasons why you should be allowd to continue. if you want to excursize your criminal sides there are plenty of low sec systems... oh wait, thats right all ninja salvagers are lazy cowards. last thing, any one who is opposed to this is a salvage ninja or dose not understand what we are taking about. i cannot not wait until this injusttice is fixed."
"this is quite true and for this reason if for none of the others the suggestion to increase times is a valid one - personally i'd go for 3 minutes and make gates the same. i think this will result in a lot more corpies hiding in next system shenanigans but so be it.. docking games - especially with capitals could do with a shake up and this is a great sugestion."
"supported what about using the old effect but have the capital slide outta the worm hole effect, like it fly threw it, not formed the worm hole around it."
"apocrypha effect is lame, bring back the lightning"
"signed. seriously. new effect is lame."
"bs v in 10 days, but i won't be training caps before they return the old cyno!"
"/signed"
"supported of course, the actual effect is soo bad, jumping a capital ship should not looks like jumping through stargates."
"new graphic is worse than lame"
"i want thundering lightning :<"
"/signed"
"please return the old cyno effect."
"/signed"
"definitely signed"
"/signed"
"i think the biggest issue with afs is that everyone seems to be addressing them according to eft outputs. while a vengeance or a hawk may put out a very small amount of dps on paper, when you consider what rockets can do to other frigates, you might be inclined to change your opinion. again, as i've stated time and time again in this thread- the different ships fare better against different targets, and there is no insta-win button. considering how ridiculously fast rockets tear t2 frigates apart as it is, a damage bonus or addition of launcher harpoint/s would make them ridiculously overpowered, and upset what little balance has been maintained by ccp through all the complaints from players who don't bother learning how to fly their ships.and again, as linked from a previous page:evidence that vengeances are fine as is."
"supported"
"my name is davlos, and i endorse this product and/or service."
"yes please."
"destroyers are used in faction war minor plex.hard to find a good fleet pvp fitting without adding power or cpu, especially for catalyst."
"extra slot would be good, other stuff also good. the catalyst really needs a ground up rebuild tbh, it has no direction."
"indeed, i see people using it with both blasters and railguns."
"yup, destroyers are awesome! but, then i tried to fit one, and i thought: aha, you mean destroyer as in destroying the morale of the player that wants to fly it/suppport for destroyers that can destroy something other than my morale"
"/signedi bought my destroyer to help with npc rat frigates, but i never noticed that it wasn't nearly as effective as the description of destroyers touted."
"i agree 'fw lag' needs to be fixed though i would be inclined to view it as 'low-sec lag' or even more: non-hub/non-0.0 warfare lag.the basic problem is that when battles occur beyond a given scale in systems that are not resourced for it horrendous lag happens.it's actually a more general problem (and in my view a very longstanding problem) brought into sharp relief by fw's mechanics tending to lead to lots and lots of skirmishes punctuated by a short series of escalating large battles.at any rate, while lag-fixes should be given high priority i don't think they conflict particularly with this type of game design consideration, particularly as fw development must be done as a package of reforms and updates of which my proposal is only one.thanks for the input though.cosmo"
"bump."
"back up to the top. ccp still haven't fixed this."
"please for the love of eve, boost those poor gallente recon ships! they're so fail with their weak rsd bonuses and overzealous stacking penalties that you're better off fitting ecm on the arazu and treating it like a falcon."
"csm want to say a few words?"
"just thought i'd give it a bump; and also mention the love needed to be given to the rsd rigs.before the nerf the rsd rigs had 10% bonus to strength now they are 5% !! and the penalty stays the same - there is no incentive to fit these at all - especially with the stacking penalties.someone please fix them.a single acknowledgement of this thread would be nice - just so we know your at least looking at them. thanks."
"wow, the arazu looked to be a sweet ship on first glance, then i trained for it and noticed how much of a fail it is.so i come here and see that this thread is alive and kicking, for a year, and no response or hope in the foreseeable future.i get the distinct impression that this \"council\" is as much fail as the arazu, drink a lot of coffee and chat i assume, good for starbucks business. great job council!sarcasm of course wont further the cause i suppose, but then neither has reasonable requests and patience.another patch today and no love for the gallente recons.full support for this long standing, 8 pages of support, year long thread."
"my name is davlos, and i endorse this product and/or service."
"with so many topics about the mom /tytan`s problem still no comment from ccp....is it worth posting those problems?"
"they don't need buffs!!!! they need to be used in the way they were intended. they are not solo pwnmobiles they are support ships. you wouldn't take a oneiros or a falcon on a solo roam would you? supper caps are support ships made to assist off grid more then on grid of a conventional capital fleet. they support with either bonuses like the titan or with massive swarms of fighters like the mother ships.think of it this way. would you want to put wheels on a aircraft carrier and have it drive on land and directly support tanks and troops where it would be a huge lumbering target? or, maybe would you keep it 5 miles off the coast and hundreds of miles out from the war zone delivering death from afar? if your answer is death from afar please, then why would you want to do this with a mother ship then?the biggest effect titans can have on a large fleet engagements are not the doomsday's, its the fleet bonuses it can supply to the fleet, and the logistic support of the titan bridge.how often do you see titan death mails with gang links attached, or mother ships with clone vat bays? never!it would be absolutely scary to find a null sec alliance that understands how to use a super capital, and uses their super caps the way ccp intended."
"yes. after all that chribba has done for eve, he should be allowed to bring his new uber-mining barge into highsec."
"supported"
"i could not say it any better myself"
"yes, because without chribba, eve would lose a piece of its soul."
"faction stuff is a relic from old times, before t2 messed the whole balancing thing up, right? seriously, if you think faction stuff is cool to be collected and never taken out of the hangar, then stop reading right here. i for one would love to field one of these rare and expensive toys, but as it stands, t2 is always way better. i think we can all agree that pvp is pretty much t2. just take a look at the various killboards. interceptors, assault frigs, recons, hacs, dics and hics. battlecruisers are the only valid \"eco\" pvp class vessels. (bs and above i consider pos warfare tools ) agreed, there are faction ships which do ok. faction bs for our mission carebears. navy caracal and fleet stabber do a pretty good job in pvp, as well as the phantasm. but what about the rest?cynabal? 160m right now, less dps, slower, less effective hp, less drones and med slots than a vaga making it less versatile ... actually, it does nothing better than a vagabond, all at the same time. it just looks better vigilant? just some sort of black deimos with crappy statsgila? totaly uselessnot to mention all the faction and pirate faction frigs. i would ask the csm to support a review of these faction ships, to make them actually viable for pvp. to be clear. i'm not saying those faction or pirate faction vessels should match t2. but if they don't and somebody would say (for some odd reason) they were went to be between t1 and t2, then rebalance them by adjusting bpc drop rates to get a lower price tag according to their power."
"vigilant guardian angels (minmatar + gallente)beeing mixed gal/minni and gallente lacking a real sniper, i see the vigilant as a deimos/munnin mixrequired skills: gallente cruiser 5 / minmatar cruiser 5gallente cruiser skill bonus:7.5% bonus to medium hybrid turret tracking speed per level and 5% bonus to medium hybrid turret damageminmatar cruiser skill bonus:10% bonus to medium hybrid turret optimal range and and 5% increase to microwarpdrive capacitor bonus per levelthe rest of the values would need some eft work to get it balanced between the eagle and muninn, just with slithly different roles. obviously, the dronebay has to be smaller and in order to just not have a muninn that looks like a deimos, we need to make the vigilant fast. with the wmd and tracking bonus, it would differ of how a muninn plays ;)alternatively, you could just say \"lets make it faster like deimos (cause it's minmatar), give it some more versatility with the +1 med slot while removing some dps and voila, there goes your dedicated vaga killer. just a little tweaking here and there"
"gilagurista (caldari + gallente)we allready have the cerberus, drake and navycaracal with all those missile bonuses, right? eagle and cerb are snipers pretty much, so it could either be a dps boat (navycal with assault launchers does that job pretty well i assume) or a drone boat with a shield tank, which would be uniquerequired skills: gallente cruiser 5 / caldari cruiser 5gallente cruiser skill bonus:5% bonus to medium hybrid turret damage per level and 10% bonus to drone hitpoints, damage and mining yield per skill level.caldari cruiser skill bonus:5% bonus to shield resistance per level and 5% and dunno yet, maybe something for active/passive tanking depending on final slot layout. or even +5% medium hybrid damage, depeding on dronebay. we won't get the gila to close to the vexor/ishtar me thinks"
"100% support, would love to use my dramiel as something other than a paperweight and a gila with hybrid dps and drone dps bonuses would be superb.the navy osprey could do with some love in the form of extra pg and a couple of low slots for nanos."
"i'd much rather see their cost (lp, tag, etc) reduced so that their price more closely reflects their ability, which is between t1 and t2.i do firmly agree that these ships should not be collectors items and that the game would benefit a great deal from the added variety that having more reasonably priced faction ships would bring. i am in favor of them receiving sufficient love to bring the other faction vessels up to par with the sansha ones. so long as they remain essentially tech level 1.5. why not on par with t2? because i hope to see t2 faction equipment at some point. [as an aside i think a drone bonus on the gila is a horrible idea, but primarily for immersion reasons.]"
"yes pls, it's about time!"
"the csm's job is not game balance, that's held by the qa people at ccp. the most they could do is ask them what the story is on these ships. as they are rare drops by commanders, the only real way to change anything about the cost is to have more commanders drop them, but then you get into market saturation and such.i'm sure the qa guys have their hands full with the strategic cruisers right now, but the csm could advance this issue still. perhaps in one of the csm/ccp q&a sessions. while i support this measure, don't expect a quick response, as ccp has their hands full already."
"they are available from the relevant lp stores. the gila is acquired from the guristas just as the navy caracal can be acquired from the state... excluding the vastly increased risk of mission-running in npc 0.0 that is. same applies to all of them.[edit: they are also dropped by certain npc's so your not wrong there, though commanders aren't the only ones to drop the bpcs]"
"while i agree with bunyip, i also like the overall idea of making the faction ships more viable. making them fully insurable could be a way.they are pretty, they are cool, they are tied to the world of new eden. aren't factions supposed to be important, eh?now all those sexy ships are mostly gathering dust. subsequent changes in mechanics (nos for example) and the introduction of t2 and new modules warrants a closer look at faction ships. let's leave the specifics to ccp but imo they should put this on a 'todo' list at least."
"relevant to our interests: linkagelooks like the devs intend to look into the issue but it's on the distant horizon, so long as the price/performance ratio works out better in the end i don't mind which side of scale is tipped, though i'm still of the opinion a bit of both would be ideal.i still support this issue as i don't think the devs realize just how long many players have been waiting for a full review of these ships, nor the importance they have for those representing the outlaw factions."
"yes indeed. i thought i was the only one thinking this. on another note, i also think faction gear needs a revamp. as it stands, they're only expensive toys for mission runners, and the same goes for the faction ships.i say, remove the artificial price tag barrier in the lp store (no isk for bpc's), and let the players decide the price tag. increase the drop rates as well. after all, this is a pvp game no? then shouldn't the best gear/ships also be geared towards pvp?/support with additionsps: btw, battleships are pvp. rr bs gang anyone? foty anyone?"
"god bless you! yes, and yes again."
"fully supported, although i doubt that the ccp will do it."
"you should be pushing for is a string of player editable commands that would allow players to modify colors, font, font size, and font color, and other minor things like that. it should not include skinning of in game objects, creation of executable commands, or changing of in game sounds. you should stay away from using \"players to create addons for the game interface\" because it sounds like you want to allow players to create custom ui's rather then modifying ccp's by using ccp's own scripting environment you expect them to create. ccp sees the entire client as a ui to the database server that actually runs the game."
"this is very much like my \"commercial\" cynos and jumpdrive idea for the jump freighters, which you can read if you check my sig below."
"on one hand, it's pretty much the same as when they changed cov cyno's to be usable in cynojammed systems, so there's no reason not to support it. it has nothing to do with the ships themselves, it doesn't change anything about black ops at all. all it does is allow the ships to be used in an area where they cannot be utilized currently, just like the change to allow them in cynojammed space allowed their use in sov 0.0 regions with const sov/prevalent cynojammed space. it allows a subset of players (empire war dec corps) access to a ship class that they currently lack (along with their unique tactics/abilities), and opens up another subset of players (highsec carebears who get wardec'd) to being victims of a whole new world of griefing/ganking tactics.on the other hand, do corps who run around decing highsec corps full of carebears/newbies/casuals really need/deserve any new toys? especially ones which can be utilized to such devastating effect in an environment like empire vs the types of unsuspecting targets that inhabit highsec? do they really need even more advantages? i mean come on, you're seal clubbing...baby seal clubbing at that. the hardest part of empire wars is finding targets who will undock during a wardec at all, which is why i understand why'd you be interested in adding black ops to your toolbox, they enable so many options and enable you to exploit opportunities for kills that you couldn't accomplish otherwise. but that's kind of the problem.if they allow covert cyno's to be used in highsec space, the first war dec corp that actually uses them properly is going to create so much drama and result in such a massive amount of carebear tears/forum whines to the point that eventually ccp will have to change something, and ccp's method of balancing something is to nerf it and everything associated with it into the stone age. then on top of that, they also do the simple, minor change like \"whoops, ok lets roll that back, you can't use cov cyno's in highsec any more\", ya know the thing that would have solved the problem alone, without destroying several entire ship line ups in the process? but by that point you're left with a ship that has 3 highslots, a 1ly jump range with jdc v, that requires 500m3 worth of fuel to jump itself to a \"covert\" cyno which lasts 5 minutes, now pulses an ecm burst every 20 seconds jamming everyone on grid, can only be lit by blockade runners (who can no longer fit a covert ops cloak), which also broadcasts it's location in the local chat of every system in the constellation every 3 seconds to remind everyone what you're doing and where. then ccp will say \"ok highsec carebears stop crying we fixed it, the bad men can't light covert cyno's in high sec anymore\" to which everyone responds \"gee thanks, but if you didn't notice, with all the other nerfs, why would anyone ever bother to fly a black ops, or light a covert cyno anywhere, much less in high sec?\" which ccp will respond \"well see there you go, why did we waste those man hours implementing these changes when the problem solved itself anyway? we can't justify allocating any more dev/review time on this until winter expansion 2012, and by 2012, we of course mean 2014, which is when we'll actually get around to adding the fuel bay we've been promising we'd add for the last 4 expansions in a row.\""
"i find this highly intriguing, but i think one relevant point has been missed, drug running. those blue and red pills would be super easy to get into hi sec now. not sure if that should be made easy. i will reserve my option to support or not support until somebody addresses this possible issue."
"if you fly enough strategic ships that this is a problem...you need to rethink your strategy.no support. i'm glad they added this feature.--isaac"
"yep, useless feature that adds nothing to the game. less meaningless timesinks and horrible \"features.\""
"actually i like the proposal. i've always been a fan of the idea of being able to color all or part of our ship hulls, and i definitely like the idea of corp and alliance logos on them.your proposal to have these colors and logos load last under load is sensible - this keeps large fleet battles from lagging (more than they do already). to this i would add the suggestion that logos cache so they don't have to be reloaded if the client already has them."
"supported. i for one would like a bit more personality in ships."
"+1 from me."
"ok"
"i'd like it if you could opt as to which logo went where (corp in the 'big' slot and the like) a lot of people associate more with their corp then a larger entity.*edit*forgot my thumb."
"nay.as much as the server hardware for this game have been very impressively stable thus far, i'm not going to support any initiative that is going to strive towards putting more stress and strain on the network and hardware.i am also, speaking from the perspective of a roleplayer who may have the most reason, and/or cause to support something like this. but for the greater interest, no thanks.furthermore, for all practical purposes, when i want to shoot at someone, it's mostly zoomed out anyway. all manner of noticed 'personalisation' is a) your name b) your shiptype c) your relative veolicty d) your loot and fittings.i'm not going to be impressed with how you're going to express your sexual orientation with how pink your ship is.so, once more. nay.edit: furthermore, endorsing your own proposal = fail. it doesn't speak well for your confidence in what you proposed."
"i heartily endorse this product and/or service.i would like to see this opt-in only, that would reduce the strain quite a bit. under high loads the server and client should neglect the extra information, prioritizing the normal information.regardless, this addition would take a substantial amount of effort to implement and i would sooner like to see ambulation take off."
"as i see this, the main problem will be loading the textures. and the man hours put into accually finding them places for the logos. don't discurage, i think this idea is totaly awesome =)someone mentioned that throwing the logos into the client. this is a rather smart idea, as it would also let ccp control when the logos is realeased/approving them. ccp does regular patches, they could be realeased with these patches. however, i think there should be some costs added since this will take manhours away from ccp.another issue is the logo it self. most gallente ships are gray/some greenish colour and the minmatarian are red/rust to blakish. should a logo accually be glued onto the ship with epoxy? point is, that a logo sitting on gallente ship x&y, just may not accually fit on minmatar x&y. i'd like to see this id<U+FFFD>a introduced. damn, i can almost sign my self up to work the graphics to make this work!"
"since you get uncloaked as soon as you come within 2000 meters of another object, it would be a good thing if we could see cloaked ships that are in our corp or fleet as if they were not cloaked (or with a limited transparency) and that they show on the overview as well.this would make stealth bomber operations a little easier.just try to coordinate a wing of stealth bomber to get in position in order to alpha-strike the same target, without risking coming too close from your own wingmates... it can be a little tricky if you can't even see them!we should at least be able to see their bracket in space and in the overview!"
"what he said."
"i concur. having never flown a cloaked ship, i didn't realize this was a problem, but it seems like a huge liability to me. if you need an rp backstory call it computer overlay based on fleet transponder positioning or something."
"this would be a great addition, and really help coordinate sbs and recon ships.even if just the bracket appeared, and the ship remained cloaked it would be usable."
"no thank you. i can just see the mittinanni whispering into his mic, \"go left brosef no harder left, idjut you went past him!!!\""
"i'm a fan of cloaking. i think cloaking is already nicely balanced. no change needed. no support."
"why do you have friendlies on your pvp overview?"
"i'm fine with a redesign/rebuff of info war in general as a stealth eos bonus, but something needs to change.probe strength bonus, drone speed/tracking/range, improve the % increase for the sensor strength link (or broaden it to include targeting range/speed and tracking speed/rang), etc etc. there's a lot of ways to go about it"
"fully support giving this ship a bump. increase the drone bandwidth for a full compliment of heavies, balance by not giving drone bonuses. give it a self bonus to sensor strength and the game finally has a counter to the ecm recons. people might actually fly this ship again. right now the only sub capital ships i see flown by gallente are vex, domi, mega, myrm and ishtar. we need more than five ships. gallente command and recon ships are total fail. everything else is merely \"toyed with\" while training to get into one of the five."
"i am not flying the eos until it has been fixed. +1."
"either the eos, or information warfare, or possibly both need some adjustments."
"its be nice"
"support. =)"
"i support this as a guardian pilot...."
"great idea.. needs to be done soonest."
"great idea."
"as a basilisk and a onerios pilot wholly supported."
"good idea, more logistics means longer battles .. im up for that"
"agree"
"good point! the logistic pilots now get only \"gj\" or \"that was your fail\"!"
"1.0"
"agree"
"i agree absolutely"
"1.0"
"agree totally with this idea. logistics are the unsung heroes of fleets."
"awesome idea"
"it's good idea !"
"+"
"1.0"
"viva la reps o7"
"the reason i never learned logistics may soon be removed v0v"
"!"
"i concur. it would make for a much more satisfying game experience, both for damage dealers and of course for our wonderful 'healer class' players."
"nice !!!!!"
"absolutely!!!"
"+"
"great idea !"
"TRUE"
"1.0"
"i concur."
"great idea!"
"1.0"
"much needed"
"i support this post!"
"i agree completely. would make me want to actually be a logistics pilot."
"i think logistics should show up on loss mails with armor repaired having -hp damage.name: mos7wan7edsecurity: -corp: -alliance: -faction: noneship: oneirosweapon: large remote repair iidamage done: -1806"
"agreed.assists and logistics need to be counted."
"+1 for this"
"i support this, credit to the pilots who were good enough to fill the logistic role!"
"/agreed"
"what about giving these to motherships to give them a better defined role? curious as to how others feel about this before i cast my vote.*edit* seems the poster above me had the same idea."
"hi, i'd like to propose that a neutral logistics ship be flagged with the same combat agression mechanics that prevent docking when remote repping targets involved in a war (factional, empire whatever).cheers."
"i think this was proposed recently. it received a lot of support. not sure where the topic went."
"supported. changing to a hybrid bonus rather than a medium hybrid bonus: it wouldn't affect existing medium users and allow a slight boost to small hybrids, very minimal. i dont think you can fit a large hybrid so no issue there."
"op; how about proposing that it be changed to something, rather than just leaving it open ended? i see a disturbing trend happening in this section, where someone will point out a problem, but not pose a real solution to it, and people will blindly support it.for this forum to work, there has to be proposed fixes as well as pointing out problems.so, change the bonus to what, exactly?it's not like either of the ships are exactly in need of a buff. both perform quite well when compared to their peers.not supported.edit - also, changing the bonuses to all hybrid turrets would mean that the vexor hull was the only hull in the gallente lineup to receive a bonus to all hybrid turret damages, instead of being size specific like every other gallente ship. i think that any ship that isn't limited to its size of turret/bay should possibly be looked at."
"you don't need to forward a solution to believe there's a problem.since the job of the csm is to put issues before ccp often having no solution may be better as people might agree that there is a problem but not agree on the solution and so not support the issue.there's nothing wrong with either approach in my view, nor with an op with multiple possible solutions or an op that calls on the community to suggest solutions. we don't all feel we have all the answers."
"no support. there are enough foolproof, forgiving children's game. let us have one for ourselves. :)"
"i like to see pre-pay new clone body. make clone is for 100k or so, just add column for buying bigger version there. when you buying new clone you can buy bigger one at once."
"no. eve has risk. real risk associated with some of it. welcome to it. embrace it. it's not like it's a difficult task to update your clone every third month or so.no. count me as one who does not wish to partake in your auto-clone-updatey-thing."
"all i had to read was the topic, i agree =d"
"inspired a bit by this threaddrone hijacking. a ship or module specifically used for hacking into an enemy's drone signal. the success rate would have to be very low (like 25% tops? i dunno, i pulled that number out of my ass), long cycle time, limited by ship bandwidth, **** concord off, and fighters should be immune.lets say i fly into a fight against a domi that has some hateful ogre iis tearing into a corpy of mine. i start up my little drone pilfering module up on my drone pilfering ship, and get to work trying to take over the domi's drones. first cycle fails. second cycle fails - dammit. third cycle nabs one of the bastards. sweet. now i set this drone against the owner. being a domi, of course, he just launches another and blows his former drone to pieces.in my little drone pilfering ship i can hijack drones that are outside of my skillset (honestly, the skillset for this should be very high, so theoretically i should be able to fly all drones anyway), but i can't launch them if they aren't in my skillset. in otherwords, i would only be able to use the drones i steal in the one fight. if i warp off, i lose control of the drone. if i collect the drone, i can't launch it because i don't have the skills.maybe have the counter be some kind of drone link encryption module that works like eccm, except the part where eccm doesn't work. this should not be a wtfpwn against drone boats and as such, it should be a total pain in the ass to pull off, but i think it would add another interesting layer to small gang fights. this is just a rough idea. if there is interest, i'll flesh it out. this is also in the \"new feature\" category, therefor is not as high a priority as the \"fixin ****\" category."
"supporting my awesometacular idea."
"this is useless, because it is useless.if you can fly a special ship with any decency that is able to snatch a few drones every once in a while, you would do much more good if you'd be flying even the crappiest destroyer in the region and simply shot at those drones directly."
"why would anyone bother with this?"
"i have a cool idea too. how about a module that lets you disable a pilots guns with a low chance of success (only 99%), and a long cycle time (2 seconds). this would clearly be balanced because i say so."
"well i am not real sure why i should give you sensitive business information as to how i and my corpm8s pay for our nice shiny toys. or rather those interesting arrangements of 0's and 1's that look really cool on my monitor. either way i'm just curious as to wether any of you have managed to locate any noob corps that we have \"griefed\". i rather doubt it as all those who have recieved a successful visitation from us are probably not going to talk about it. i also know that i really don't want any competitors in our business, figure out your own way of making isk please."
"well is that supposed to say \"dossier with news that will\"? oh man was i tempted to stick a z in there."
"i have a navy exequror because i collect ships. it would be nice if i could actually fly it without looking making an idiot of myself.however, i still think that fixing these things is more complex than slot layout. the ship bonuses and stats also need to be reviewed."
"unless i am mistaken the reasons ccp gave some time ago for not reviewing and adding faction ships was \"only a few people use them, so we are dedicating our work to more important matters\"naturally as long as the faction ship are mostly overpriced and inefficient showpieces the will not be used. and so they will not be changed.and not used.and so on. i am for a generalized reexamination of all the faction ships so that they become really a useful intermediate step between t1 and t2."
"the fact that all pirate ships are incredibly shi tty is a clear sign that everything is fu cked. make them better than tier 1 ships please. fix minmater."
"i'm no longer making this all about slot layout, because that's sparking too much debate. here's what i'm looking for: balance. all i want is faction cruisers to be reviewed and balanced. i personally think that changing the slots as i've laid out above will go a long way toward doing that. does that mean ship bonuses shouldn't be reviewed too? not at all."
"or maybe a penalty is added whereby the cost is 2 to 1, i.e. you lose 50% of the sp you want to redistribute.either way don't believe i could support this"
"this way it can be supported, and tbh had the same idea not too long ago. with really \"useless\" skills that 50% loss is not that much, while the boost of it is still nice, but that will gonna stop people just switching their complete skill tables every day. 30+% is enough imo, but 50% sounds just as good.so: conditional support from me (sp loss!!!)"
"also, no."
"i want to be able to unlearn mining lvl1, trade 3, etc. i don't even care about the sp, i just don't want an ugly skillsheet. have a 2 day waiting period like the 1 day for character deletion to protect hacked accounts etc.this ability would be quite similar to real life, i often get incredibly drunk and forget how to do things."
"yes, because you consciously devoted real time to train skills to 5. i'd love getting hit by that maxed dps. people who didn't train those skills shouldn't be just as good.real-time training is the only measure of dedication in eve. thank god it's not grinding or playtime per week. let's not take that away. it's happening in so many different mmos. just look at world of warcraft and the 'required specialization' drama. when respecialization (resetting the talent build) was available freely, people were forced to play a specific role or not be allowed into guilds at all. not all guilds did that but the majority of the best ones? yup. and it worked on so many unhappy people. blizzard did their best to remove that problem but wow has different ways of player progression which eve lacks.players being ******ed is the reason behind sp remaps. worst case, you put all the attribute points into charisma and want to train gunnery. you always have the option of implants and learnings to boost your other attributes. and you can work to train your dream ships anyway. attributes were never choosing one thing over the other, they were a matter of preference. and the world of new eden makes it plain that 'attributes' can be manipulated by in-game in-character means.skill training on the other hand is a final choice. you can never, ever train two skills in the same amount of real time. it's exclusive and retains 'story' and unique traits of a character. completely reassigning skills would make us play faceless, irrelevant chars like in a typical fps where each character can use any gun."
"(seems i might have posted this in the wrong channel, this one looks better =d) something i would really like to see in an upcoming patch would be the ability to manually move your ship. double-clicking in space is getting annoying considering its a bit glitchy and slow to respond. perhaps a game mechanic that would allow you to hold the right mouse button or hold a certain key down and point your cursor in any direction and your ship will go that way. this would be extremely useful for speed tanked ships (most of minmitar, much luv =d) as it would allow them more maneuverability around the grid. this would allow speed tanked ships more ease of use considering their only option is to orbit in a battle, which can be easily countered."
"this has been proposed several times, and it always comes down to the same thing: it would create too much network traffic and most probably severely contribute to lag.i would love this as well though, but i think it's wishful thinking.maybe a csm can still bring it up and get an official response from ccp, but i think there's higher priorities than this. maybe they would, however, have a way of implementing this so it doesn't cause problems, you never know."
"no, i mean it would be nice for maneuvering in asteroid belts, as aligning can be a pain when there's an asteroid in your way, but i don't think its really needed"
"you're comparing a single modules effect (90% web) to 2 modules effects (scram + 60% web). if you want to compare apples to apples then you should have 2 x 90% webs in your first example."
"i completely endorse this new feature of warp scramblers. i don't think it undermines gallente blaster boats at all. this is a whole new way to deal with nano f4gs and the arazu/lachesis now make an excellent tackler in this sense.i also agree that the person who stated the difference from before and after with webs/scrams was comparing 2 mods against 1. you do in fact need to consider that you've got 2 propulsion jamming mods there."
"here's a more detailed comparison regarding the scram/web changes. mind you a battleship is the worst example to use a) because they're not fast enough to worry about decreasing their speed that much, using multiple propulsion reduction modules is usually used vs smaller ships which are fast enough to either run away or evade damage otherwise, battleships aren't going anywhere; and b) because the impact of the changes primarily impact engagements between ships of different size classes, ie it allows smaller ships to fight inside 10km of larger ships without exploding the moment they are webbed, and to check that, the next step up from a battleship is a dreadnought. alas:dual 1600 plated, triple trimarked megathron (ehp total also includes dc ii, 2xeanm ii's)technically max mwd speed was higher pre-patch but i don't feel like looking it up, besides it's not relevant when measuring the impact of the scram/web changesmax mwd speed: 822m/s, sig radius: 2400m2 pre-patch2x 90% webbed speed: 18m/s, sig radius: 2400m2impact on mobility: 2% of max mwd speedimpact on tracking: ion siege blaster cannons from a sieged moros @ 7.5km range from the megathron each have an 84.5% chance to hit, 3xions deal 36.5k raw damage per volley (every 6.5 seconds) before hit quality is factored in (actual damage increases ~35% when chance to hit is around 85%). factoring in hit chance and hit quality, the 125k ehp (vs dmg profile of faction am xl) megathron explodes in 13 seconds on the 3rd turret volley. the mwd cycle itself lasts for 10 seconds, so depending on when during the mwd cycle the megathron was webbed, unless he was able to deactivate the mwd in time, it's possible the megathron explodes before he can do anything about it. engagements where your ship explodes within moments of being webbed to a couple of turret volleys is better known as \"what happens when you fly a frigate within 10km of anything, pre-qr\", and the mega is just as helpless vs the sieged dread as a rifter would of been had it been dual webbed within 10km of the mega. this is simply from turrets btw, it does not include the 1k+ drone dps from the moros.post-patchscrambled + 60% webbed speed: 46m/s, sig radius 400m2impact on mobility: 5.5% of max mwd speedimpact on tracking: ion siege blaster cannons from a sieged moros @ 7.5km range from the megathron each have a 6.6x10^-18... basicallly 0% chance to hit. vs the same moros out of siege, ion siege blasters have an 80% chance to hit, dealing ~750 dps after factoring in hit chance and hit quality, which is less turret dps than the megathron. the megathron explodes after 2 minutes & 41 seconds (again ignoring drone dps) allowing plenty of time for the mega to fly out of scram/web range of the moros if he so chooses.note: this ignores the massive impact that webs have on a ship's inertia and ability to turn, change directions, etc."
"in short: not only did ships move slower while dual-webbed pre-patch, they also did it with a signature the size of a whole planet.webs, scrams, mwds and afterburners became a lot more interesting post-patch."
"the issue is really that warp scrambler is overpowered in the way that it immediatly shuts down the mwd. a more balanced effect would be for it to disable re-activation of the mwd instead; giving the pilot at least minor chance to get out depending on how long he is into his activation."
"agreed"
"this sounds like an interesting idea."
"this shouldn't be a skill.this should be automatic. when you disconnect, you should be able to reconnect to your drones on re-entry. during the time you're disconnected, they should be susceptible to the usual pilfering and getting shot at. while this issue needs looking at, creating a new skill for it is the wrong way to go about it. /not supported."
"you shouldn't need to train a skill or use a module to compensate for an out of game issue (disconencting).what next, training isk laundering to level 5 and gm's won't ban you for selling it on ebay?it should be an existing game mechanic... if you dc, you're drones warp back to the dronebay or at least go inert and drop agro so that the pve'ers can catch a break."
"fully supported. why cant we reconnect like the probers can to their probes within a set time? i can launch a bunch of probes, leave the system, return and connect/collect my probes. why not give drones the same functionality. one would think that drones are nothing more than larger, attack versions of probes..."
"yes please. if it pops up on screen, log it. if it doesnt pop up on screen but still affects you, log it. let us review our logs and find out exactly how we were beat so we can improve."
"seriously, invention is an incredible click fest and time waster. batch install? wait, i am sure everyone loves one thousand clicks, what a ****ing ******ed system. heh, i especially love it how a simple, normal install job can add 8 clicks because the ****ing system cant recognize simple standards.oh wait, 2 seconds to fix invention is too hard.please add 100 more clicks so manufacturing/invention is completely hand debilitating."
"i want to say this has been raised before, but i can't find it offhand. yes, this one is desperately needed."
"it was raised as part of the industry ui overhaul"
"i support this idea, but what about having just another align button that sets the speed of your ship to a very minimum? something like \"slow align\" and it sets your speed at 1 m/s?"
"this too."
"yus please"
"wait what? if people are buying isk and then buying gtc's with that isk then ccp is not losing money at all because they had to buy the gtc/plex from somebody who spent cash getting it.you're not making a whole lot of sense here."
"supported"
"thumb up"
"keep it up , it`s very important topic! i doubt however that ccp cares..."
"i think it would be cool to walk in a station, as long as they don't screw it up, like this could easily make the game or break itps wouldn't it be cool if your guy could have armor, or a wepon? idk something to think about"
"something i would really like to see in an upcoming patch would be the ability to manually move your ship. double-clicking in space is getting annoying considering its a bit glitchy and slow to respond. perhaps a game mechanic that would allow you to hold the right mouse button or hold a certain key down and point your cursor in any direction and your ship will go that way. this would be extremely useful for speed tanked ships (most of minmitar, much luv =d) as it would allow them more maneuverability around the grid. this would allow speed tanked ships more ease of use considering their only option is to orbit in a battle, which can be easily countered."
"no one got an opinion on this ? :("
"wonderful idea. start a fight and you have to actually finish it.perhaps modify the time to re-dock by standings (better standings = faster while negative standings would be longer). more immersive that way."
"docking games really need to be fixed especially where capitols are concerned, a set three minute timer is a bad idea because it would have negative effect on pvp in general as you cannot have a fight and leave a system or kill a gangs light tackle on a gate and warp to the next gate. not being able to dock without leaving the grid first or waiting out a longer time that resets once you leave the grid sounds good but there is a slight potential problem as grids can be manipulated and there could be some funky situations involving 800km grids or mini grids within grids.maybe a hard fixed limit of 20-50km outside the docking radius would be less exploitable using grid manipulation, so once a ship aggresses it either has to fight it out or try to escape by leaving the area or evade its attacker until it can leave the area and re-approach."
"is it ever possable to change a corp's name, besides making a new 1?"
"yes, please.just got a new graphics card and was looking for options to make it cry and since there is no aa i turned res up...ooooh pretty and smooth graphics...but to read the largest font at 1920x1440 requires me to be 3 inches from my screen (19\" crt). :(um...definitely needs to be bigger...or can i get a free magnifing glass? :)"
"signedbring back the cool cyno graphic. the new one is worse than the crappy shield hardeners graphic."
"/signed"
"no to this. i use my thrasher in optimal virtually all the time, and having the bonus changed would do severe damage to arty thrashers. worse quality hits, worse damage at range."
"supported, but only in the general sense that destroyers need some serious attention. they were fine when the only t2 ship was the intercepter. these days they are coffins unless flown extremely carefully (ie, warping out after shooting once or twice).major issues include:1) sig to ehp ratio is waaay off when compared to frigates and cruisers, let alone bc. 2) dps is too low to kill a t2 frigate quickly (even if you spend as much on your destroyer as that frigate costs), yet speed and slots do not permit tackling your target. alpha is only acceptable on the thrasher, due to arties with damage bonus, and this is the reason that ship is popular. 3) you cannot afford to use a mwd to counteract point #2, and tackle/dps at close range, because it blows your sig up to bs size and you are quickly instapopped. once you realize you're locked by an enemy hac/bs and about to be vaporized, your agility is too low to abort your run and escape--you just die.4) your range, even with double small-gun range, is insufficient to play escort to larger ships. it takes enormous work to make any destroyer other than the cormorant shoot out to 30km. the rails, which are used with longer-range ammo for the cormorant to accomplish this, can be tanked by an interceptor at that range. 30km is the \"magic number\", because that's the normal, un-overheated point range for the tackling interceptor line. 5) the -25% rof penalty is supposed to make the ships into \"alpha\" creatures, but that doesn't work anymore unless you're using small artillery (which do alpha rather well against frigate-sized targets) with a damage bonus. the penalty accomplishes this by trading cost (more guns) for that alpha. but since most ships have more hp now than when the destroyers were first introduced, and the proliferation of t2 ships and equipment render the destroyer so fragile, it just doesn't work and needs to be re-thought.6) following some deep thinking about how to accomplish the purpose of the destroyer class, there needs to be another hull model (or at least another ship) introduced for each race. destroyer is the only t1 class that has one (1) ship in its category. even haulers have 2 or more t1 ships (using different models), though the differences are often too small to matter to pilots!comments on specific destroyers:a) coercer -- i love this ship. it's sexy-looking, uses lasers, and you can actually sqeeze some dps (but not alpha) out of it if you make it a complete \"glass-cannon\". you used to be able to get 30km range from it if you rigged it into a 40-mil ship (which i did), and really surprise arrogant inti pilots, but the locus nerf killed that. coercer does not need another mid-slot. it needs a 60m sig radius, removal of the rof penalty, reduction of turrets to 6, and movement of one high slot to lows. could also use about 30 more cpu, but dropping the number of guns would help with this.b) cormorant -- good in its role, which is (very) light sniper. it cannot do anything else, however, and rail alpha at range is a joke. if you attempt to tank it, you sacrifice range and damage and become completely irrelevent, except as 20 seconds of distraction for one (1) enemy cruiser. cormorant also needs 60m sig radius, removal of the rof penalty, 6 turrets, and movement of one high slot to low. fitting should be reviewed. c) catalyst -- you can actually get a small amount of damage out of this ship as well, if you go with the \"glass cannon\" approach. it's actually almost as well-regarded in some circles for this as the thrasher, because you can mwd, point, and pray. that can get you a kill on a t2 frigate, before someone notices and vaporizes you. this ship needs, again, 60m sig radius, removal of the rof penalty, 6 guns, movement of 1 high slot to low, and switching of the falloff bonus for a rof or damage bonus. (really... falloff for hybrids? wtf?)<continued>"
"<continued>d) thrasher -- universally regarded as the best destroyer out there because of the damage bonus, slot layout, artillery alpha, and speed + smaller sig radius. in other words, almost everything. this ship needs little help. what should be done is to harmonize with the other changes without nerfing it, or namely: decrease sig radius to 55m, drop the rof penalty, reduce turrets to 6, and move one high slot to low. review the fitting stats accordingly. the thrasher alpha would actually decrease, unfortunately, even with adding another gyrostabilizer, but it would more than benefit from increased dps.----in other points, the destroyer class as a whole needs a dedicated, t2 anti-light support ship capable of keeping af and interceptors off larger bc and bs. it needs to be gun-based, not missile (unlike the interdictors--excepting the minmatar one, again!), and it needs to be a new class--not an \"interdictor\". interdictors die instantly because of their super-dangerous role (bubbling) to an enemy fleet. an actual anti-support ship does not need to be saddled with that burden.--krum"
"destroyers need love indeed. a lot!it says enough that 99% of the new players are advised to skip the destroyers and to skill towards cruisers instead.edit to check the support-box"
"they need either there dps increased, so in the short amount of time they do survive they actually do some damage, or effective hp increase. since the ships are cheap, i think making them high-dps boats with paper armour would be interesting, therefore i support the idea of getting rid of rof penalty. catalysts and comorant do need more powergreed, all other ships can fit all high-caliber guns, includiong coercer and thrasher (another destroyers), so why are catalysts and comorant so handicapped? there fore support here as well.extra slot would make them more effective.therefore full support. that's my question as well, i also don't get that.yon krum- most of your ideas correspond with that of the topicks author, except for the author whants to make all destroyers glass canons with high-dps, and you try to adjust there slot layout so that they actually survive for a while, but reduce there dps by reducing guns. those are 2 different directions, but whichever is chosen would solve the current situation."
"not quite correct, actually: the coercer needs substantial fitting mods in order to fit either medium pulse lasers or medium beam lasers (the high-caliber small guns, not the cruiser-sized ones). mostly it lacks cpu to fit them, though if you use a mwd you run out of grid as well... but if you're fitting a mwd you last a maximum of 30 seconds, so why do it? the thrasher, otoh, can fit a set of 6x 280mm artillery cannons and still have enough cpu/grid for decent sniping mods (and two salvagers). its damage when you do this is slightly superior to the smaller-caliber cannons.i love for the destroyers to be able to make use of the more powerful tier of small guns--would make sense, after all, since they're supposedly so much larger than frigates! that tier of guns, by the way, is generally only usable by cruisers down-gunning (looking at you, thorax!), or t2 ships. destroyers really need both. they should be terrifying ship to frigates, and last long enough to cruisers to be able to warp out unless tackled. as it is, they don't.my suggestions are a bit more subtle... dropping the sig radius to an average of 60 would reduce damage from larger guns by 25%, dispensing with the rof penalty is a 25% dps bonus, which only offsets the lost damage of reducing guns to 6. but! moving a high slot to a low on each ship enables them to either devote that to a damage mod, or a tanking mod (cormorant could go with a dcu). it's more flexibility, frankly.i don't, honestly, think the game needs more glass cannons at the small scale. destroyers however are so underused and useless that they make the old stealth bombers looks like flavor-of-the-month ships! so, if a change did make them decent cannons, i'd not refuse it--because i love them so.... but i'd hope a t2 space-superiority version would add more survivability along with that firepower.--krum"
"fully endorsed.i love destroyers of all races except the lackluster catalyst (lol, falloff bonus???). unfortunately they're easily outclassed by a t1 frigate (i get kills regularly against thrashers using a plated rifter).signature far too large.hitpoints far too low.rof nerf reduces dps to frig levels.for the coercer... need 1 more mid, at the very least. they're the highest raw dps destroyer going but can't pin anything in place with only 1 mid. thus... get almost no kills without being in a blob."
"supported.i think it's more important that the slots be fixed to be honest, especially the coercer and cormorants mid and low slots respectively. the only ships in the game to be restricted to a single slot in any category are a handful of the really light t1 frigates, so it's frankly ridiculous that ships a whole class heavier than frigates have such strict limits. the coercer especially can't even fit an ab and a warp disruptor at the same time, while at the moment the cormorant has to use its sole low slot for a micro auxiliary power core if you want to fit any decent weapons on it."
"destroyers are awesome already.non-minmatar interdictors however..."
"destroyer costs 4 times the price of a rifterin many intances it can loose to a rifter.it gets instapoped by anything bigger then a frigate. sure they are fine."
"good ideas."
"yah, i got that on my mind, too. if third-forces were to have a big enough impact, then of course the fw enemy would be wanting to utilise their allies... and should be able to.aside from that, looks great. edit: forgot the thumb-button"
"fail"
"what you don't get is that ccp has continuously enhanced the problem of blobbing. now for most ship classes, this is bad, but not impossible to work against. for motherships especially, it is.inside of a cyno jammed system, motherships do fine in their intended use. outside of that, they cannot hold up well at all. unlike titans, mom's don't have a dd saving grace. they are an on field tool if you want their full effect. the problem with that is, 10 dreads focused fire can pop a mom quite fast. 20 dreads can break it fast even if it's receiving significant remote reps. 30 or more dreads and you're talking 30 second death.yes, it's a problem with blobing.but more to the point, for a mom, it's also a show of it's flaws. titans to a lesser extent unless they forgo the proposed changes in which case they'll be just as suceptable. moms cannot hold up at all on the front lines outside of very isolated situations. they are far from useful in any capital engagements, and they're just a joke when used outside of a jammed system.now i differ from most. i hate remote repair, especially on carriers with their huge range boost. i think spider tanking is a shameful cry for why people choose to blob in cap warfare. i would rather mom's get a significant bonus to personal tanking to make up for their lacking atm."
"yes guys, battle bestowers to the front lines, moms to the back.i always spend 15-40 bil on a ship so that it can pos park. get a fricking clue dude, all ships have a huge issue with hp and blobbing, moms just get the ass end of it. so you can either petition here for ccp to revamp their entire failure of a combat and 0.0 system immediately, or you can ask for a mom/titan revamp... i think the latter is more reasonable baby step."
"[proposal] increase npc belt bounties 0.0"
"agreed.i'd like to have audit log giant secures as well.also, the ability to repackage station hangars without that stupid '3 week old' log crap getting in the way after i've emptied them. just give me a warning: repackaging the station [whatever] will displace all items into the [corporate hangar with the least access rights] or your personal hangar.also: \"this container contains items that have been locked down. please unlock these items to repackage the station [whatever]\". if a person can unlock the items, they can steal them anyway once they access the container."
"yes yes a million times yes."
"u didnt know how it work, right? in reality"
"since no capital can use a covert cyno... i don't see why this could not be possible."
"it is possible to make more isk in the safety of empire by grinding l4's than ratting and \"helping concord\" in 0.0. i always tought eve was a game of \"risk and reward\". the more risk u take the more u get out of it. why isnt this applied on the npc's in 0.0? it is time to increase the bounties in certain area's."
"yes."
"yes"
"no.empire 'rats' in missions already have their bounties 'nerfed' considerably, by upwards of 50%. on the up side you can, in relative safety, loot and salvage all of your wrecks while that is not always possible or feasible in nullsec. so, if you loot & salvage your nullsec wrecks you still make more on ratting alone than an empire carebear.and no, i don't rely on missions for income... i might run 1 or 2 a month for some faction ammo."
"-1.0 true sec space is fine, -0.01 not. in general ccp should make all high true sec 0.0 better."
"some regions have entire consellations that are between -0.01 and -0.15 sec. belt ratting makes about 12 mil per hour of bounties. some would say well go mining then, but thats also impossible. the other solution is plexing. there aint enough around since wormholes were invented. so basicly its wasted space that nobody can use or its used out of boredom, and a waste of time from a economic point of view"
"0.0 ratting need improvement. less stupid grinding more fun. also too many wrecks to salvage/loot for solo. npc's should be more intelligent these days too, we're living 2009. furthermore chaining is stupid profit should stay same but rats should spawn more intelligently. and yeah also make ratting in \"low\" 0.0 more profitable.i support general idea of making ratting more interesting."
"right problem, wrong solution.isk inflation in the game is already a huge problem - while i agree that l4 highsec missions paying more than 0.0 ratting doesn't make sense on the risk-reward scale, this is not the answer.nerf missions - don't boost ratting."
"well since there are bs rats in low sec i see no other option than boosting ratting. im not sure but i think the lower 0.0 sec sytems (-0.01/-0.15) are as good as the good low sec (0.1 sec ) systems. maybe both options will be a good idea. boosting 0.0 bounties and nerfing l4's bounties. lets get the \"risk vs reward\" more inline with each other"
"who sayd inflation is a problem? i have never seen ccp saying that. we suggest features, and point out imbalance, ccp makes them real and solves problems where it can and deems nessesary. i stopped ratting in null-sec because i make more money on lvl 4 missions, don't have to do 20 jumps to get to the place and back at the end of the day, and it absolutely safe, in addition i get standing and loyality points that i can spend on alot of interesting stuff.ratting needs a boots.when you kill pirats, you recieve loyality points towards concord. give them something interesting in lp stores, something exclusive. (look at concord bs for example) make pirats drop more loot, like guns, that will be supply of meta lvl items for null-sec.increase bounties.i always salvage them, i use murm with mwd, 4 close-range guns, dual repp tank.my drones do more then half of dps.i have a tractor beam and a salvager.i salvage bs and bc wrecks. i still make less then in missions, not even taking lp into account. so yes, in needs a boost. on the other hand you need a well-fitted bs to do lvl 4's well.you can do ratting in a speed tanked crouser. (bc is perfect) so i suggest making the rats in null-sec tougher, increasing amount of high-bounty balleships, make them smarter- not sure if we whant them to be as smart as sleepers, but they should be smarter for sure. my personal opinion is that every ai should be as smart as sleepers, they just should shoot drones less. (with t2 drones it's expencive)"
"i would welcome this. some ships could use a lil flare.. as for the logos i do not think they are needed. many ships already have their faction logo on them if you look hard enough.. i know my hyper and legion do. the idea to give a choice of color schemes whould be nice though."
"suported,- \"anyone who dosint support is to poor to afford a comp with good specs\""
"i wanted to reply and to support but i made a new topic :danyway, this idea got my support, just like last time."
"i agree with this, the idea is super old and the additional server load would indeed be tragic. i also think that the need to personalise your ship is not really in keeping with eves military themes."
"full supportwe should be able to choose our hips colour cheme from few pre-defined layouts, many games have that option. would barely add serverload, if they whant to decrease serverload they should crash mothership into jita station."
"spies anyone?cloaked ships are cloaked."
"supported for this very reason!"
"how about a tickbox option to show yourself or not to show yourself (to fleet only) instead? itd be like \"broadcast signal to fleet\" or something so you'd show up as an empty purple bracket."
"that'd be great, but that's only one way to do it. seriously people, i really don't see how this would break balance.it just makes no sense to me that you can't even see (not visually, not on scanner, not in the overview) cloaked ships that are on your own side (in your corp or in your fleet). there's just no way to maneuver a gang of cloaked ships properly if you can't even see them!"
"quoted for truth."
"if fleet members can see them, they must be broadcasting something. if they are broadcasting something, it makes sense that ships not in the friendly fleet could also find them. cloaking is currently balanced. it doesn't need boosted, it doesn't need nerfed."
"it's neither a nerf nor a buff, it's common sense.you could say that cloaking fields all have a coded frequency, and that your fleet has the key to see through it. you don't have to broadcast anything."
"how is adding an ability that isn't currently available not a buff?perhaps we're working with different definitions of the word buff..."
"so improving visual appearence of lasers would be a buff to energy weapon? how is making it comfortable a buff? it's like saying that if they make it so refining window does not lagg it's a buff to refining."
"it's not a buff because it doesn't add any advantage. it's only practical and logical to do it.stealth bombers wouldn't be able to deal more damage or cloak longer that way. it doesn't change any of their attributes either. so this is not a buff.it's like calling an option to hide all cans in space a \"container nerf\". come on. think about it for more than one second..."
"i've never had an issue with this and would rather my fleet mates didn't see where i was. i've been able to effectively coordinate stealth ops with good communication."
"why wouldn't you want your fleet to see where you are anyway? how would this change your gameplay?it's one thing to vote a suggestion down because it would break your own gameplay somehow, but it's another to vote it down just because you personally wouldn't benefit from it or wouldn't use it."
"if cloaked fleet members not seeing each other's location is a disadvantage, the removal of that disadvantage is adding an advantage. not all buffs are pure numbers. the ability to know where cloaked fleet members are could be a significant tactical advantage for a recon, black-ops, stealth bomber group. it's a buff and it's not needed."
"if you want to do something in this vein, say that the reason for the decloak is sensor emissions from the object you're near being too strong to evade, and since cloaked ships don't do the sensor emissions thing, cloaked ships don't detarget each other. it'd also mean you could finally remove the asinine gas-cloud decloaks. seeing each other on overview, though, seems kind of silly."
"i guess you do not get the idea of spies in your fleet compromising your position.you want to have the ability to see your cloaked mate for your fleet ops so you can coordinate a sb strike? ok stop step back and think about it. you have spies in fleet. most of the time anyway. ok always. now what stops the spies from outing the cloakers. answer me that. what prevents the cloaker to be compromised?no absolutely not."
"if you always have spies in your fleet, then your corporation really has a problem. spying is part of the game, and having this feature or not wouldn't change it in any way. there's a ton of ways to counter spying (for example, force every member in your corp to give their api key so you can list any alt not in your corp). i don't think this is a valid argument, sorry.besides, if you would only see cloaked ships in your own fleet, then all you'd have to do if you want to move without being \"stooled\" by a spy is to not be in a fleet, get in range of your target, and fleet in the last second if you fleet needs to warp on you or something."
"this is hilarious! too ****ing many people complain about ****!the idea is great and make coordination easier. either have a broadcast location or \"show bracket for fleet members\" in gang menu."
"right now, we have a pretty diverse game. new features are not something we need.what we need are all the major bugs to be fixed.my list of major bugs (feel free to add on):probing problems, well documented on the forumsselected item failing to refresh unless you click on it again.freezing at session change while still being vulnerable and logged onlight electron blaster ii still has no model (aesthetic but really annoying!)lag in fwstreamline serveruser interface bugs (too many to list)all the crazy things that happens during lag (some mods dont work while others do, ghost ships, you warp out, 3 years later you die and your wreck is 11 au from whoever shot you)doomsdays, while some consider it op, should always work, so fix the \"oops it was a little laggy so my dd didnt work\" bugoverview ghosts and double-overview entries"
"gallente control towers have major graphical bugs when the camera is inside the shields (tower model flips upside down and stuff)."
"we dont need a fix we just need to kill you"
"minmatar ships being lackluster for the most part. majorly poor bs class."
"d'uh!it's just common sense."
"they've got a tough balance they have to hit.while i definitely agree that they need to worry about bug fixes first, if they don't continually introduce new mechanics/features, they start to see subscription numbers fall off. people (especially on eve-o) are gonna pitch fits about how things aren't working the right way no matter what, so if you give them shiney things to distract them, they're easier to deal with. that's my speculation anyhow."
"though maybe not entirely fit for this thread, some serious reworking of missioning might not be a bad idea, seen as the mission system in eve is the most boring i've ever encountered in any game ever..."
"fix before feature"
"ccp tried this once. they released a patch dedicated to fixing 100 of the most common bugs in the game. want to know how much positive feedback they got for it?zero.people don't tend to notice or enjoy minor bug fixes. right now, ccp seems to be splitting their focus on each expansion, one part introducing new content, the other fixing a major gameplay mechanic that was broken. they just fixed scanning, and a sovereignty fix is due out soon(tm) as well.i like how ccp is working on things as it is. sorry, but no support here."
"bunyip sums it up pretty well. not supported."
"qft.leave things as they are."
"a lot of bugs need to be fixed.new expansions and patches frequently contains too many bugs.it is time for fixes instead of new content."
"supported.lol at you didn<U+FFFD>t kill me i self destructed so you gain nothing argument. thats quite a poor mechanic. if i could decide self destructers should gain zero insurance isk since they also prevent the hostile fraction from looting(so both lose consideralbe amounts on isk in the end).last time i endet up with about 17 minutes straight shooting(only 3 bs and some hacs) to take down a archon, gess what i got a few miningdrones and a worthless wreck because it self destructed. a killmail is not to mutch for all the afford, you fielded your cap, you got beaten, you lose your cap, you get a losemail in your k\d ratio. simple as this."
"not supported. if the victim self destructs his ship, then the enemy didn't give the killing blow.no kill = no kill mail."
"fypnot supported."
"i actually have no issue with self destructs resulting in a loss of insurance for the ship. my insurance doesn't pay me if i blow up my car - they call that fraud and toss me in prison."
"true. perhaps maybe there could be a certain amount of time before drones are free game. say, 5 minutes."
"lol i would love to see that. people undocking in dominixes, droping anourmous amount of cheap t1 drones in jita and abanoding them, and dromes killing all the haulers and miners, and concord chasing every drone lolor hundreds of drones being abandonds at gates so that first person who jumps in get's slaughters before he knows what happened"
"supported on both counts."
"supported..... but i also rather like treelox's idea..."
"agree on the reconnect to drones.absolutely disagree on the drone stealing part. there needs to be some repurcussions for leaving in the middle of a mission and/or fight. it also provides a level of opportunism for other players and drones are not that expensive. what it seems like you wanna do is afk mission without consequence and that's not acceptable.slightly disagree with damage reporting for drones. i don't believe drones were ever intended to be a primary damage source, but more of a supplementary damage source. i have nothing to back that up, and am pretty sure it's something i heard somewhere at some time that i can't remember, so don't take that as fact. the more legitimate reason is that drones fire every 2 seconds - the notices that 5 drones would flash across the screen (even grouped as salvos) would be quite a bit to process and make it difficult to read the already-too-fast turret notices. while it would be nice to see how much damage they're doing, you can test that with a corpie - annoying, but not that hard to do. if there was a way to do this more passively (i.e. just show in logs with no notice), i'd be a bit more inclined to agree./not supported. trying to do too much in one ticket."
"reconnect to drones is exelent feature."
"seeing that the bug where the drones sometime aren't damaging the structures because they orbit too near and (probably) inside the structure and we have no way to know if the same is happening when we are fighting other ships, knowing what damage the drones are doing is mandatory. plus: rate of fire has been halved, making it 1 attack every 4 seconds, several months ago. at the same time damage has been doubled. sadly drone damage is mostly theorycraft as it can be calculated but not verified in real combat situations. seeing how they have a lot of bugs and they are a primary weapon for several ships hoping that they are working right is not the way to go."
"i like the idea of reporting drone information. my argument is that eve tends to be information overload quite a bit and this wouldn't help the problem. a configuration option in the journal or something would help.missed this - thanks for bringing it to my attention."
"yay"
"logistics definetly deserve their spot on the killboard as they often turn the tide of battles. i am not a logistics pilot but i was saved by them few times :)"
"hai naoko!"
"good idea, somehow ccp could modify the current coding to record a logistics repairing a friend in combat and on a kill mail, the same as if you assigned your drones to assist a friend in combat, and got on the kill mail. granted, assisting with drones does damage to the enemy, applying the same code used on the drones to the repairing module may be the easiest shortcut."
"1.0"
"1.0"
"+"
"nice"
"yes"
"absolutely"
"support"
"v.good idea. much needed ingame."
"+1logistics aggro mechanics really need loving"
"support"
"agreed"
"thumbs up! let healers be recognised."
"supporting this!!"
"my proposal is this.give the roqual an additional role, the ability to fit and use a capital moon harvester module when in industrial mode.restrict its use to a region around the warp in point of a moon, big enough away that it can be outside of the range of a death star but still be on grid for easy detection.the roqual would have the ability to do standard moon mining, and in the presence of a hostile pos it would cut off all material being gathered by a tower harvester, as it will be harvesting that material for itself. the objective of this proposal is as follows:allow smaller entities a slice of the moon harvesting pie which has been currently snapped up by larger entities and secured with death star poss.provide a more active mechanic for gathering moon material and requiring an alliance to actively patrol the moon pos empire to ensure nobody is stealing from them.make low sec and npc space more difficult for an alliance to guarantee a passive high profit income. ie far easier for a smaller group to secure access to a moon for a short period of time, multiple times dependant on their time zones.add a new tool to 0.0 warfare, and bring attrition back into play.get more caps out into the field and in harms way.ideas to toy with:make the industrial reconfiguration time could increase when the harvester is online. ie from 10 mins to 30 mins or more, meaning that the roqual reduces the fuel it consumes but more importantly increases its risk substantially. give a roqual based harvester a higher efficiency than a pos module meaning that an alliance may choose to deploy a roqual outside their towers to increase yields with the risk that roaming ops may catch a roqual outside shields. (or better yet multiple roquals on the same moon to increase the yield) allow an industrial configured roqual to be spider repped, meaning you might have a carrier escort (i dear say most roqual only go in to industrial mode inside pos shields currently so i dont know if they can already be remote repped in industrial mode.)with the requested changes to make moons deplete and generate new veins of ore, using a fleet of roquals to force a quicker depletion of a hostiles moon resource will make an interesting situation."
"supporting my own topic"
"the problem i see here is the poor bastard who sits in the rorqual the whole time. its a good idea \"in theory\", but talk about suck factor for the rorqual pilot. this is a game for fun, not more boring time sinks.--isaac"
"please do this. large station lists can be quite cumbersome.please visit your user settings to re-enable images."
"i dunno if that image properly captures the hassle."
"mining revampthe overall concept here is to remove the very passive game play nature of mining for a more hands on approach. i realize this will ruffle more than a few feathers. the general approach here is to reduce the quantity of rocks and belts in a star system for a more realistic and more thoughtful approach to mining and resource farming. rather than have 500 rocks in a system of various types, instead you might have 10-20 asteriods or comets in a close proximity to mine, each containing various levels of all resources.how do we do this? ive never understood the need to have 50 veldspar roids in a belt and 10 belts in a system. not only do asteroid belts not fit in realistically with how a solar system works, functionally they are terrible and boring and overly passive approach to gaming. especially when we look at high sec, we see that mining is very much a set it and forget it part of this game. most of the work in mining comes from gamers hauling ores rather than actually mining them, and lets be honest, hauling isnt the epitome of fun in game.so the idea is to condense mining into much larger, more complex rocks. added to this is a real drilling technique where mining almost becomes a puzzle of maximum utility. rocks of different types would have different density and pockets of any or all types of ores. your own approach to mining that rock determines the actual value and resources you derive from it. 2 different approaches to how to mine the rock can easily result in totally different outcomes. whats even more fascinating about this style of mining is that it could be a great reason to create temporary wars of resources much like and unlike moon mining today. imagine finding a rock or concentration of rocks of unimaginable wealth hidden away in one small corner of space. they wont last forever, so the first and fastest to this area will be the largest benefactors. in this new format, there would be 2 basic kinds of rocks similar to real asteroid belts. 1 type of rock would be the standard, dense, solid rock we see today. but its design would be that of quadrants and layers. i leave it up to the game designers to form the actual system, but essentially, you choose to mining a spot of the rock. as you deplete that spot, you go deeper into the rock uncovering more and varied types of ores. obviously with mining, theres waste, so as you choose the path to mining the rock, it affects what is wasted. the 2nd type of rock would be a cluster of smaller rocks. in this scenario, theres less waste and in a lot of ways less skill required to mine through the asteroid as its already broken into small chunks held together by gravity only. theres also the higher likelihood of more mixed minerals within the conglomerate of rocks. the trick with these rocks is not so much about waste as it is about time. how do you remove the junk rocks fast to get to the higher value. in either type of rock, there has to be waste. waste would essentially be junk dirt, ice, or whatever that cannot be effectively refined or salvaged and would therefore be discarded. pockets of waste would play into just how fast areas could be mined.this same idea could be translated into comets and/or ice harvesting."
"miningso we know how the rocks are setup and the basic premise to mining, but what does this actually mean for the guy training to be a miner. well skills are very important part of mining. right now, all skills really do is increase quantity mined and reprocessed. they really do nothing to enhance your actual talent at mining much like accuracy, falloff, orbital velocity and ship speeds affect missiles and turrets. so the new concept is to have skills help with scanning and breaking down the new rocks. astrogeology for instance my help you more accurately scan densities in a rock to get a better determination for what is in it. mining might help you break down the rock into smaller portions so as to help you speed up mining and path creation. advanced mining skills might help to improve time or gain from x, y, or z type of ore in the rock.. t2 miners might help you focus on areas of the rock better so as to not disturb surrounding ore and waste as much. strip miners might very high speed, but with wrecking consequences to the surrounding ores in a rock. etc. ultimately, what youd see is short and long durations of mining. sometimes it might be 10 seconds; sometimes it might be 5 minutes. it would be up to both the player and the rock to determine the exact nature of the mine.this idea would also help transcend this game into system wide asteroid belts, and more defined industry talent. it would also add to mining a level of experience over skillpoints. it wouldnt be about maxing characters skills to net the greatest amount of harvest, instead it would be as much about his understanding of his trade. very generic simplified rock scan.overall tldr:remove the redundancy and repetitive nature of mining. no more waiting 1 or 3 minutes til a beam finishes only to repeat. no more fields of tons of the same rock, but rather fewer rocks and more technique on how to harvest the goodies. by the very nature of this, rather than have ore types be the determinant between empire and 0.0, i'd rather see asteriod size be a more relevant factor. smaller size, lower quantity due to high mining fatigue in empire, more size, more complexity, more reward in 0.0."
"well, you were right about one thing, this is going to ruffle some feathers.i agree that mining needs a change, but i am not sure this is that change. i am withholding an opinion until i see some more discussion at the moment.one point to consider though. you cannot make mining too skill intensive or too hard to learn to do effectively, or you'll lose a lot of new players that want to try it early on. as it stands right now, if i can fly a frigate and have mining 1, i can mine. which means that with most characters, i can mine right after the starter tutorials. whatever changes happen to mining need to leave that intact so that brand new characters have a chance to make a start for themselves without shooting at things, if that's what they want."
"anyone can mine with lvl 1 skills in this system too. the only real difference is how the rock is mined for a new guy. he might take a little longer to get through a pocket, he might waste more. but at the same time, he can learn how to increase his load even with lvl 1 skills by planning out how to mine a rock, how to map concentrations in the rock.i mean, what's the real difference b/t a thorax mining currently, and one mining in this new system when it comes to take. ultimately, you're going to mine, it's more about efficiency and competition.imagine 5-10 guys mining the same rock rather than the same belt. it would be more strategy based how to mine said rock b/c their actions would ultimately dictate yours.i mean, how is that idea not more fun and interesting than sitting in a field and waiting 9 minutes for a hulk to fill up."
"an interesting proposal, but it might be a little bit too much of a minigame. remember what the targeting system in eve looks like - it's slow, clunky, generic, and has a craptastic ui attached. you're trying to turn it into something out of red faction, which sounds really cool, but i'm not sure the game can handle it well. if the game can do it(and do it in such a way that it doesn't freak out the newbies) i'm all for it, but i don't think it can."
"wow sank like a lead ballon thanks anyway for your support izo, appreciated"
"support"
"support"
"support"
"i support this."
"support"
"the harbinger has 7 turrets.the brutix has 7 turrets.the drake has 7 launchers.give the hurricane its 7th turret back please."
"naturally i support my own proposal."
"why?i mean, in all due seriousness, you haven't actually made an argument."
"you toook into account the fact that huriicane is the only battlecrouser with 8 weapons?i don't fly hurricane, but from what i saw and what i fought hurricane is nowhere near being underpowered. i don't see need for a beef."
"i currently do fly a hurricane for level 3 missions, and so far i haven't met a mission i can't tank. i literally fly into the middle of the mission space, and start destroying enemy ships one after another while they try and get close enough to shoot back. i get close to 260 dps from it (which is probably be a little low, but i tend to overtank), and i agree, it's really quite an effective ship the way it is."
"no. hurricanes are pretty badass as is."
"outdamaged by the brutix and harbinger.outtanked by the drake.the small speed increase and \"versatility\" from split weapons do not make a good ship.adding a 7th turret would bring it in line with the other tier 2 bc and the brutix"
"it is outdamaged by britux because that's highest dps bc in game.drake is the tankiest bc in game.hurricane has reasonable tank and reasonable dps. drake has good tank but it has **** dps.britux has good dps but **** tank.hurricane is in the middle. and it speedtanks bs's better then any other bs"
"dude... if you're looking for damage and have tackling support, go for 6 turrets, 2 launchers, a shield buffer and 3 gyros. the hurricane is like the dominix, it's extremely versatile, it can be anything you want... just fit it decently"
"the cane is a great ship, and needs no additional love. not supported."
"true.true. on paper, yes. when fighting in falloff - no.only if you're doing it very wrong.again, only if you're doing it wrong.yes, it is a bit faster - but not *that* much faster. dps wise, yes on paper, no when you consider how much dps is lost fighting even 50% into falloff.split weapon systems are an evil that would never have been introduced. would people have accepted the drake if it had a launcher removed but had a turret added?i disagree, giving it a bit more dps would bring it in line with the other battlecruisers, remember how much dps is lost when fighting in falloff."
"what are your dps-drake and tank-brutix fits? so far as i can tell, the drake is a brick that occasionally annoys you with missiles, and the brutix is a glass cannon, and i've never seen a fit for either that does much to fix their holes without throwing away all the advantages of using that hull in the first place."
"dps drake does shy 700dps."
"i know that part of being a good pilot is to be able to recognize the class of a ship just by its type name, but practically, i don't think anyone here knows every single ship type by heart.there are 30 ship classes in the game (if i counted correctly), some which are further divided into roles. however, all we have to differentiate them in the overview is the overview icon and the type column. the icon consists of a white bracket of different sizes for player ships, and red/gray crosses of different sizes for npc ships, and only give a hint on the size of the ship, not its class or role.you can also enable the \"type\" column, but since it's showing the whole string, it takes more space and most people choose not to show it at all because of that. you can also see the type of a ship by hovering your mouse on its target box itself, but you have to do it one by one and then remember which one was which.for new pilots, this can be a nightmare. this system was fine when the game started in 2003 since there was much less classes of ships (frigate, cruiser, battleship, industrial and shuttle. that was pretty much it).what i'm proposing is a new overview column that would display an abbreviation of the class/role of the ship in uppercase.for example:+---+----------+-------+-----------+----------------------------+|ic | distance | class | type | name |+---+----------+-------+-----------+----------------------------+|[ ]| 50 km | bc | hurricane | player 1 |+---+----------+-------+-----------+----------------------------+|[ ]| 51 km | bs | typhoon | player 2 |+---+----------+-------+-----------+----------------------------+|[] | 100 km | sb | hound | player 3 |+---+----------+-------+-----------+----------------------------+|[] | 121 km | frg | rifter | player 4 |+---+----------+-------+-----------+----------------------------+|[ ]| 134 km | int | claw | player 5 |+---+----------+-------+-----------+----------------------------+(note: i added the type column just so you can see which type each class matches with in my example.)hovering your mouse on one of the type would show a tooltip with the full class name. in addition, that same abbreviation could be overlaid on top of the target ico, or even completely replace the picture of the target.i'm sure some of you will argue that this would break game balance in some way, but i have yet to see how."
"i like candy."
"ahh, you already have that with the icon. one glance and you know the hull class you're facing: frig/dessy, cruiser/bc, bs/capital, industrial.granted, they can modify the icons *slightly* to make destroyers distinct from frigs, ect... but please, not another damnable column. the overview already takes up 30% of the screenspace or more."
"useless"
"not a bad idea, but this. that and i can't tell you how long me and the corpies have been going back and forth on the designation for battleships. the military folks still call 'em bbs rather than bss. damn blackbirds are messin it up for 'em."
"the icons are not different enough, and they don't tell you the class of the ship, only the hull size, and without a base for comparison you can't tell what size it is (i.e. someone mostly playing in high sec will have a hard time differentiating a battleship from a carrier if he never saw one). especially for player ships, it looks all the same to me, and i'm sure i'm not the only one. knowing the hull size alone is pointless when there are over 40 different player ships in the game. a t1 frigate will show the same icon as a t2 frigate, but the t2 one might rip you apart in seconds while the t1 one barely scratches you.as for the \"screenspace\", well, every column in the overview is optional, so if you don't want it, just don't check it.well, if ccp makes an official legend for all classes, that would settle it wouldn't it? there would be only one official naming convention for all classes.but calling battleships bb's is wrong regardless. where's the second b coming from anyway?what is? your comment? absolutely!"
"yet another feature that makes me want a moddable ui. that said, yeah, if they can do this without too much difficulty, i'm all for it. wouldn't use it myself, since i've got pretty much every class memorized, but i remember the days when i didn't and would have loved this feature."
"actually, me and many others do know what shiptype all the shipnames are connected with, aswell as a general idea of the capabilities and usual fighting style for it.i still can't see any reason for this not be there though, shouldn't be hard to implement, and doesn't hurt anyone, so it still gets a thumbs up from me."
"ishtar as many other gallente ships needs only some more cpu.bonuses are good."
"the ishtar should get more damage bonus to the drones instead of turret bonus. currenty with good skills u can get 450 dps out your drones. that is not high enough for a hac if it would be its role."
"i like my gun vexor, don't touch it."
"plexes should be non-resellable.they should only be possible to contract to different chars (alts)once a plex is sold it should not be possible to place a sell-order on it.this would create a real supply/demand situation.certain entitys buying plexes low for billions and then reselling at a higher price is only manipulation.manipulation is ok with normal ingame items but i doubt ccp had that in mind what is happening now with the plexes...."
"i disagree. a plex is an ingame item, and even if all i can do is contract it, that doesn't stop me from selling it for more than paid for it.no support"
"it's fair game. i don't see a problem with playing the market."
"belmarduk, your post has a serious problem.you did not explain why. what is wrong with the plex market and what is wrong with people making lots of isk in it?what would be gained from weird market regulations and why would it be beneficial to the game as a whole?"
"you have neglected to elaborate why manipulation is a bad thing for the plex market. especially when you think manipulation for normal items is fine. system seems fine as it is.keep the free market free.no support here."
"indeed. personally, i believe the suggestion stems from nothing more then a frustration that he cannot afford plex."
"shameless self-bump"
"yes please!"
"highly supported."
"+1 from me"
"i, of course, also want wis to come out now"
"only if we don't end up with a series like red vs. blue that starts out great, but lives way past it's prime and spirals downhill forever."
"we're sorry, something happened to our planck bubble stabilizer!500 - internal errorthe server was unable to process your request.support personel has been notified, no further action is needed____________________________________________________________________i propose that ccp fix their planck bubble stabilizer so it's possible to post on the forums without having to log in 15 times."
"at one time the various pirate factions enjoyed a substantial technological edge over the empire forces, which allowed them to maintain their factions in the lawlessness of nullsec with such strength that they could continually send frigate groups deep into empire space.unfortunately, that time has passed.the blood raiders have seen their cutting edge technical advantages supplanted by the introduction of force recons; huginn/rapier & web range, and the curse in capacitor denial range.it is time for the raiders to re-think their core technologies, as the sansha did years ago with considerable success. rather than competing with the min & amarr recon ships, it is time for them to re-think their entire approach.in what ways? there could be many options, but many are already covered by existing capsuleteer technologies.one idea:remove nos/neut ammount/range for a cloaked velocity bonus (using standard cloaks, not covert ops) of 30% per base racial ship skill level.remove web range bonus for laser bonuses: +7.5% rof to all lasers per base racial ship skill.base hull bonuses:+25% laser tracking, -50% to laser energy use20% resistance bonus to armor, bonus to armor amount.example (cruor)high: 5 (4/1)mid: 2low: 4velocity: 475sig rad: 27this is only an example of the many possible technologies that the blood raiders may approach. with the advent of t3 and the awakening of the talocan they might even embrace some of this new ... deadly power in their hull lines.but admit it, the blood raider faction ships are pretty poor with the advent of recons, except maybe for the bhaal with a fully faction/officer fit."
"i fail to see the reasoning for making a criminal organization that lives on the fringes of society more technologically advanced then the empire governments."
"or to nerf recons because they're more powerful than their faction counterparts. that doesn't make any sense. what would be interesting is if faction boats were a bit more prolific so that prices dropped."
"i agree that blood ships(and also guristas) are in need of some major work, but i don't think that this proposal is how to go about it. the problem with the blood ships is that the bonuses just don't work together at all, and force you to go in three different directions at once. it needs a set of bonuses that let you build a single ship while still using all of them and not having a weird frankenstein knockoff come out the other end. how about something like this?role bonus: +150% stasis webifier rangeamarr: +10% energy vampire/neutralizer transfer amount per levelminmatar: +10% stasis webifier effect per levelew support, with kronos webs, up-sized neuts, and everything hitting a 25km range off t2 gear. or if you want to get really crazy, you could try this:role bonus: energy vampires ignore target's current capacitor levelamarr: +5% (size) energy turret damage per levelminmatar: +5% (size) energy turret rate of fire per levelit's a bit wacky, but it gives us a bit of retro coolness on ships expensive enough that people won't exploit it to death like they did before, and it manages to justify why anyone would ever put lasers and nos/neut on the same ship. give each ship 2 utility highs(i'm thinking bhaalgorn gets 6 turrets, ashimmu gets 4, and cruor gets 2), and go to town. you can also replace the amarr bonus with armor resists just as easily. in any case, keep it faithful to how the faction normally does things(which in the blood's case is defined by energy drains), but make it a cohesive whole, instead of a grab bag."
"oh.. so there is a price level that automatically makes customer service viable? dude.. you may only pay 15 bucks a month but some of us have 3 and 4 accounts.. and have played since 2003 and 2004. i can tell you this... responding to your customers in a reasonable amount of time is not a strategy successful companies ignore.there might be a reason that for a long time there was alway over 40k logged in and now i see less than 25k more often than not."
"same here, out of like 10 petitions i had only 1 where i had to wait \"long\", don't remember how much, but it was under a week. i did not encounter any problems. responce time depends on also how you fill it in. no support."
"last petition took 6 days. the ones before that were as long if not longer (i think the longest was 8) before they were even looked at. i had a toon with a petition that i submitted in late 2007 that didn't get a reply for more than 4 months (don't know if i ever did, closed the account)."
"hm, same here. i don't think there's a lot that csm can do about this either. its kind of a staffing issue at ccp, rather then a game issue"
"do it ccp."
"logical, and a good idea overall."
"supported, easy and efficent fix."
"can you please seperate the analyze button from the rest of the buttons please. it is the most used and it is very annoying when you press recover all probes by accident.thx"
"it happened to me once, and i learned from my mistake. now i'm more careful.the window is wide enough as it is, so this is a no for me."
"i would propose to change the color of the probes bubble center (you know the cube with the arrow) or at least put a border line to make it more visible when the background has the same colors. the area where my char lives has the same colors and makes them invisible."
"world of warcraft players coming to eve trying to impose and force their easymode and casual mindset on everyone of us = no."
"no."
"warning: lots of words in this post. beware of hurf.let me preface this by saying i've never lost sp to a non-upgraded clone, although i've had some close calls, so this should be interpreted as a criticism rather than whining:the clone/sp system is a terrible, bad, terribad, horrible, horribad, horriterribad, violates-the-first-thing-they-teach-you-in-game-design-courses mechanic that serves no purpose except to act as a disproportionately punishing \"gotcha\" for players that forget to click two buttons on the way out of the station.let's pretend that eve introduced a new feature where you had to go through a start-up sequence every time you undocked, and if you forgot to activate a module during that sequence, it's non-functional until you re-dock or activate it in-flight (one by one due to the capacitor cost). sure it might be more \"atmospheric\" and add more rp or world-building or whatever, but in practice it's nothing but frustration with no plausible positive effect on the gameplay experience.but, you say, other things in eve cause frustration too, like losing your hulk or bpo-carrying shuttle to a suicide ganker in empire. we don't eliminate those things, why eliminate this? the answer is that those are actions taken by other players, which means that while you might be dissatisfied with the result, there's another player somewhere who is proportionately satsified and having fun, whereas the clone mechanic benefits no one in any way shape or form. the other player doesn't know you forgot to upgrade your clone, so they get no satisfaction out of it (as opposed to knowing you lost umpty billion isk in mods and cargo from the killmail).the fact that you forgot to upgrade your clone makes your game experience frustrating while providing no tangible or intangible benefit to anyone. in addition, the penalty for a non-upgraded clone is sometimes weeks of training time. that's an entirely disproportionate mechanic for something so easily forgotten.in conclusion, this is probably one of the least defensible game design decisions up there with pos mechanics and doomsdays, and the only muppets who could conceivably support it are those who blindly reject any and every possible change without any critical thought."
"by this logic any mistake that causes a loss in pve is a terrible mechanic that causes nothing but frustration and it should be removed from the game. forgot to activate your tanking mods while those rats attacked you? well.. no other player got the fun or benefit from it so it's a pointless loss and a terrible game mechanic! right?!?!?wrong. it's also wrong when applied to clone renewals."
"aargh, something went wrong here"
"please tell me more about these \"effects\" you speak of."
"they have those already. they're called target disruptors. cause you can't shoot what you can't lock."
"as much as i like this idea, the amount of server load it would create in even small fleet fights would be overwhelming. this works for smaller games like freelancer because fights tend to occur in way smaller numbers, whereas in eve, numbers are- well, big."
"i like this idea. i think servers could handle it we are not living in 90.there are plenty of mmo who support this and they dont have so much trouble. and most of the eve lag issues are bind to completly different things."
"please look into a re-examination of t2 ammo nerfs, particularly on projectile ammunition types.in relation to the overpriced, overabundant faction ammo (which is overpriced due mostly to lp reward requirements make it rather expensive) t2 utterly fails.original thread: balance t2 ammoalso:considering the latest dev blog from ccp diagoras and the ensuing flame fest concerning minmatar ships, a stronger emphasis should be placed on examining minmatar battleships specifically and minmatar ships as a whole.destroyers should also be examined. currently they are too large (sig radius) lack effective hp to fulfill their role (anti-frigate. a plated frigate can out tank & out-dps them). some have very pointless bonuses (catalyst), or too few slots (coercer) to be useful in anything other than a blob. cormorant lacks the pg/cpu to fit the weapon class usable by all other destroyers (largest variant frigate weapon... i.e. 150mm rail). likewise the 25% reduction in rof renders having so many guns pointless against the hull's primary target (frigates).re-examine split-weapon systems, especially on ships where only one weapon receives a bonus. typhoon split-weapon & lack of focused defense type makes it a poor overall ship. many faction ships likewise suffer a half & half weapon system where only one weapon is given any bonus and neither weapon is the ship's focal specialization. example: 2 turret, 2 missile and receiving only a turret bonus."
"[x] the ninja salvager should be aggro'd to the mission runner after the first wreck is salvaged, because the mission runner owns the wrecks, and i feel that ccp needs to change the current dynamic.i may as well join the great debate, not that my vote here will change anything... ninja salvaging is too much reward for too little risk. ninja salvaging is the closest thing eve has to an automatic \"i win\" button; therefore, it sucks. (the second closest is l4 missions, but that's another topic. )"
"while an interesting idea, it seems like a lot of development effort for only a visual gain. i'm all for prettier visuals but especially since you dont have as much manual fighting/dogfighting in eve as in some of those examples, i think the overall effect wont be quite as grand.plus, i think ccp is already working on upgrading pew pew graphics."
"i *do* like the idea of the station docking comptroller having a brown stain in his pants when he sees ships exchanging high energy at the discharge end of his catapult... and saying \"hell no you can't dock here!\"forcing station huggers who undock to plink at someone and then redock to warp to another station is the ultimate \"it's fixed!\", especially if stargates do the same... no more jumping, shooting, and running back to the gate to jump out after the timer rolls over.if you want to chicken out, tank and dock/jump. otherwise shoot and hope you can get off the station before the blob that just jumped in warps to you."
